18712504	In recent years, polysaccharide-based films have been developed for many applications. Some of these are in the pharmaceutical industry, where the adhesion of microorganisms to surfaces is a concern. After adhesion of a microorganism to a solid surface has taken place, the subsequent biofilm formed can act as a vehicle for spreading infections. The aim of this study is to compare the bacterial adhesion of E. coli and S. aureus from a contaminated solid model (Tryptone Soya Agar) to a range of polysaccharide-based films. These polysaccharide-based films consist of different natural starches (potato, cassava, wheat, pea and rice) and synthetic polymers hydroxyl-propyl cellulose (HPC) and carboxyl methyl cellulose (CMC)). The surface energy parameters of the films were calculated from the contact angle measurements by the sessile drop method. Apolar and polar liquids (water, formamide and hexadecane) and the Lifshitz-Van der Waals/acid-base (LW/AB) approach were used according to the method of Van Oss, Chaundhury and Good. The surface properties of the films were also correlated to the microbial adhesion. This indicated that, for both E. coli and S. aureus, the surface roughness did not affect the microbial adhesion. Only gamma(sAB) had any correlation with the microbial adhesion and gamma(sLW) was almost constant for all the various polysaccharide films tested. In addition, the electron-donor properties of the materials, exhibited via gamma(s+), were positively correlated with the adhesion of S. aureus but not with E. coli. This was in agreement with the results of the MATS (Microbial Adhesion To Solvents) test performed on the two bacteria. This revealed that only S. aureus presented an electron-acceptor characteristic.
18712516	The cross compatible wild relatives of crops have furnished valuable genes for crop improvement. Understanding the genetics of these wild species may enhance their further use in breeding. In this study, sequence variation of the nuclear Lhs1 gene was used to investigate the population genetic structure and gene flow of Oryza rufipogon and O. nivara, two wild species most closely related to O. sativa. The two species diverge markedly in life history and mating system, with O. rufipogon being perennial and outcrossing and O. nivara being annual and predominantly inbreeding. Based on sequence data from 105 plants representing 11 wild populations covering the entire geographic range of these wild species, we detected significantly higher nucleotide variation in O. rufipogon than in O. nivara at both the population and species levels. At the population level the diversity in O. rufipogon (Hd = 0.712; theta (sil) = 0.0017) is 2-3 folds higher than that in O. nivara (Hd = 0.306; theta (sil) = 0.0005). AMOVA partitioning indicated that genetic differentiation among O. nivara populations (78.2%) was much higher than that among O. rufipogon populations (52.3%). The different level of genetic diversity and contrasting population genetic structure between O. rufipogon and O. nivara might be explained by their distinct life histories and mating systems. Our simulation using IM models demonstrated significant gene flow from O. nivara to O. rufipogon, indicating a directional introgression from the annual and selfing species into the perennial and outcrossing species. The ongoing introgression has played an important role in shaping current patterns of genetic diversity of these two wild species.
18713313	* Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is a host for Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), which causes powdery mildew, and for the rice blast pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae. It has previously been shown that Rar1, initially identified in a mutational screen as being required for Mla12-specified Bgh-resistance, also controlled pathogenic growth of M. oryzae in barley. Here, we tested whether the rom1 mutation (restoration of Mla12-specified resistance), which restored resistance against Bgh in a susceptible rar1-2 genetic background, also influences the interaction between barley and M. oryzae. * Disease severity after infection with M. oryzae was analysed on rar1-2 mutants and rar1-2 rom1 double mutants. Microscopy and northern analysis were used to gain insight into cellular and molecular events. * On rar1-2 rom1 double mutant plants, the number of M. oryzae disease lesions was increased in comparison to the wild-type and the rar1-2 mutant which correlated with augmented epidermal penetration. However, a decrease in the lesion diameter, apparently conditioned in the mesophyll, was also observed. * These results highlight the impact of Rom1 in basal defence of barley against different pathogens. Importantly, a tissue-specific function for Rom1 with contrasting effects on epidermal and mesophyll defence was demonstrated.
18713361	The present study aims to identify the narrow spectral bands that are most suitable for characterizing rice biophysical parameters. The data used for this study come from ground-level hyperspectral reflectance measurements for five rice species at three levels of nitrogen fertilization during the growing period. Reflectance was measured in discrete narrow bands between 350 and 2,500 nm. Observed rice biophysical parameters included leaf area index (LAI), wet biomass and dry biomass. The stepwise regression method was applied to identify the optimal bands for rice biophysical parameter estimation. This research indicated that combinations of four narrow bands in stepwise regression models explained 69% to 83% variability for LAI, 56% to 73% for aboveground wet biomass and 70% to 83% for leaf wet biomass. An overwhelming proportion of rice information was in a particular portion of near infrared (NIR) (1,100-1,150 nm), red-edge (700-750 nm), and a longer portion of green (550-600 nm). These were followed by the moisture-sensitive NIR (950-1,000 nm), the intermediate portion of shortwave infrared (SWIR) (1 650-1,700 nm), and another portion of NIR (1,000-1,050 nm).
18713364	Plant mechanical strength is an important agronomic trait of rice. An ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS)-induced rice mutant, fragile plant 2 (fp2), showed morphological changes and reduced mechanical strength. Genetic analysis indicated that the brittle of fp2 was controlled by a recessive gene. The fp2 gene was mapped on chromosome 10. Anatomical analyses showed that the fp2 mutation caused the reduction of cell length and cell wall thickness, increasing of cell width, and the alteration of cell wall structure as well as the vessel elements. The consequence was a global alteration in plant morphology. Chemical analyses indicated that the contents of cellulose and lignin decreased, and hemicelluloses and silicon increased in fp2. These results were different from the other mutants reported in rice. Thus, fp2 might affect the deposition and patterning of microfibrils, the biosynthesis and deposition of cell wall components, which influences the formation of primary and secondary cell walls, the thickness of cell walls, cell elongation and expansion, plant morphology and plant strength in rice.
18713378	Rice has a preference for uptake of ammonium over nitrate and can use ammonium-N efficiently. Consequently, transporters mediating ammonium uptake have been extensively studied, but nitrate transporters have been largely ignored. Recently, some reports have shown that rice also has high capacity to acquire nitrate from growth medium, so understanding the nitrate transport system in rice roots is very important for improving N use efficiency in rice. The present study identified four putative NRT2 and two putative NAR2 genes that encode components of the high-affinity nitrate transport system (HATS) in the rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica cv. Nipponbare) genome. OsNRT2.1 and OsNRT2.2 share an identical coding region sequence, and their deduced proteins are closely related to those from mono-cotyledonous plants. The two NAR2 proteins are closely related to those from mono-cotyledonous plants as well. However, OsNRT2.3 and OsNRT2.4 are more closely related to Arabidopsis NRT2 proteins. Relative quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that all of the six genes were rapidly upregulated and then downregulated in the roots of N-starved rice plants after they were re-supplied with 0.2 mM nitrate, but the response to nitrate differed among gene members. The results from phylogenetic tree, gene structure and expression analysis implied the divergent roles for the individual members of the rice NRT2 and NAR2 families. High-affinity nitrate influx rates associated with nitrate induction in rice roots were investigated and were found to be regulated by external pH. Compared with the nitrate influx rates at pH 6.5, alkaline pH (pH 8.0) inhibited nitrate influx, and acidic pH (pH 5.0) enhanced the nitrate influx in 1 h nitrate induced roots, but did not significantly affect that in 4 to 8 h nitrate induced roots.
18713381	Cell-wall invertase plays an important role in sucrose partitioning between source and sink organs in higher plants. To investigate the role of cell-wall invertases for seed development in rice (Oryza sativa L.), cDNAs of three putative cell-wall invertase genes OsCIN1, OsCIN2 and OsCIN3 were isolated. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed different expression patterns of the three genes in various rice tissues/organs. In developing caryopses, they exhibited similar temporal expression patterns, expressed highly at the early and middle grain filling stages and gradually declined to low levels afterward. However, the spatial expression patterns of them were very different, with OsCIN1 primarily expressed in the caryopsis coat, OsCIN2 in embryo and endosperm, and OsCIN3 in embryo. Further RNA in situ hybridization analysis revealed that a strong signal of OsCIN2 mRNA was detected in the vascular parenchyma surrounding the xylem of the chalazal vein and the aleurone layer, whereas OsCIN3 transcript was strongly detected in the vascular parenchyma surrounding the phloem of the chalazal vein, cross-cells, the aleurone layer and the nucellar tissue. These data indicate that the three cell-wall invertase genes play complementary/synergetic roles in assimilate unloading during the grain filling stage. In addition, the cell type-specific expression patterns of OsCIN3 in source leaf blades and anthers were also investigated, and its corresponding physiological roles were discussed.
18713399	Histone methylation homeostasis is achieved by controlling the balance between methylation and demethylation to maintain chromatin function and developmental regulation. In animals, a conserved Jumonji C (JmjC) domain was found in a large group of histone demethylases. However, it is still unclear whether plants also contain the JmjC domain-containing active histone demethylases. Here we performed genome-wide screen and phylogenetic analysis of JmjC domain-containing proteins in the dicot plant, Arabidopsis, and monocot plant rice, and found 21 and 20 JmjC domain-containing, respectively. We also examined the expression of JmjC domain-containing proteins and compared them to human JmjC counterparts for potential enzymatic activity. The spatial expression patterns of the Arabidopsis JmjC domain-containing genes revealed that they are all actively transcribed genes. These active plant JmjC domain-containing genes could possibly function in epigenetic regulation to antagonize the activity of the large number of putative SET domain-containing histone methyltransferase activity to dynamically regulate histone methylation homeostasis.
18713413	To study the effects of growing rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaves under the treatment of the short-term elevated CO(2) during the period of sink-source transition, several physiological processes such as dynamic changes in photosynthesis, photosynthate accumulation, enzyme activities (sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS), and sucrose synthase (SS)), and their specific gene (sps1 and RSus1) expressions in both mature and developing leaf were measured. Rice seedlings with fully expanded sixth leaf (marked as the source leaf, L6) were kept in elevated (700 micromol/mol) and ambient (350 mol/L) CO(2) until the 7th leaf (marked as the sink leaf, L7) fully expanded. The results demonstrated that elevated CO(2) significantly increased the rate of leaf elongation and biomass accumulation of L7 during the treatment without affecting the growth of L6. However, in both developing and mature leaves, net photosynthetic assimilation rate (A), all kinds of photosynthate contents such as starch, sucrose and hexose, activities of SPS and SS and transcript levels of sps1 and RSus1 were significantly increased under elevated CO(2) condition. Results suggested that the elevated CO(2) had facilitated photosynthate assimilation, and increased photosynthate supplies from the source leaf to the sink leaf, which accelerated the growth and sink-source transition in new developing sink leaves. The mechanisms of SPS regulation by the elevated CO(2) was also discussed.
18713415	Two plasmids, p13GUS and p13GUS2, were constructed to create a gene trap system containing the promoterless beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in the T-DNA region. Transformation of these two plasmids into the rice variety Zhonghua 11 (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cv.), mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens, resulted in 942 independent transgenic lines. Histochemical GUS assays revealed that 31 T(0) plants had various patterns of the reporter gene expression, including expression in only one tissue, and simultaneously in two or more tissues. Hygromycin-resistant (hyg(r)) homozygotes were screened and the copy number of the T-DNA inserts was determined in the GUS-positive transgenic plants. The flanking sequences of the T-DNA were isolated by inverse-polymerase chain reaction and the insert positions on the rice genome of T-DNA were determined by a basic local alignment search tool in the GUS-positive transgenic plants transformed with plasmid p13GUS. Moreover, calli induced from the seeds of the T(1) generation of 911 GUS-negative transgenic lines were subjected to stress and hormone treatments. Histochemical GUS assays were carried out on the calli before and after treatment. The results revealed that calli from 21 lines displayed differential GUS expression after treatment. All of these data demonstrated that this trap system is suitable for identifying rice genes, including those that are sensitive to induction.
18713442	In an attempt to explore the relationships between phosphatidylglycerol (PG) molecular species of thylakoid membrane lipids and sensitivities to chilling-induced photoinhibition, PG molecular species, D1 protein, electron transport activities of thylakoid membrane and the potential quantum yield (F(v)/F(m)) in rice treated under middle and low photon flux density (PFD) at 11 degrees C were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography, enzyme hydrolysis, gas phase chromatography (GC) and so on. Results showed that the major molecular species of PGs in rice thylakoid membrane were 18:3/16:0, 18:3/16:1(3t), 18:2/16:0, 18:2/16:1(3t), 18:1/16:0, 18:1/16:1(3t), 16:0/16:0, 16:0/16:1(3t). There were large differences in the contents of unsaturated PG molecular species such as 18:1 approximately 3/16:0 approximately 16:1(3t) and saturated PG molecular species like 16:0/16:0 approximately 16:1(3t) among japonica cv 9516 (j-9516), japonica-indica hybrid F1 j-9516/i-SY63 (ji-95SY) and indica cv Shanyou 63 (i-SY63). J-9516 containing higher contents of unsaturated PG molecular species was manifest in stable D1 protein contents under chill and tolerant to chill-induced photoinhibition. In contrast to j-9516, i-SY63 with lower contents of unsaturated PG molecular species, exhibited unstable D1 protein contents under chill and was sensitive to chill-induced photoinhibition. ji-95SY containing middle contents of unsaturated PG molecular species between those of j-9516 and i-SY63, exhibited mid extent of sensitivity to chill-induced photoinhibition. The losses in D1 protein also account for the inhibition in electron transport activity of thylakoid membrane and the observed decline in F(v)/F(m). The PG molecular species that is efficient in raising chilling-resistant capacity were those containing unsaturated fatty acids, namely, unsaturated PG molecular species. These results implied that the substrate selectivity of the glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase in chloroplasts towards 16:0 or 18:1 displayed greatly the difference between japonica and indica rice. It was possible to enhance the capacity of resistance to chilling-induced photoinhibition by improving or modifying the GPAT gene.
18716231	A portable molecular diagnostic laboratory was used to provide molecular confirmation of suspected melioidosis cases seen at Peradeniya Hospital, central Sri Lanka. Soil supernatants from rice field and rubber plantation samples also produced PCR-positive results. These procedures could be used for melioidosis field work in other remote locations.
18716608	The structure of the aerial part of a plant, referred to as plant architecture, is subject to strict genetic control, and grain production in cereal crops is governed by an array of agronomic traits. Rice is one of the most important cereal crops and is also a model plant for molecular biological research. Recently, significant progress has been made in isolating and collecting rice mutants that exhibit altered plant architecture. In this article we summarize the recent progress in understanding the basic patterning mechanisms involved in the regulation of tillering (branching) pattern, stem structure and leaf arrangement in rice plants. We discuss the relationship between the genetic modification of plant architecture and the improvement of pivotal agronomic traits in rice.
18716673	Small RNAs (approximately 20 to 24 nucleotides) function as naturally occurring molecules critical in developmental pathways in plants and animals. Here we analyze small RNA populations from mature rice grain and seedlings by pyrosequencing. Using a clustering algorithm to locate regions producing small RNAs, we classified hotspots of small RNA generation within the genome. Hotspots here are defined as 1 kb regions within which small RNAs are significantly overproduced relative to the rest of the genome. Hotspots were identified to facilitate characterization of different categories of small RNA regulatory elements. Included in the hotspots, we found known members of 23 miRNA families representing 92 genes, one trans acting siRNA (ta-siRNA) gene, novel siRNA-generating coding genes and phased siRNA generating genes. Interestingly, over 20% of the small RNA population in grain came from a single foldback structure, which generated eight phased 21-nt siRNAs. This is reminiscent of a newly arising miRNA derived from duplication of progenitor genes. Our results provide data identifying distinct populations of small RNAs, including phased small RNAs, in mature grain to facilitate characterization of small regulatory RNA expression in monocot species.
18716765	When reaching to objects, our hand and arm rarely collide with non-target objects, even if our workspace is cluttered. The simplicity of these actions hides what must be a relatively sophisticated obstacle avoidance system. Recent studies on patients with optic ataxia and visual form agnosia have demonstrated that obstacle avoidance is an automatic process, likely governed by the dorsal stream (Schindler et al. 2004; Rice et al. 2006). The current study sought to quantify how normal participants react to changes in the size and position of non-target objects in and around their workspace. In the first experiment, 13 right-handed subjects performed reaches to a target strip in the presence of two non-target objects, which varied in depth and horizontal configuration. We found that objects with horizontal alignments that were asymmetric about midline created systematic deviations in reach trajectory away from midline, with participants seeming to maximize the distance away from the two objects. These deviations were significantly greater for objects nearer in depth and nearly disappeared when the objects were placed beyond the target strip. Accompanying this pattern of deviation were other significant obstructing effects whereby reaches were executed more slowly when objects were close in depth and close to the participants reaching (right) hand. In the second experiment, we varied the height of the two objects, as well as the depth. Object pairs were now both tall, both short, or one-short/one-tall. We replicated the significant depth effects of the first experiment, extending the finding to include sensitivity to the size of the objects. Here the obstructing effect caused by short objects was similar to tall objects when those objects were placed at the depth of the reach target, but less than the tall objects when placed at mid-reach. Taken together, these experiments suggest that humans possess a sophisticated obstacle avoidance system that is extremely sensitive and conservative in evaluating potential obstacles and adjusting the reach accordingly.
18717700	Droughts are common recurring natural hazards in Asia, and El Niño events are particularly severe in the Philippines. This paper explores responses by farm households, irrigation system managers, and macro policymakers in the Philippines to El Niño. In response to the large 1997-98 El Niño, farmers in one major irrigation system significantly diversified their economic activities, hut the drought was so acute that many of these activities were not successful. Communication between meteorologists and irrigation system managers is strong, and irrigation system managers are aware of El Niño events in advance. Communication between irrigation system managers and farmer irrigation associations is also strong, and together they have developed response options that attempt to augment supplies of and more efficiently allocate scarce water. Water pricing is not used, however, and lack of cooperation among farmers results in sub-optimal outcomes. Macro-level policy responses in terms of rice imports and buffer stock management to protect poor consumers have improved substantially over time.
1871773	Hemolytic anemia and methemoglobinemia induced by exposure to certain arylamines, such as aniline and dapsone, are known to be mediated by their N-hydroxylamine metabolites. The arylamide propanil (3,4-dichloropropionanilide), a herbicide used extensively in rice fields, is also thought to induce methemoglobinemia through the action of metabolites. However, the hemolytic potential of this compound has not previously been reported. The present studies were undertaken to determine the hemolytic potential of propanil, and, if positive, the role of metabolites in this hemotoxicity. The survival of previously administered 51Cr-labeled erythrocytes in rats was reduced in a dose-dependent manner by ip administration of both propanil and its deacylated metabolite, 3,4-dichloroaniline (ED50 for both ca. 1.8 mmol/kg). When labeled erythrocytes were exposed in vitro to propanil or 3,4-dichloroaniline and then readministered to rats, no decrease in erythrocyte survival was observed, which indicated that these compounds were not direct-acting hemolytic agents. In contrast, erythrocyte survival was markedly reduced by ip administration or in vitro exposure to N-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline. In addition, N-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline was detected in the blood of propanil-treated rats in amounts sufficient to account for the hemolytic activity of the parent compound. These data indicate that N-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline mediates propanil-induced hemolytic anemia, and that occupational exposure to propanil may result in an increased risk of hemolytic episodes.
18718932	To investigate the involvement of phytohormones during rice microspore/pollen (MS/POL) development, endogenous levels of IAA, gibberellins (GAs), cytokinins (CKs) and abscisic acid (ABA) in the mature anther were analyzed. We also analyzed the global expression profiles of genes related to seven phytohormones, namely auxin, GAs, CKs, brassinosteroids, ethylene, ABA and jasmonic acids, in MS/POL and tapetum (TAP) using a 44K microarray combined with a laser microdissection technique (LM-array analysis). IAA and GA(4) accumulated in a much higher amount in the mature anther compared with the other tissues, while CKs and ABA did not. LM-array analysis revealed that sets of genes required for IAA and GA synthesis were coordinately expressed during the later stages of MS/POL development, suggesting that these genes are responsible for the massive accumulation of IAA and GA(4) in the mature anther. In contrast, genes for GA signaling were preferentially expressed during the early developmental stages of MS/POL and throughout TAP development, while their expression was down-regulated at the later stages of MS/POL development. In the case of auxin signaling genes, such mirror-imaged expression observed in GA synthesis and signaling genes was not observed. IAA receptor genes were mostly expressed during the late stages of MS/POL development, and various sets of AUX/IAA and ARF genes were expressed during the different stages of MS/POL or TAP development. Such cell type-specific expression profiles of phytohormone biosynthesis and signaling genes demonstrate the validity and importance of analyzing the expression of phytohormone-related genes in individual cell types independently of other cells/tissues.
18718933	Because protein synthesis begins with N-formylmethionine in plant endosymbiotic organelles, removal of the formyl group by peptide deformylase (PDF) is essential to allowing the excision of the first methionine. Rice contains three copies (OsPDF1A, OsPDF1B and OsPDF1B2) of the PDF genes. Unlike OsPDF1A and OsPDF1B, OsPDF1B2 is apparently non-functional, with several deleterious substitutions and deletions. OsPDF1A is more strongly expressed in the roots, while OsPDF1B is expressed at higher levels in mature leaves. Transient expression of PDF-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins in the protoplasts demonstrates that, unlike OsPDF1A, OsPDF1B is localized in both the chloroplasts and the mitochondria. We used T-DNA insertional alleles to elucidate functional roles associated with OsPDF1B. Homozygous plants of pdf1b/pdf1b exhibited the phenotypes of chlorina and growth retardation. Histochemical analysis showed that the length of their mesophyll cells was increased 4- to 5-fold, resulting in a reduction in the total number of cells. Transmission electron microscopy analyses revealed that chloroplasts were severely damaged and mitochondria appeared to be mildly altered in the pdf1b mutants. Expression of genes encoded in the chloroplasts and mitochondria was altered in the mutants. Based on these results, we conclude that OsPDF1B is essential for the development of chloroplast and perhaps mitochondria.
18719107	Tolerance to abiotic stress is an important agronomic trait in crops and is controlled by many genes, which are called quantitative trait loci (QTLs). Identification of these QTLs will contribute not only to the understanding of plant biology but also for plant breeding, to achieve stable crop production around the world. Previously, we mapped three QTLs controlling low-temperature tolerance at the germination stage (called low-temperature germinability). To understand the molecular basis of one of these QTLs, qLTG3-1 (quantitative trait locus for low-temperature germinability on chromosome 3), map-based cloning was performed, and this QTL was shown to be encoded by a protein of unknown function. The QTL qLTG3-1 is strongly expressed in the embryo during seed germination. Before and during seed germination, specific localization of beta-glucuronidase staining in the tissues covering the embryo, which involved the epiblast covering the coleoptile and the aleurone layer of the seed coat, was observed. Expression of qLTG3-1 was tightly associated with vacuolation of the tissues covering the embryo. This may cause tissue weakening, resulting in reduction of the mechanical resistance to the growth potential of the coleoptile. These phenomena are quite similar to the model system of seed germination presented by dicot plants, suggesting that this model may be conserved in both dicot and monocot plants.
18719340	Tsunan, Niigata is a non-westernized rural Japanese town, known for heavy snowfalls and as a rice-producing area, whose inhabitants have a long life expectancy. We investigated the prevalence of obesity, metabolic syndrome (MetS) and its components in Tsunan. A total of 1,155 men and women, 40-69 years of age were recruited from participants in the 2005 public-health program in Tsunan. Obesity was defined as body-mass index (BMI) >or= 25 kg/m(2). MetS was defined as BMI >or= 25 kg/m(2) as well as at least two of the following three items: (1) high glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c >or= 5.5%); (2) high blood pressure (HBP: systolic blood pressure >or= 130 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure >or= 85 mmHg), and (3) low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C < 40 mg/dL). If an individual was diagnosed with diabetes, hypertension, or dyslipidemia, each item was recorded as a positive finding. The prevalence of MetS and its components among Tsunan inhabitants were compared to the results of the 2005 Japanese nationwide survey. The prevalence of MetS was 4.6% in males and 4.2% in females. The prevalence of obesity, high HbA1c, HBP, and low HDL-C were 22.1/22.2%, 13.4/16.4%, 46.6/40.0%, and 9.2/3.9% in males/females, respectively. All values were significantly lower than the national results, except for the rate of female obesity. The lower prevalence of MetS and its components in Tsunan may be due to the consumption of traditional Japanese food, which is still commonly eaten there, and the higher levels of regular physical activity of farmers.
18719877	Interspecific hybridization and polyploidization may involve programmed genetic and epigenetic changes. In this study, we used the methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism (MSAP) method to survey cytosine methylation alterations that occurred in F(1) hybrid and BC(1) progeny following interspecific hybridization between Oryza sativa and O. officinalis. Across all 316 parental methylated sites, 25 (7.9%) cytosine methylation alterations were detected in the F(1) and/or BC(1) progeny. Thirty additional cytosine methylation alterations were detected at parental non-methylated or novel sites. In total, 55 cytosine methylation alterations (90.9% of all alterations) were detected in the F(1) hybrid, which were maintained in the BC(1) progeny. The alterations in cytosine methylation were biased toward the O. officinalis parent and were in some cases repeatable in independent hybridizations between O. sativa and O. officinalis. Twelve fragments showing cytosine methylation alterations were isolated, sequenced and subsequently validated by methylation-sensitive Southern blot analysis. Where possible, we designed species-specific primers to amplify the polymorphic transcripts from either the O. sativa or the O. officinalis parent using reverse transcription (RT)-PCR in combination with single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis. In four of five cases, modified gene expression could be correlated with the altered cytosine methylation pattern. Our results demonstrated cytosine methylation alterations induced by interspecific hybridization between a rice cultivar and its wild relative, and indicated a direct relationship between cytosine methylation alteration and gene expression variation.
18720488	To determine why chitinase has different antifungal activity on different pathogenic fungi in vitro, we purified recombinant rice chitinase from Pichia pastoris and investigated its antifungal activity against four fungi - Rhizopus stolonifer (Ehrenb. et Fr.) Vuill, Botrytis squamosa Walker, Pythium aphanidermatum (eds.) Fitzp, and Aspergillus niger van Tiegh. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) were used to analyze the surface microstructure and proportion of chitin in the cell wall of the four fungi, respectively. The results showed that the chitinase exhibited different antifungal activities against the four fungi, which was directly correlated to the surface microstructure and the proportion of chitin in the fungal cell wall. It will help understanding the antifungal mechanism of the recombinant chitinase and further determining its application scope on crop protection and post-harvest storage of fruits and vegetables.
18720809	The hyperspectral remote sensing data usually involve hundreds or even thousands of narrow bands, which may be crucial for providing additional information with significant improvements over broad bands in quantifying biophysical and biochemical variables of agricultural crop. However, the huge data generated by hyperspectral systems, and the problems this presents for storage and analysis, have far prevented the routine use of such data. The objective of the present research was to identify the spectral bands in the visible and near-infrared range that were suitable for the study of rice. The hyperspectral reflectance of canopy in different development stages was measured in experimental field using a 1 nm-wide spectroradiometer but was aggregated to 10 nm-wide bandwidths to match the first spaceborne hyperspectral sensor, Hyperion. The correlation coefficients(r) between all the combinations of spectral bands were computed, and then they were converted to R2 , which constituted R2 matrices. The matrices were plotted against wavebands. The criterion of band selection is that the lower the R2 value, the less the redundancy between two wavebands while the higher R2 indicates that there is redundant information between two wavebands. According to the criterion, the wavebands corresponding to the first 100 minimum R2 values were selected from all canopy spectra collected on different dates. And then these bands were analyzed. The results indicate that the visible and infrared (NIR and SWIR) themselves contain redundant information. The wavebands containing abundant information of rice are located in specific bands in the longer wavelength portion of the visible region, with secondary clusters in red edge region, in strongly reflective near-infrared region with relatively higher reflectance, in one particular section of short wave near-infrared (SWIR) (1 530 nm) and in the second maximum reflectance region of SWIR (2 215 nm). Compared with the selected bands with other vegetation, rice seems to have three spectral regions of 400-410 nm, 630-650 nm and 1 520-1 540 nm, which exclusively depict the characteristics of rice. Moreover, this research identified 17 spectral bands in the visible and near-infrared region, which were 405, 565, 585, 605, 620, 640, 660, 680, 695, 705, 720, 740, 865, 910, 1 085, 1 530 and 2 215 nm. These bands contain the majority of the rice information content. A reduction in band number without significant information loss is important because it makes it possible to achieve fine spatial resolution without sacrificing the ability to characterize rice status.
18720847	We constructed cDNA library of Magnaporthe grisea. The good quality cDNA library could facilitate finding proteinaceous elicitors of M. grisea, and elucidating the mechanisms of the M. grisea--rice interaction. The Oligo(dT) combined with the magnetic bead was used to extract mRNA from total RNA of Magnaporthe grisea and as primers to synthesize the first-strand cDNA. Terminal transferase introduced PolyA into 3'terminal of the first cDNA strand, then the PolyA was used for amplifying the second-strand cDNA. Restriction enzyme and adapter were avoided in this research, which could solve technical limitation of the traditional method. Because all reactions were done in one centrifuge tube, this process could reduce the risk of cDNA loss and cross-contamination. The primers designed in this research could clone the amplified cDNAs into expression vector in a desirable orientation. The cDNA library constructed had a high titer of 8.9 x 10(6) cfu/mL, and contained a total clones of 8.9 x 10(7) cfu, with an average inserts size of about 1380 bp. Constructing cDNA library with magnetic bead was a highly efficient method using only small amount of experimental materials within a short period.
18721144	The functional gene amoA was used to compare the diversity of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) in the water column and sediment-water interface of the two freshwater lakes Plusssee and Schöhsee and the Baltic Sea. Nested amplifications were used to increase the sensitivity of amoA detection, and to amplify a 789-bp fragment from which clone libraries were prepared. The larger part of the sequences was only distantly related to any of the cultured AOB and is considered to represent new clusters of AOB within the Nitrosomonas/Nitrosospira group. Almost all sequences from the water column of the Baltic Sea and from 1-m depth of Schöhsee were related to different Nitrosospira clusters 0 and 2, respectively. The majority of sequences from Plusssee and Schöhsee were associated with sequences from Chesapeake Bay, from a previous study of Plusssee and from rice roots in Nitrosospira-like cluster A, which lacks sequences from Baltic Sea. Two groups of sequences from Baltic Sea sediment were related to clonal sequences from other brackish/marine habitats in the purely environmental Nitrosospira-like cluster B and the Nitrosomonas-like cluster. This confirms previous results from 16S rRNA gene libraries that indicated the existence of hitherto uncultivated AOB in lake and Baltic Sea samples, and showed a differential distribution of AOB along the water column and sediment of these environments.
18721307	The pathway of chlorophyll catabolism during leaf senescence is known in a fair amount of biochemical and cell biological detail. In the last few years, genes encoding a number of the catabolic enzymes have been characterized, including the key ring-opening activities, phaeophorbide a oxygenase (PaO) and red chlorophyll catabolite reductase (RCCR). Recently, a gene that modulates disassembly of chlorophyll-protein complexes and activation of pigment ring-opening has been isolated by comparative mapping in monocot species, positional cloning exploiting rice genomics resources and functional testing in Arabidopsis. The corresponding gene in pea has been identified as Mendel's I locus (green/yellow cotyledons). Mutations in this and other chlorophyll catabolic genes have significant consequences, both for the course of leaf senescence and senescence-like stress responses, notably hypersensitivity to pathogen challenge. Loss of chlorophyll can occur via routes other than the PaO/RCCR pathway, resulting in changes that superficially resemble senescence. Such 'pseudosenescence' responses tend to be pathological rather than physiological and may differ from senescence in fundamental aspects of biochemistry and regulation.
18721784	The variation of seedling characteristics under different water supply conditions is strongly associated with drought resistance in rice (Oryza sativa L.) and a better elucidation of its genetics is helpful for improving rice drought resistance. Ninetysix doubled-haploid (DH) rice lines of an indica and japonica cross were grown in both flooding and upland conditions and QTLs for morphological traits at seedling stage were examined using 208 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and 76 microsatellite (SSR) markers. A total of 32 putative QTLs were associated with the four seedling traits: average of three adventitious root lengths (ARL), shoot height (SH), shoot biomass (SW), and root to shoot dry weight ratio (RSR). Five QTLs detected were the same under control and upland conditions. The ratio between the mean value of the seedling trait under upland and flooding conditions was used for assessing drought tolerance. A total of six QTLs for drought tolerance were detected. Comparative analysis was performed for the QTLs detected in this case and those reported from two other populations with the same upland rice variety Azucena as parent. Several identical QTLs for seedling elongation across the three populations with the positive alleles from the upland rice Azucena were detected, which suggests that the alleles of Azucena might be involved in water stress-accelerated elongation of rice under different genetic backgrounds. Five cell wall-related candidate genes for OsEXP1, OsEXP2, OsEXP4, EXT, and EGase were mapped on the intervals carrying the QTLs for seedling traits.
18721787	The major QTL-qSB-9(Tq) conferring partial resistance to rice (Oryza sativa L.) sheath blight (Rhizoctonia solani Kühn) has been verified on chromosome 9 of the indica rice cultivar, Teqing. In this study, the prospect of this QTL utilized in molecular breeding program of japonica rice for sheath blight resistance was investigated. Most of the japonica rice cultivars showed lower level of sheath blight resistance than the indica rice cultivars. At the corresponding site of qSB-9(Tq), nine typical japonica rice cultivars from different ecological regions or countries proved to possess the susceptible allele(s). Introgression of qSB-9(Tq) into these cultivars enhanced their resistance level by decreasing sheath blight score of 1.0 (0.5-1.3), which indicated that qSB-9(Tq) had a large potential in strengthening the resistance of japonica rice to sheath blight. The use of the three molecular markers, which were polymorphic between Teqing and many japonica rice cultivars, promotes the application of qSB-9(Tq) in a concrete molecular breeding program.
18722641	This work describes the use of rice hull as starting material for the synthesis of cements doped with iron and aluminum. Rice hull contains about 10-20% of silica along with organic material. In many countries rice hull represents an environmental problem since this material is merely burned at rice fields, rendering suspended silica particles in the air. Dicalcium silicate (beta-Ca(2)SiO(4)) is the second most important component of Portland cement and presents many environmental advantages over commercial cement. It can be prepared at lower temperatures saving energy and raw-materials. In this work we describe the synthesis beta-Ca(2)SiO(4) using silica derived from rice hull ash. Silica was obtained from heating rice hull at 600 degrees C. Starting materials (silica, calcium oxide, barium chloride, iron or aluminum oxide) were weighed in stoichiometric proportions and aqueous dispersions having water:solid ratio of approximately 20:1 were prepared and treated in an ultrasonic bath for 60 min. After this, an intermediate silicate and the excess of calcium hydroxide were obtained. Finally solids were dried, grounded and heated up to 800 degrees C. It was observed that beta-Ca(2)SiO(4) was obtained when dopant concentration was limited to 1%.
18723398	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a new family of small RNA molecules known in animals and plants, whose conservation among species suggests that they bear conserved biological functions. So far, little is known about miRNA in Solanum tuberosum species. Using previously known miRNAs from Arabidopsis, rice and other plant species against expressed sequence tags (ESTs), genomic survey sequence (GSS) and nucleotide databases, we identified 48 potential miRNAs in S. tuberosum. These potato miRNAs may regulate 186 potential targets, which are involved in floral, leaf, root, and stem development, signal transduction, metabolism pathways, and stress responses. To validate the prediction of miRNAs in potato, we performed a RT-PCR analysis and found that potato miRNAs have diverse expression patterns during development.
18723578	A small GTPase, Rac1, plays a key role in rice (Oryza sativa) innate immunity as part of a complex of regulatory proteins. Here, we used affinity column chromatography to identify rice RACK1 (for Receptor for Activated C-Kinase 1) as an interactor with Rac1. RACK1 functions in various mammalian signaling pathways and is involved in hormone signaling and development in plants. Rice contains two RACK1 genes, RACK1A and RACK1B, and the RACK1A protein interacts with the GTP form of Rac1. Rac1 positively regulates RACK1A at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. RACK1A transcription was also induced by a fungal elicitor and by abscisic acid, jasmonate, and auxin. Analysis of transgenic rice plants and cell cultures indicates that RACK1A plays a role in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and in resistance against rice blast infection. Overexpression of RACK1A enhances ROS production in rice seedlings. RACK1A was shown to interact with the N terminus of NADPH oxidase, RAR1, and SGT1, key regulators of plant disease resistance. These results suggest that RACK1A functions in rice innate immunity by interacting with multiple proteins in the Rac1 immune complex.
18723667	Plant cells contain several thioredoxin isoforms that are characterized by subcellular localization and substrate specificity. Here, we describe the functional characterization of a rice (Oryza sativa) thioredoxin m isoform (Ostrxm) using a reverse genetics technique. Ostrxm showed green tissue-specific and light-responsive mRNA expression. Ostrxm was localized in chloroplasts of rice mesophyll cells, and the recombinant protein showed dithiothreitol-dependent insulin beta-chain reduction activity in vitro. RNA interference (RNAi) of Ostrxm resulted in rice plants with developmental defects, including semidwarfism, pale-green leaves, abnormal chloroplast structure, and reduced carotenoid and chlorophyll content. Ostrxm RNAi plants showed remarkably decreased F(v)/F(m) values under high irradiance conditions (1,000 micromol m(-2) s(-1)) with delayed recovery. Two-dimensional electrophoresis and matrix-assisted laser-desorption/ionization time-of-flight analysis showed that the levels of several chloroplast proteins critical for photosynthesis and biogenesis were significantly decreased in Ostrxm RNAi plants. Furthermore, 2-Cys peroxiredoxin, a known target of thioredoxin, was present in oxidized forms, and hydrogen peroxide levels were increased in Ostrxm RNAi plants. The pleiotropic effects of Ostrxm RNAi suggest that Ostrxm plays an important role in the redox regulation of chloroplast target proteins involved in diverse physiological functions.
18723758	Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) affects over 250 million people worldwide and is one of the most prevalent nutritional deficiencies in developing countries, resulting in significant socio-economic losses. Provitamin A carotenoids such as beta-carotene, are derived from plant foods and are a major source of vitamin A for the majority of the world's population. Several years of intense research has resulted in the production of 'Golden Rice 2' which contains sufficiently high levels of provitamin A carotenoids to combat VAD. In this report, the focus is on the generation of transgenic maize with enhanced provitamin A content in their kernels. Overexpression of the bacterial genes crtB (for phytoene synthase) and crtI (for the four desaturation steps of the carotenoid pathway catalysed by phytoene desaturase and zeta-carotene desaturase in plants), under the control of a 'super gamma-zein promoter' for endosperm-specific expression, resulted in an increase of total carotenoids of up to 34-fold with a preferential accumulation of beta-carotene in the maize endosperm. The levels attained approach those estimated to have a significant impact on the nutritional status of target populations in developing countries. The high beta-carotene trait was found to be reproducible over at least four generations. Gene expression analyses suggest that increased accumulation of beta-carotene is due to an up-regulation of the endogenous lycopene beta-cylase. These experiments set the stage for the design of transgenic approaches to generate provitamin A-rich maize that will help alleviate VAD.
18723891	Transmission ratio distortion (TRD) is frequently observed in inter- and intraspecific hybrids of plants, leading to a violation of Mendelian inheritance. Sex-independent TRD (siTRD) was detected in a hybrid between Asian cultivated rice and its wild ancestor. Here we examined how siTRD caused by an allelic interaction at a specific locus arose in Asian rice species. The siTRD is controlled by the S6 locus via a mechanism in which the S6 allele acts as a gamete eliminator, and both the male and female gametes possessing the opposite allele (S6a) are aborted only in heterozygotes (S6/S6a). Fine mapping revealed that the S6 locus is located near the centromere of chromosome 6. Testcross experiments using near-isogenic lines (NILs) carrying either the S6 or S6a alleles revealed that Asian rice strains frequently harbor an additional allele (S6n) the presence of which, in heterozygotic states (S6/S6n and S6a/S6n), does not result in siTRD. A prominent reduction in the nucleotide diversity of S6 or S6a carriers relative to that of S6n carriers was detected in the chromosomal region. These results suggest that the two incompatible alleles (S6 and S6a) arose independently from S6n and established genetically discontinuous relationships between limited constituents of the Asian rice population.
18725639	Transition from the vegetative phase to reproductive phase is a crucial process in the life cycle of higher plants. Although the molecular mechanisms of flowering regulation have been extensively characterized in a number of plant species, little is known regarding how the transition process initiates. Here, we show that the Rice Indeterminate 1 (RID1) gene acts as the master switch for the transition from the vegetative to reproductive phase. RID1 encodes a Cys-2/His-2-type zinc finger transcription factor that does not have an ortholog in Arabidopsis spp. A RID1 knockout (rid1), mutated by T-DNA insertion, never headed after growing for >500 days under a range of growth conditions and is thus referred to as a never-flowering phenotype. This mutation-suppressed expression of the genes is known to be involved in flowering regulation, especially in the Ehd1/Hd3a pathway and a series of RFT homologs. RID1 seems to be independent of the circadian clock. A model was proposed to place RID1 in the molecular pathways of flowering regulation in rice, for which there are two indispensable elements. In the first, RID1 is controlling the phase transition and initiation of floral induction. In the other, the Hd3a/RFL1/FTL complex acts as the immediate inducer of flowering. Loss of function in either element would cause never-flowering. Once the phase transition is induced with the activation of RID1, flowering signal is transduced and regulated through the various pathways and eventually integrated with FT-like proteins to induce flowering.
18725934	Functional redundancy limits detailed analysis of genes in many organisms. Here, we report a method to efficiently overcome this obstacle by combining gene expression data with analysis of gene-indexed mutants. Using a rice NSF45K oligo-microarray to compare 2-week-old light- and dark-grown rice leaf tissue, we identified 365 genes that showed significant 8-fold or greater induction in the light relative to dark conditions. We then screened collections of rice T-DNA insertional mutants to identify rice lines with mutations in the strongly light-induced genes. From this analysis, we identified 74 different lines comprising two independent mutant lines for each of 37 light-induced genes. This list was further refined by mining gene expression data to exclude genes that had potential functional redundancy due to co-expressed family members (12 genes) and genes that had inconsistent light responses across other publicly available microarray datasets (five genes). We next characterized the phenotypes of rice lines carrying mutations in ten of the remaining candidate genes and then carried out co-expression analysis associated with these genes. This analysis effectively provided candidate functions for two genes of previously unknown function and for one gene not directly linked to the tested biochemical pathways. These data demonstrate the efficiency of combining gene family-based expression profiles with analyses of insertional mutants to identify novel genes and their functions, even among members of multi-gene families.
18726209	Rice anther and leaf mRNAs from two cytoplasmic male sterile lines (Maxie A and Congguong 41A) were compared with those from their maintainers and F(1) hybrids by using mRNA differential display to study gene expression pattern in sterile anther during pollen abortion. Anther cDNA differential bands between sterile and fertile plants were more than those of leaf. It was indicated that the expression of fertility gene(s) in the anther was more activable and sufficient than in the leaf. The gene transcript pattern in one of different types of anther was not only associated with its pollen sterility degree but also with its stage of pollen abortion. The anthers with full or partial sterility or with early abortion produced more cDNA differential bands than those fertile or late abortion anthers. In twelve recovered differential cDNA fragments, two were probably associated with male sterility, i. e. one is (AB(4)A(5)), which was specifically expressed in the sterile anther, and the other (AB(3)B(2)), which contained some sequence homologous to a mitochondrial gene (coxII) and whose expression was partially suppressed in the sterile anther.
18726210	A putative MADS box gene (RgMADS1) was cloned by screening a rice genomic library with a heterogeneous MADS box probe derived from Antirrhinum majus squamosa gene. Sequencing and Southern analysis showed that RgMADS1 contains a highly conserved MADS box sequence, - whereas the rice genome contains numbers of MADS box genes. A chimera gene of RgMADS1 under the control of CaMV 35S promoter was constructed and used to transform Arabidopsis. Some transformants exhibited abnormal phenotypes in their flowers, which were reflected in the floral structure, number and setting position. Therefore, RgMADS1 is likely a member of rice MADS box gene family and may be involved in the floral establishment and function control in the rice developmental process.
18726217	Using single primer (TTTAGGG)(3) or (CCCTAAA)(3)CCC corresponding to rice telomeric repeat sequences, two fragments were amplified from rice genomic DNA and named Tas1 and Tas2. These two fragments did not show polymorphism between the mapping parents. Tasl was found to hybridize to rice telomeric regions by in situ hybridization (FISH). Then a rice bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library was constructed and Tasl was used to screen it. One positive clone was identified. A single copy sequence of this BAC clone was mapped at the end of the 6th chromosome of rice.
18726237	By using a set of 315 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from the cross Lemont (japonica) x Teqing (indica) and a complete linkage map with 186 well distributed RFLP markers and 3 morphological markers, a major gene (Xa4) and 10 QTLs and 9 pairs of epistasis loci conferring horizontal resistance to three strains of Xanthomonas oryxa pv oryza (Xoo) were mapped. The Teqing allele at Xa4 on chromosome 11 acts as a dominant resistant gene against pathogen race CR4 and CX08, but as an additive QTL with a significantly (47%) reduced effect against the virulent strain, CR6. The major gene Xa4 exhibited stronger degree of race specificity. Most QTLs showed consistent levels of resistance against all three Xoo strains. The results suggest that a high level durable resistance to Xoo may be achieved by cumulative effects of multiple QTL.
18726253	Acoording to the telomere-repeated sequences of rice, two primers: (TTTAGGG11)(3) and (CCC-TAA.A)(3)CCC were used to amplify rice telomere-assciated sequences (TASs). Fox PCR template preparation. total DNA was digested with restrictive endonuclease and then ligated. Using the ligates or total DNA sa template, eight fragments were obtained with the single primer by the PCR reaction. To confirm that the sequences are derived from telomeric DNA, we conducted Bal31 digestion analysis. Of the eight fragments, seven were susceptible to Bal31 treatment, suggesting that they were TASs. These DNA fragments were further demonstrated u, be rice sub-telomeric sequences by RFLP mapping Five sequences have been mapped to the distal ends on rice chromme 5,6,7 and 9, and two other sequences have been mapped at interstitial sites, suggesting that (TTTAGGG)(n). also exist in the middle of rice chromosomes-All eight fragments were sequenced and characterized.
18726256	Oryza meyeriana Baill is one of the three wild rice species found in Chiia.O. mcyeriana possesses valuable characteristics but is reluctant in cell culturein vitro. In a series of experiments, callus with no regeneration ability was induced from young panicle ofO. meyeriana. The callus was subcultured and propagated. Embryogenic cell clones were obtained after cryopreswation. Suspension cultures were established and protoplasts were isolated and regenerated into plants. Results of artificial inoculation ofXanthomonas campestris pv.Oryzae showed that the strong resistance did not change in the regenerated plants. The development of protoplast-to-plant system is an important progress towards utilization ofO. meyeriana via cellular engineering. The experiments demonstrated that cryopreservation of plant calli was a new way to obtain embryogenic cell line.
18726339	A cloned gene, Xa21 was transferred into five widely-used Chinese rice varieties through an Agrobacterium- mediated system, and over 110 independent transgenic lines were obtained. PCR and Southern analysis of transgenic plants revealed the integration of the whole Xa21 gene into the host genomes. The integrated Xa21 gene was stably inherited, and segregated in a 3: 1 ratio in the selfed T(1) generation when one copy of the gene was integrated in the transformants. Inoculation tests displayed that transgenic T(0) plants and Xa21 PCR-positive T(1) plants were highly resistant to bacterial blight disease. The selected Xa21 homozygous resistant transgenic lines with desirable qualities may be propagated as new varieties or utilized in hybrid rice breeding.
18726340	srs-1, a new floral organ identity gene in rice, was mapped using RAPD and RFLP markers. Firstly, the cross was made between "ZhaiYeQing 8" (ZYQ8, indica) and split rice spikelet (SRS, japonica) mutant. The ratio of wild-type individuals and mutant plants in F(2) population is 3:1, which indicates that the mutant characteristics are controlled by single recessive gene,srs-1. Consequently, BSA method was adopted and 520 random 10-mer primers were used to screen polymorphic bands between two bulks. Six primers could amplify polymorphic bands, of which S465 generates the most stable RAPD patterns. Then, S465 that cosegregates in F(2) population has been converted into an RFLP marker successfully. Furthermore,srs-1 gene was mapped on chromosome 3 using DH mapping population. The effect of srs-1 gene results in the mutant of split rice spikelet. The mutant has longer and softer palea/lemma than those of wild-type, and two small palea/lemma-like organs between palea and lemma. In addition, there is a flower with three stamens and carpel in the axil of lemma. Thus, there are nine stamens and two carpels in the spikelet of mutant,srs-1 gene may belong to homeotic gene of class A according to the mutant characteristics and ABC model.
18726405	Twenty three DNA fragments with a size of about 520 bp have been cloned from rice genome by PCR amplification using primers designed according to the conserved region of most plant resistance (R) genes which have Nucleotide Binding Site (NBS) and Leucine-Rich Repeat (LRR) domains. Homologous comparison showed that these fragments contained typical motifs of the NBS-LRR resistance gene class, kinase 1a, kinase 2a, kinase 3a and domain 2. Thus they were named R gene homologous sequences (RS). These RS were divided into 4 groups by clustering analysis and mapped onto chromosomes 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11, respectively, by genetic mapping. Ten RS were located in the chromosomal intervals where known R genes had been mapped. Further RFLP analysis of an RS, RS13, near the bacterial blight resistance geneXa4 locus on chromosome 11 among near isogenic lines and pyramiding lines ofXa4 showed that RS13 was possibly amplified from the gene family ofXa4.
18726413	In populations derived from commercial hybrid rice combination Shanyou 10, F(1) heterosis and F(2) inbreeding depression were observed on grain yield (GYD) and number of panicles (NP). Using marker loci evenly distributed on the linkage map as fixing factors, the F(2) population was divided into sub-populations. In a large number of sub-populations, significant correlations were observed between heterozygosity and GYD, and between heterozygosity and NP. This was especially true in type III sub-populations in which the genotype of a fixing factor was heterozygotes. In type III sub-populations, 15 QTL for GYD and 13 QTL for NP were detected, of which the majority exhibited over-dominance effects for increasing the trait values. This study showed that over-dominance played an important role in the genetic control of heterosis in rice.
18726433	Using a degenerated primer and a T-primer, a MADS-box gene, M79, was amplified by RT-PCR from rice fluorescence at meiosis stage and then cloned. Sequence analysis shows that M79 shares 98.2% homology with OsMADS7 at DNA level while only 92% at the amino acid level. The transcript of M79 possesses five different polyadenylation sites. Only a single copy of M79 gene has been found in rice genome, which is located on chromosome 8. M79 is expressed specifically in flower organs, from pre-meiosis stage through pollen maturation. Ectopic expression of M79 in T(0) and T(1) transgenic rice results in early-flowering, implying that M79 is involved in controlling the flowering time. In the same time, M79 may be involved in controlling the branching process to make more flower buds.
18726469	Homeobox genes, widely distributed among animal and plant kingdoms, play an important role in developmental process. Several homeobox conserved fragments were amplified by PCR and the flanking regions were also obtained by an LM-PCR procedure. Sequencing and Southern analysis showed that they belong to a homeobox gene family of rice. Six homeobox-containing fragments were mapped on the molecular linkage map of rice. They were located on chromosomes 3, 4 and 7 respectively. It is noteworthy that there are 4 homeobox fragments located on rice chromosome 3 and the result is also consistent with the comparative genomics between rice and maize.
18726482	In order to develop a detailed physical map of the thermo-sensitive genic male-sterile (TGMS) gene-encompassing region and finally clone the TGMS gene, a high-quality rice bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library from TGMS rice 5460S was constructed. The method of constructing BAC library was examined and optimized. The 5460S library consists of 19 584 BAC clones with an average insert size of 110 kb, which represents about 5 times rice haploid genome equivalents. Rice inserts of up to 140 kb and 250 kb were isolated and appeared stable after 100 generations of serial growth. Hybridization of BAC clones with mitochondrial and chloroplastic genes as probes demonstrated that this library has no organellar contamination. The 5460S library was screened with 3 molecular markers linked to tms 1 gene as probes and at least 1 BAC clone was identified with each probe. The insert ends of positive clones were successfully isolated using thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (TAIL-PCR) technique.
18726497	The 3' leader and the 5' trailer of the rice yellow stunt rhabdovirus (RYSV) genomic RNA have been cloned and sequenced. Sequence data indicate that the RYSV leader region is composed of 203 nucleotides (nt) and the trailer region 191 nt. The terminal 9 nt of the two regions are complementary and capable of forming a putative panhandle structure common to rhabdovirus genomes. In comparison with the leader or trailer sequences of other rhabdoviruses reported so far, both the leader and trailer of RYSV are the longest and there is no obvious sequence homology between the counterparts except for a few terminal nt and the UGUU motif in the leader sequences. Polyadenylated plus-strand leader RNA has been detected in RYSV-infected rice plants by 3' RACE. This is the second example in rhabdoviruses following the report for sonchus yellow net virus (SYNV) for existence of a polyadenylated leader RNA. No polyadenylated plus-strand transcripts of the RYSV trailer have been found using the similar method.
18726500	BAC2, a rice BAC clone containing (TTTAGGG)(n) homologous sequences, was analyzed by Southern hybridization and DNA sequencing of its subclones. It was disclosed that there were many tandem repeated satellite DNA sequences, called TA352, as well as simple tandem repeats consisting of TTTAGGG or its variant within the BAC2 insert. A 0. 8 kb (TTTAGGG)(n)-containing fragment in BAC2 was mapped in the telomere regions of at least 5 pairs of rice chromosomes by using fluorescencein situ hybridization (FISH). By RFLP analysis of low copy sequences the BAC2 clone was localized in one terminal region of chromosome 6. All the results strongly suggest that the telomeric DNA sequences of rice are TTTAGGG or its variant, and the linked satellite DNA TA352 sequences belong to telomere-associated sequences.
18726515	By using differential display PCR (DD-PCR) technique, two salt-inducible and one salt-repressed cDNA fragments were isolated from rice. The three cDNA fragments were characterized respectively as partial sequence of rice S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) gene, a new member of translation elongation factor 1A gene (namedREF1 A), and a novel gene whose function is unknown (namedSRG1). The full-length cDNA of SAMDC gene (namedSAMDC1) was further isolated by RT-PCR approach and the deduced polypeptide was found to be homologous to SAMDC proteins of other plants, yeast and buman. Northern hybridization revealed that expression of SAMDCl and REFlA was induced, while SRGl was dramatically repressed, by salinity stress. Southern blot analysis demonstrated that SAMDCl and SRGl were present as a single copy gene in rice genome, whereas riceREF1 A gene was organized as a gene family. TheREF1 A,SAMDC1, andSRG1 genes were located on chromosome 3,4, and 6 respectively by RFLP mapping approach using ZYQ8/JX17 DH population and RFLP linkage maps.
18726584	The rice japonica cultivars Nipponbare and Koshihikari differ in heading date and response of heading to photoperiod (photoperiod sensitivity). Using simple sequence repeat (SSR) and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers, we conducted quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses for heading date in a set of reciprocal backcross inbred lines (BILs) from crosses between Nipponbare and Koshihikari. Under natural-day conditions, transgressive segregation in days to heading (DTH) toward both early and late heading was observed in both BIL populations. QTL analyses revealed that two QTLs--on chromosomes 3 and 6--were involved in the difference in heading date between the parental cultivars. The Nipponbare allele at the QTLs on chromosomes 3 and 6 showed, respectively, increasing and decreasing effects on DTH in both BIL populations. The transgressive segregation observed in the BILs could be accounted for mainly by the complementary action of a set of alleles with opposing effects. Both QTLs were finely mapped as single Mendelian factors in secondary mapping populations (BC2F2 plants/BC2F3 lines). The QTL on chromosome 3 was mapped in the 1,140-kb interval between 94O03-4 (SSR) and OJ21G19-4 (SNP) and was designated Hd16. The QTL on chromosome 6 was mapped in the 328-kb interval between P548D347 (SSR) and 0007O20 (SSR) and was designated Hd17. Both Hd16 and Hd17 were involved in photoperiod sensitivity, as revealed by observation of the DTH of nearly isogenic lines of Nipponbare under short- and long-day conditions, suggesting that allelic differences in both Hd16 and Hd17 account for most of the difference in photoperiod sensitivity between the parental cultivars.
18726619	The optimization of process parameters for high inulinase production by the marine yeast strain Cryptococcus aureus G7a in solid-state fermentation (SSF) was carried out using central composite design (CCD), one of the response surface methodologies (RSMs). We found that moisture, inoculation size, the amount ratio of wheat bran to rice husk, temperature and pH had great influence on inulinase production by strain G7a. Therefore, the CCD was used to evaluate the influence of the five factors on the inulinase production by strain G7a. Then, five levels of the five factors above were further optimized using the CCD. Finally, the optimal parameters obtained with the RSM were the initial moisture 61.5%, inoculum 2.75%, the amount ratio of wheat bran to rice husk 0.42, temperature 29 degrees C, pH 5.5. Under the optimized conditions, 420.9 U g(-1) of dry substrate of inulinase activity was reached in the solid-state fermentation culture of strain G7a within 120 h whereas the predicted maximum inulinase activity of 436.2 U g(-1) of inulinase activity of 436.2 U g(-1) of dry weight was derived from the RSM regression. This is the highest inulinase activity produced by the yeast strain reported so far. A large amount of monosaccharides and oligosaccharides were detected after inulin hydrolysis by the crude inulinase.
18727558	The production of high-value pharmaceutical proteins and peptides in transgenic plants is an attractive and economically feasible alternative to conventional mammalian cell, yeast, and bacterial systems. In contrast to vegetative tissues, rice seeds allow higher accumulation of recombinant proteins and long-term stable storage. Rice is not only consumed as a staple food by a majority of the world's population, but is also used as a model monocot for biotechnological manipulation. Daily oral consumption of transgenic rice seeds that accumulate high concentrations of food-derived or synthetic bioactive peptides can be expected to provide a safe, reliable, and consistent oral delivery system that would contribute to the promotion of human health care.
18729464	Phytochemicals such as phenolics and flavonoids, which are present in rice grains, are associated with reduced risk of developing chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, and some cancers. The phenolic and flavonoid compounds in rice grain also contribute to the antioxidant activity. Biofortification of rice grain by conventional breeding is a way to improve nutritional quality so as to combat nutritional deficiency. Since wet chemistry measurement of phenolic and flavonoid contents and antioxidant activity are time-consuming and expensive, a rapid and nondestructive predictive method based on near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) would be valuable to measure these nutritional quality parameters. In the present study, calibration models for measurement of phenolic and flavonoid contents and antioxidant capacity were developed using principal component analysis (PCA), partial least-squares regression (PLS), and modified partial least-squares regression (mPLS) methods with the spectra of the dehulled grain (brown rice). The results showed that NIRS could effectively predict the total phenolic contents and antioxidant capacity by PLS and mPLS methods. The standard errors of prediction (SEP) were 47.1 and 45.9 mg gallic acid equivalent (GAE) for phenolic content, and the coefficients of determination (r (2)) were 0.849 and 0.864 by PLS and mPLS methods, respectively. Both PLS and mPLS methods gave similarly accurate performance for prediction of antioxidant capacity with SEP of 0.28 mM Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) and r (2) of 0.82. However, the NIRS models were not successful for flavonoid content with the three methods (r (2) < 0.4). The models reported here are usable for routine screening of a large number of samples in early generation screening in breeding programs.
18736436
18737426
18737432
18739524
1874696	Jute fibers are treated with about 5-7% of a high boiling mineral oil fraction ("batching oil") to render them flexible for making fabrics. Foods transported in jute bags are contaminated by this batching oil. A method involving automated on-line LC-GC is described for determining these hydrocarbons in various foods. Complete transfer of the LC fraction to GC is presupposed for obtaining the required sensitivity. Results are given for nuts, coffee, cocoa products, and rice. Contamination ranged between about 5 and 500 ppm.
18751974
18752204	While the phytotoxic responses of arsenic (As) on plants have been studied extensively, based on physiological and biochemical aspects, very little is known about As stress-elicited changes in plants at the proteome level. Hydroponically grown 2-wk-old rice seedlings were exposed to different doses of arsenate, and roots were collected after 4 days of treatment, as well as after a recovery period. To gain a comprehensive understanding of the precise mechanisms underlying As toxicity, metabolism, and the defense reactions in plants, a comparative proteomic analysis of rice roots has been conducted in combination with physiological and biochemical analyses. Arsenic treatment resulted in increases of As accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and in vivo H(2)O(2) contents in roots. A total of 23 As-regulated proteins including predicted and novel ones were identified using 2-DE coupled with MS analyses. The expression levels of S-adenosylmethionine synthetase (SAMS), GSTs, cysteine synthase (CS), GST-tau, and tyrosine-specific protein phosphatase proteins (TSPP) were markedly up-regulated in response to arsenate, whereas treatment by H(2)O(2) also regulated the levels of CS suggesting that its expression was certainly regulated by As or As-induced oxidative stress. In addition, an omega domain containing GST was induced only by arsenate. However, it was not altered by treatment of arsenite, copper, or aluminum, suggesting that it may play a particular role in arsenate stress. Analysis of the total glutathione (GSH) content and enzymatic activity of glutathione reductase (GR) in rice roots during As stress revealed that their activities respond in a dose-dependent manner of As. These results suggest that SAMS, CS, GSTs, and GR presumably work synchronously wherein GSH plays a central role in protecting cells against As stress.
18753281	Accumulation of reserve materials in filling grains involves the coordination of different metabolic and cellular processes, and understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the interconnections remains a major challenge for proteomics. Rice (Oryza sativa) is an excellent model for studying grain filling because of its importance as a staple food and the available genome sequence database. Our observations showed that embryo differentiation and endosperm cellularization in developing rice seeds were completed approximately 6 d after flowering (DAF); thereafter, the immature seeds mainly underwent cell enlargement and reached the size of mature seeds at 12 DAF. Grain filling began at 6 DAF and lasted until 20 DAF. Dynamic proteomic analyses revealed 396 protein spots differentially expressed throughout eight sequential developmental stages from 6 to 20 DAF and determined 345 identities. These proteins were involved in different cellular and metabolic processes with a prominently functional skew toward metabolism (45%) and protein synthesis/destination (20%). Expression analyses of protein groups associated with different functional categories/subcategories showed that substantially up-regulated proteins were involved in starch synthesis and alcoholic fermentation, whereas the down-regulated proteins in the process were involved in central carbon metabolism and most of the other functional categories/subcategories such as cell growth/division, protein synthesis, proteolysis, and signal transduction. The coordinated changes were consistent with the transition from cell growth and differentiation to starch synthesis and clearly indicated that a switch from central carbon metabolism to alcoholic fermentation may be important for starch synthesis and accumulation in the developmental process.
18753446	We studied the influence of the cereal (corn and rice), heat processing (HP) of the cereal (raw and steam cooking), and fiber inclusion (none; 3% oat hulls, OH; and 3% soy hulls, SH) in low-fiber diets on the development and pH of the digestive tract in broilers. There were 12 treatments arranged factorially and 3 replicates (a cage with 12 chicks) per treatment. Digestive traits were measured at 1, 5, 9, 15, and 22 d of age, and digesta pH was determined at 22 d of age. The relative weight (% BW) of proventriculus and gizzard was greater in chicks fed corn than in chicks fed rice (P < or = 0.01). Heat processing had little effect on relative weight (RW) of the digestive organs. An interaction between cereal and HP of the cereal was detected for the gizzard and the liver; HP of corn reduced RW of the gizzard and increased that of the liver, but no effect was observed with HP of rice. The RW of the proventriculus was increased by SH inclusion (P < or = 0.05), whereas the RW of the gizzard was increased by OH inclusion (P < or = 0.001). Also, SH inclusion increased gizzard digesta (P < or = 0.01) and moisture (P < or = 0.001) content. Dietary treatment did not affect relative length (cm/kg of empty BW) of the intestines. Feeding rice tended to increase gizzard digesta pH (P = 0.081) but reduced that of the intestines (P < or = 0.001). Neither HP of the cereal nor hull inclusion affected pH of the digestive tract. We conclude that the RW of the proventriculus and gizzard is reduced by feeding rice and increased by hull inclusion. Dietary treatment had little effect on the weight and relative length of the intestines. Chicks might require a minimal amount of fiber in the diet to stimulate the development of the upper gastrointestinal tract.
18754079	CBF/DREB (C-repeat binding factor/dehydration responsive element binding factor) family of transcription factors in plants is reported to be associated with regulation of gene expression under stress conditions. Here, we report the functional characterization of a DREB transcription factor, DREB1B gene from rice (Oryza sativa ssp. indica). The OsDREB1B gene was differentially regulated at the transcriptional level by osmotic stress, oxidative stress, salicylic acid, ABA, and cold. A 745 bp promoter region of OsDREB1B cDNA was fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene and introduced via Agrobacterium tumifaciens into the genome of Arabidopsis. Histochemical analysis of GUS expression in T(2) transgenic Arabidopsis plants indicated that OsDREB1B shows stress-specific induction pattern in response to a variety of stresses like mannitol, NaCl, PEG, methyl viologen, cold, ABA, and salicylic acid. Leaf-order-dependent induction pattern of the promoter was observed in response to both cold and ABA stresses. Further, OsDREB1B cDNA was introduced into tobacco plants under the control of CaMV35S promoter to investigate the role of DREB1B product in plant stress response. Transgenic tobacco plants have shown improved seed germination, root growth, membrane stability, and 2, 2-diphenyl-1-pycrilhydrazil hydrate (DPPH) free radical scavenging activity under inhibitory concentrations of mannitol. Importantly, transgenic plants accumulated higher fresh weight under long-term osmotic stress, and also have shown retention of more water than the wild type during drought stress. Overexpression of OsDREB1B in tobacco also improved the oxidative and freezing stress tolerance of transgenic plants. In addition, tobacco plants constitutively expressing OsDREB1B have shown decreased sensitivity to tobacco streak virus infection. Constitutive expression of OsDREB1B in tobacco also induced the expression of PR genes in transgenic plants. The data obtained provide strong in vivo evidence that OsDREB1B is involved in both abiotic and biotic stress responses, and confers broad-spectrum stress tolerance to transgenic plants.
18754090	Natural chemical weathering of silicate rocks is a significant sink for soil and atmospheric CO(2). Previous work suggested that natural chemical weathering may be stimulated by applying finely ground silicate rocks to agricultural areas or forests [stimulated weathering (SW)]. However, it remained unknown if this technique is practical to sequester globally significant amounts of CO(2) under realistic conditions. Applying first estimates of "normal treatment" amounts from a literature review, we report here a theoretical global maximum potential of 65 10(6) t sequestered C a(-1) if SW would be applied homogenously on all agricultural and forested areas of the world. This is equivalent to 0.9% of anthropogenic CO(2) emissions (reference period 2000-2005). First, however, the assumed application of SW on most of the considered areas is not economically feasible because of logistic issues, and second the net-CO(2) sequestration is expected to amount to only a fraction of consumed CO(2) due to the energy demand of the application itself (currently ~11%). Unless progress in application procedures is provided, the recent realistic maximum net-CO(2)-consumption potential is expected to be much smaller than 0.1% of anthropogenic emissions, and the SW would thus not be one of the key techniques to reduce atmospheric CO(2) concentration. However, literature suggests that for some agricultural areas (croplands) and specifically for rice production areas in humid climates, this SW may be a feasible tool to support international efforts to sequester CO(2). SW may be cost effective for those areas if linked to the CO(2)-emission certificate trade in the future, and increases in crop production are taken into account.
18754478	Arsenic (As) exposure from consumption of rice can be substantial, particularly for the population on a subsistence rice diet in South Asia. Paddy rice has a much enhanced As accumulation compared with other cereal crops, and practical measures are urgently needed to decrease As transfer from soil to grain. We investigated the dynamics of As speciation in the soil solution under both flooded and aerobic conditions and compared As accumulation in rice shoot and grain in a greenhouse experiment. Flooding of soil led to a rapid mobilization of As, mainly as arsenite, in the soil solution. Arsenic concentrations in the soil solution were 7-16 and 4-13 times higher under the flooded than under the aerobic conditions in the control without As addition and in the +As treatments (10 mg As kg(-1) as arsenite or arsenate), respectively. Arsenate was the main As species in the aerobic soil. Arsenic accumulation in rice shoots and grain was markedly increased under flooded conditions; grain As concentrations were 10-15-fold higher in flooded than in aerobically grown rice. With increasing total As concentrations in grain, the proportion of inorganic As decreased, while that of dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) increased. The concentration of inorganic As was 2.6-2.9 fold higher in the grain from the flooded treatment than in that from the aerobic treatment. The results demonstrate that a greatly increased bioavailability of As under the flooded conditions is the main reason for an enhanced As accumulation by flooded rice, and growing rice aerobically can dramatically decrease the As transfer from soil to grain.
18755048	The effect of processing (homogenization, lyophilization, acid-extraction) meat products on iron uptake from meat combined with uncooked iron-fortified cereal was evaluated using an in vitro digestion/Caco-2 cell model. Beef was cooked, blended to create smaller meat particles, and combined with electrolytic iron-fortified infant rice cereal. Chicken liver was cooked and blended, lyophilized, or acid-extracted, and combined with FeSO4-fortified wheat flour. In the beef-cereal combination, Caco-2 cell iron uptake, assessed by measuring the ferritin formed by cells, was greater when the beef was blended for the greatest amount of time (360 s) compared with 30 s (P < 0.05). Smaller liver particles (blended for 360 s or lyophilized) significantly enhanced iron uptake compared to liver blended for 60 s (P < 0.001) in the liver-flour combination. Compared to liver blended for 60 s, acid-extraction of liver significantly enhanced iron uptake (P = 0.03) in the liver-flour combination. Homogenization of beef and homogenization, lyophilization, or acid-extraction of chicken liver increases the enhancing effect of meat products on iron absorption in iron-fortified cereals.
18755073	The pre-replication complex (pre-RC), including the core hexameric MCM2-7 complex, ensures that the eukaryotic genome is replicated only once per cell division cycle. In this study, we identified a rice minichromosome maintenance (MCM) homologue (OsMCM2) that functionally complemented fission yeast MCM2 (CDC19) mutants. We found OsMCM2 transcript expression in roots, leaves, and seeds, although expression levels differed slightly among the organs. Likewise, the OsMCM2 protein was ubiquitously expressed, but it was downregulated when nutritients were limiting, indicating that MCM2 expression (and therefore cell cycle progression) requires adequate nutrition. Yeast two-hybrid and GST pull-down assays demonstrated that OsMCM2 interacted with the COP9 signalosome 5 (CSN5). Taken as a whole, our results indicated that OsMCM2 functions as a subunit of the rice MCM complex and interacts with CSN5 during developmental regulation.
18755256	By analysis with microarray data, we found that a gene encoding a novel protein containing five WD40 repeats, was regulated by salt stress in rice and named as SRWD1 (Salt responsive WD40 protein 1). By database searching, additional four SRWD1-like genes (SRWD2-SRWD5) were found in rice genome, and these five SRWD genes formed a novel WD40 subfamily. Phylogenetic analysis showed that plant SRWD proteins divided into four groups. The significant functional divergences during SRWD evolution were found. The tissue-specific and salt responsive expression profiling for SRWD genes was investigated based on microarray data. It was found that all five SRWD genes in rice were regulated by salt stress. Further, we found that SRWD1 was regulated with different patterns by salt stress in two rice cultivars responding differently to salt stress. Our study correlates WD40 proteins with salt stress in plants and provides fundamental information for the further investigation of plant SRWD proteins.
18755262	Fine mapping can accurately identify positional candidate genes for quantitative trait loci (QTLs) but can be time consuming, costly, and, for small-effect QTLs with low heritability, difficult in practice. We propose an alternative approach, which uses meta-analysis of original mapping data to produce a relatively small confidence interval for target QTLs, lists the underlying positional candidates, and then eliminates them using whole-genome transcriptomics. Finally, sequencing is conducted on the remaining candidate genes allowing identification of allelic variation in either expression or protein sequence. We demonstrate the approach using root-growth QTLs on chromosomes 2, 5, and 9 of the Bala x Azucena rice mapping population. Confidence intervals of 10.5, 9.6, and 5.4 cM containing 189, 322, and 81 genes, respectively, were produced. Transcriptomics eliminated 40% of candidate genes and identified nine expression polymorphisms. Sequencing of 30 genes revealed that 57% of the predicted proteins were polymorphic. The limitations of this approach are discussed.
18755596	Glyphosate is one of the most widely used herbicides in cereal-growing regions worldwide. In the present work, the protein expression profile of rice leaves exposed to glyphosate was analyzed in order to investigate the alternative effects of glyphosate on plants. Two-week-old rice leaves were subjected to glyphosate or a reactive oxygen species (ROS) inducing herbicide paraquat, and total soluble proteins were extracted and analyzed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) coupled with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. A total of 25 differentially expressed proteins were identified from the glyphosate treated sample, wherein 18 proteins were up-regulated and 7 proteins were down-regulated. These proteins had shown a parallel expression pattern in response to paraquat. Results from the 2-DE analysis, combined with immunoblotting, clearly revealed that ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) large subunit was significantly decreased by the treatment of both herbicides. An increased accumulation of antioxidant enzymes including ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione S-transferase, thioredoxin h-type, nucleoside diphosphate kinase 1, peroxiredoxin and a superoxide dismutase [Cu-Zn] chloroplast precursor in the glyphosate-treated sample suggests that a glyphosate treatment possibly generates oxidative stress in plants. Moreover, a gene expression analysis of five antioxidant enzymes by Northern blot confirmed their mRNA levels in the rice leaves. A histo-cytochemical investigation with DAB (3,3-diaminobenzidine) to localize H(2)O(2) and increases of the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) concentration revealed that the glyphosate application generates ROS, which resulted in the peroxidation and destruction of lipids in the rice leaves.
18755754	In flowering plants, the male gametophyte, the pollen, develops in the anther. Complex patterns of gene expression in both the gametophytic and sporophytic tissues of the anther regulate this process. The gene expression profiles of the microspore/pollen and the sporophytic tapetum are of particular interest. In this study, a microarray technique combined with laser microdissection (44K LM-microarray) was developed and used to characterize separately the transcriptomes of the microspore/pollen and tapetum in rice. Expression profiles of 11 known tapetum specific-genes were consistent with previous reports. Based on their spatial and temporal expression patterns, 140 genes which had been previously defined as anther specific were further classified as male gametophyte specific (71 genes, 51%), tapetum-specific (seven genes, 5%) or expressed in both male gametophyte and tapetum (62 genes, 44%). These results indicate that the 44K LM-microarray is a reliable tool to analyze the gene expression profiles of two important cell types in the anther, the microspore/pollen and tapetum.
18756083	Rice is the first cultivated plant species to be completely sequenced. Cultivation, in general, is a major factor that contributes to selection pressure of a target species resulting in accelerated changes in genome structure from an original wild species. The genome sequence of cultivated rice can now be used as a standard for comparison with many other cultivated rice species, its wild relatives and other grass species. Several indices define the dynamic nature of genome structure and function. Genome dynamics in rice is described here based on transposon, retrotransposon and polyploidy. Comparative studies with other related grass species based on the principle of synteny are expected to generate invaluable information that will clarify the trail that led to the present cultivated rice as well as the trail that will lead to its further improvement.
18756101	To produce polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) from inexpensive substrates by bacteria, vegetable-oil-degrading bacteria were isolated from a rice field using enrichment cultivation. The isolated Pseudomonas sp. strain DR2 showed clear orange or red spots of accumulated PHA granules when grown on phosphate and nitrogen limited medium containing vegetable oil as the sole carbon source and stained with Nile blue A. Up to 37.34% (w/w) of intracellular PHA was produced from corn oil, which consisted of three major 3-hydroxyalkanoates; octanoic (C8:0, 37.75% of the total 3-hydroxyalkanoate content of PHA), decanoic (C10:0, 36.74%), and dodecanoic (C12:0, 11.36%). Pseudomonas sp. strain DR2 accumulated up to 23.52% (w/w) of PHAMCL from waste vegetable oil. The proportion of 3- hydroxyalkanoate of the waste vegetable-oil-derived PHA [hexanoic (5.86%), octanoic (45.67%), decanoic (34.88%), tetradecanoic (8.35%), and hexadecanoic (5.24%)] showed a composition ratio different from that of the corn-oil-derived PHA. Strain DR2 used three major fatty acids in the same ratio, and linoleic acid was the major source of PHA production. Interestingly, the production of PHA in Pseudomonas sp. strain DR2 could not occur in either acetate- or butyrate-amended media. Pseudomonas sp. strain DR2 accumulated a greater amount of PHA than other well-studied strains (Chromobacterium violaceum and Ralstonia eutropha H16) when grown on vegetable oil. The data showed that Pseudomonas sp. strain DR2 was capable of producing PHA from waste vegetable oil.
18756103	Nuruk, which is a natural inoculator and source of amylolytic enzymes, is used in Korean traditional rice wine. A methanol extract of nuruk (NE) attenuated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- induced nitrite and interleukin (IL)-6 in RAW 264.7 cells. Both the n-hexane and water fractions from NE (MEH and MW, respectively) inhibited the production of nitrite and IL-6 in RAW 264.7 cells. MEH and MW also inhibited the LPS-induced inducible nitric oxide synthase expression. Further, and MEH protected against the LPS-induced activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. Together, these results indicate that nuruk may contribute to the anti-inflammatory and cancer-preventive effects of Korean traditional rice wine.
18757098	A field survey was conducted in arsenic impacted and non-impacted paddies of Bangladesh to assess how arsenic levels in rice (Oryza sativa L.) grain are related to soil and shoot concentrations. Ten field sites from an arsenic contaminated tubewell irrigation region (Faridpur) were compared to 10 field sites from a non-affected region (Gazipur). Analysis of the overall data set found that both grain and shoot total arsenic concentrations were highly correlated (P<0.001) with soil arsenic. Median arsenic concentrations varied by 14, 10 and 3 fold for soil, shoot and grain respectively comparing the two regions. The reason for the sharp decline in the magnitude of difference between Gazipur and Faridpur for grain arsenic was due to an exponential decline in the grain/shoot arsenic concentration ratio with increasing shoot arsenic concentration. When the Bangladesh data were compared to EU and US soil-shoot-grain transfers, the same generic pattern could be found with the exception that arsenic was more efficiently transferred to grain from soil/shoot in the Bangladesh grown plants. This may reflect climatic or cultivar differences.
18757796	Curcuminoids, which are produced specifically by plants of the order Zingiberales, have long been used as food additives because of their aromatic, stimulant and colouring properties and as traditional Asian medicines because of their anti-tumour, antioxidant and hepatoprotective activities. Curcuminoids are therefore attractive targets for metabolic engineering. An artificial curcuminoid biosynthetic pathway, including reactions of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) from the yeast Rhodotorula rubra, 4-coumarate : CoA ligase (4CL) from Lithospermum erythrorhizon and curcuminoid synthase (CUS) from rice (Oryza sativa), a type III polyketide synthase, was constructed in Escherichia coli for the production of curcuminoids. Cultivation of the recombinant E. coli cells in the presence of tyrosine or phenylalanine, or both, led to production of bisdemethoxycurcumin, dicinnamoylmethane and cinnamoyl-p-coumaroylmethane. Another E. coli system carrying 4CL and CUS genes was also used for high-yield production of curcuminoids from exogenously supplemented phenylpropanoid acids: p-coumaric acid, cinnamic acid and ferulic acid. The yields of curucminoids were up to approximately 100 mg l(-1). Furthermore, this system gave approximately 60 mg curcumin l(-1) from 10 g rice bran pitch, an industrial waste discharged during rice edible oil production, as a source of ferulic acid.
18757946	The genome of modern sugarcane cultivars is highly polyploid (approximately 12x), aneuploid, of interspecific origin, and contains 10 Gb of DNA. Its size and complexity represent a major challenge for the isolation of agronomically important genes. Here we report on the first attempt to isolate a gene from sugarcane by map-based cloning, targeting a durable major rust resistance gene (Bru1). We describe the genomic strategies that we have developed to overcome constraints associated with high polyploidy in the successive steps of map-based cloning approaches, including diploid/polyploid syntenic shuttle mapping with two model diploid species (sorghum and rice) and haplotype-specific chromosome walking. Their applications allowed us (i) to develop a high-resolution map including markers at 0.28 and 0.14 cM on both sides and 13 markers cosegregating with Bru1 and (ii) to develop a physical map of the target haplotype that still includes two gaps at this stage due to the discovery of an insertion specific to this haplotype. These approaches will pave the way for the development of future map-based cloning approaches for sugarcane and other complex polyploid species.
18758172	The genomic sequence of the nucleolar organizing region (NOR) in rice has not been characterized fully because of the difficulty in assembling repetitive sequences in silico. Here, we used a cytogenetic approach to elucidate the internal structure of the NOR. We detected one locus of the 18S rRNA genes on 'Nipponbare' chromosome. High-resolution fiber-fluorescence in situ hybridization made it possible to visualize each rRNA gene unit in the array of rRNA genes. Signals of pairs of alternating 18S and 25S rRNA genes were detected uniformly along the DNA fiber. Intergenic spacers were shorter than the transcribed region. The rRNA genes were infrequently interrupted. These and previous results based on the sequencing of genome fragments, PCR analysis and Southern blot hybridization suggest that the internal region of the NOR is filled with a uniform array of canonical rRNA genes separated by spacers carrying three 254-bp sub-repeats.
18758713	The first intron (EPI) of rice 5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase gene was isolated by PCR from one clone with genomic EPSP synthase gene. Sequence analysis showed that the first intron is 704 bp in length with 36.2% G+C content. To investigate its effect on expression of foreign gene, we inserted the first intron between CaMV35S promoter and beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. The transient expression results showed that GUS could be expressed effectively with EPI. The GUS activity in transgenic tobacco shows that the EPI can greatly enhance the expression level of beta-glucuronidase (P < 0.01) compared with transgenic tobacco without the first intron, and 3-to 6-fold increase in GUS activity in some transgenic tobaccos. Northern blot indicated the first intron was spliced from GUS pre-mRNA, and the steady-state mRNA levels of GUS with EPI in transgenic tobaccos were higher than that in transgenic tobacco without EPI, which suggested that the first intron of EPSP was a non-translated intron.
18758715	Glycine-rich proteins (GRPs) belong to a kind of important structural proteins of plant cell walls. The expression of GRP genes is regulated spatially and developmentally as well as by various environmental stresses, thus providing a good model for the study of plant gene expression. We obtained the genomic sequence of a new GRP gene (Osgrp- 2) from a rice genomic library. The transcription start site of Osgrp- 2 was determined by 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) and a 2.4-kb promoter sequence was thus delimited. The spatial and developmental expression pattern as well as the wound-inducible character of Osgrp- 2 in rice plants was analyzed in detail. Furthermore, the gene was mapped onto rice chromosome 10 by analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP).
18758723	Gelatinization temperature (GT) is an important parameter for evaluating the cooking and eating quality of rice besides amylose content (AC). The inheritance of the genes affecting GT has been widely studied and is considered to be controlled by a major gene. Here, we report the map-based cloning of rice ALK that encodes the soluble starch synthase II (SSSII). Comparison between the DNA sequences from different rice varieties, together with the results obtained with digestion of the rice seeds in alkali solution, indicates that the base substitutions in coding sequence of ALK may cause the alteration in GT.
18758744	Field resistances (FR) against rice blast are highly evaluated by breeders for their durability, in contrast to the conspicuous but often less durable true resistances. However, lack of efficient systems for evaluation of resistance has delayed their practical application. Kahei, an upland domestic cv., is known for its very high FR against rice blast. We fine-mapped its highest quantitative trait loci (QTL), qBFR4-1, using residual heterozygosity of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) and our semi-natural rice blast inoculation/evaluation system in the greenhouse, with comparable accuracy to the true resistance genes. This system enabled reproducible high-density infection, and consequently allowed quantification of the resistance level in individual plants. The target region was first narrowed down to about 1 Mb around at 32 Mb from the top of chromosome 4 in the Nipponbare genome, with the upland evaluation system assessing the F7 generation of Koshihikari (lowland, FR: very weak) x Kahei (upland, FR: very strong) RILs. Then, F9 plants (4,404)--siblings of hetero F8 plants at the region--were inoculated with rice blast in a greenhouse using the novel inoculation system, and individual resistance levels were diagnosed for fine QTL analysis and graphical genotyping. Thus, the resistance gene was fine-mapped within 300 kb at 31.2-31.5 Mb on chromosome 4, and designated Pikahei-1(t). By annotation analysis, seven resistance gene analog (RGA) ORFs of nucleotide-binding-site and leucine-rich-repeat (NBS-LRR)-type were found in the center of the region as the most likely candidate counterparts of the resistance gene. This is similar in structure to the recently reported Pik cluster region, suggesting that most of the other dominant QTLs of the FRs may have similar RGA structures.
18758984	A study was conducted on twenty indigenous goat kids allocated into two different groups. All animals were offered ad libitum rice straw and berseem hay (40:60). Group I (T(1)) was fed concentrate mixture (100 g/d). Group II (T(2)) was supplemented with urea molasses mineral block (200 g/d). The experiment lasted for 90 days. There was significant decrease in serum sodium (60.68 mEq/L), increase in serum potassium (34.50 mEq/L) and increased activity of AST (340.42 U/L) and ALT (164.96 U/L) was observed in kids of group T(2) in comparison to the controls (T(1)). On histopathological examination mild degenerative changes in kidney of group T(2) with congestion in intertubular vessel, granular cytoplasm of the epithelial cells in PCT and DCT, necrosis and swelling of the epithelial cells, congestion of vessels and cloudy swelling was observed in PCT and DCT. Albuminious mass was also present in tubule. On histopathological observation of liver of kid of group T(2) oedema in liver parenchyma and proliferation of fibrious tissue in periportal area was observed.
18759000	The small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) are a diverse family of molecular chaperones. It is well established that these proteins are crucial components of the plant heat shock response. They also have important roles in other stress responses and in normal development. We have conducted a comparative sequence analysis of the sHSPs in three complete angiosperms genomes: Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, and Oryza sativa. Our phylogenetic analysis has identified four additional plant sHSP subfamilies and thus has increased the number of plant sHSP subfamilies from 7 to 11. We have also identified a number of novel sHSP genes in each genome that lack close homologs in other genomes. Using publicly available gene expression data and predicted secondary structures, we have determined that the sHSPs in plants are far more diverse in sequence, expression profile, and in structure than had been previously known. Some of the newly identified subfamilies are not stress regulated, may not possess the highly conserved large oligomer structure, and may not even function as molecular chaperones. We found no consistent evolutionary patterns across the three species studied. For example, gene conversion was found among the sHSPs in O. sativa but not in A. thaliana or P. trichocarpa. Among the three species, P. trichocarpa had the most sHSPs. This was due to an expansion of the cytosolic I sHSPs that was not seen in the other two species. Our analysis indicates that the sHSPs are a dynamic protein family in angiosperms with unexpected levels of diversity.
18759022	A bifactorial endosperm box (EB), which contains an endosperm motif (EM) and a GCN4 motif, was found in rice Wx promoter. EB was found in 5' upstream region of many seed storage protein genes accounting for these genes expression exclusive in endosperm among various cereals. Many reports demonstrated that the bZIP transcription activators isolated from wheat, barley and maize, etc. regulate the gene expression through binding to the GCN4 motif. In this research, we showed that GCN4 sequence could be recognized by nuclear proteins extracted from immature rice seeds. Furthermore, a rice bZIP protein, REB was isolated by using PCR method and REB fusion protein was expressed in E. coli. The results of gel shift analysis showed that REB could recognize and bind to the GCN4 motif in the Wx gene in addition to binding to the target sequence in the promoter of alpha-globulin.
18759033	Despite large numbers of studies about defense response, processes involved in the resistance of plants to incompatible pathogens are still largely uncharacterized. The objective of this study was to identify genes involved in defense response by cDNA array analysis and to gain knowledge about the functions of the genes involved in defense response. Approximately 20000 rice cDNA clones were arrayed on nylon filters. RNA samples isolated from different rice lines after infection with incompatible strains or isolates of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae or Pyricularia grisea, respectively, were used to synthesize cDNA as probes for screening the cDNA arrays. A total of 100 differentially expressed unique sequences were identified from 5 pathogen-host combinations. Fifty-three sequences were detected as showing enhanced expression and 47 sequences were detected as showing repressed expression after pathogen infection. Sequence analysis revealed that most of the 100 sequences had various degrees of homology with genes in databases which encode or putatively encode transcription regulating proteins, translation regulating proteins, transport proteins, kinases, metabolic enzymes, and proteins involved in other functions. Most of the genes have not been previously reported as being involved in the disease resistance response in rice. The results from cDNA arrays, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and RNA gel blot analysis suggest that activation or repression of most of these genes might occur commonly in the defense response.
18759034	Characteristics of photosynthetic gas exchange, photoinhibition and C(4) pathway enzyme activities in both flag leaves and lemma were compared between a superhigh-yield rice (Oryza sativa L.) hybrid, Liangyoupeijiu and a traditional rice hybrid, Shanyou63. Liangyoupeijiu had a similar light saturated assimilation rate (Asat) to Shanyou63, but a much higher apparent quantum yield (AQY), carboxylation efficiency (CE) and quantum yield of CO(2) fixation (PhiCO(2)). Liangyoupeijiu also showed a higher resistance to photoinhibition and higher non-radiative energy dissipation associated with the xanthophyll cycle than Shanyou63 when subjected to strong light. In addition, Liangyoupeijiu had higher activities of the C(4) pathway enzymes in both flag leaves and lemmas than Shanyou63. These results indicate that higher light and CO(2) use efficiency, higher resistance to photoinhibition and C(4) pathway in both flag leaf and lemma may contribute to the higher yield of the superhigh-yield rice hybrid, Liangyoupeijiu.
18759035	To identify salt stress-responsive genes, we constructed a cDNA library with the salttolerant rice cultivar, Lansheng. About 15000 plasmids were extracted and dotted on filters with Biomeck 2000 HDRT system or by hand. Thirty genes were identified to display altered expression levels responding to 150 mmol/L NaCl. Among them eighteen genes were up-regulated and the remainders downregulated. Twenty-seven genes have their homologous genes in GenBank Databases. The expression of twelve genes was studied by Northern analysis. Based on the functions, these genes can be classified into five categories, including photosynthesis-related gene, transportrelated gene, metabolismrelated gene, stress-or resistancerelated gene and the others with various functions. The results showed that salt stress influenced many aspects of rice growth. Some of these genes may play important roles in plant salt tolerance.
18759036	Some characteristics of the rice (Oryza sativa L.) root were found in the experiment of unilaterally irradiating the roots which were planted in water: (i) All the seminal roots, adventitious roots and their branched roots bent away from light, and their curvatures ranged from 25 degrees to 60 degrees . The curvature of adventitious root of the higher node was often larger than that of the lower node, and even larger than that of the seminal root, (ii) The negative phototropic bending of the rice root was mainly due to the larger growth increment of root-tip cells of the irradiated side compared with that of the shaded side, (iii) Root cap was the site of light perception. If root cap was shaded while the root was irradiated the root showed no negative phototropism, and the root lost the characteristic of negative phototropism when root cap was divested. Rice root could resume the characteristic of negative phototropism when the new root cap grew up, if the original cells of root cap were well protected while root cap was divested, (iv) The growth increment and curvature of rice root were both influenced by light intensity. Within the range of 0-100 mumol . m(2) -s(-1), the increasing of light intensity resulted in the decreasing of the growth increment and the increasing of the curvature of rice root, (v) The growth increment and the curvature reached the maximum at 30 degrees C with the temperature treatment of 10-40 degrees C. (vi) Blue-violet light could prominently induce the negative phototropism of rice root, while red light had no such effect. (vii) The auxin (IAA) in the solution, as a very prominent influencing factor, inhibited the growth, the negative phototropism and the gravitropism of rice root when the concentration of IAA increased. The response of negative phototropism of rice root disappeared when the concentration of IAA was above 10 mg . L(-1).
18759037	Rice has many characteristics of a model plant. The recent completion of the draft of the rice genome represents an important advance in our knowledge of plant biology and also has an important contribution to the understanding of general genomic evolution. Besides the rice genome finishing map, the next urgent step for rice researchers is to annotate the genes and noncoding functional sequences. The recent work shows that noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) play significant roles in biological systems. We have explored all the known small RNAs (a kind of ncRNA) within rice genome and other six species sequences, including Arabidopsis, maize, yeast, worm, mouse and pig. As a result we find 160 out of 552 small RNAs (sRNAs) in database have homologs in 108 rice scaffolds, and almost all of them (99.41%) locate in intron regions of rice by gene predication. 19 sRNAs only appear in rice. More importantly, we find two special LJ14 sRNAs: one is located in a set of sRNA ZMU14SNR9(s) which only appears in three plants, 86% sequences of them can be compared as the same sequence in rice, Arabidopsis and maize; the other conserved sRNA XLHS7CU14 has a segment which appears in almost all these species from plants to animals. All these results indicate that sRNA do not have evident borderline between plants and animals.
18759038	The availability of the draft genome sequence of Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica has made it possible to study the rice tRNA genes. A total of 596 tRNA genes, including 3 selenocysteine tRNA genes and one suppressor tRNA gene are identified in 127551 rice contigs. There are 45 species of tRNA genes and the revised wobble hypothesis proposed by Guthrie and Abelson is perfectly obeyed. The relationship between codon usage and the number of corresponding tRNA genes is discussed. Redundancy may exist in the present list of tRNA genes and novel ones may be found in the future. A set of 33 tRNA genes is discovered in the complete chloroplast genome of Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica. These tRNA genes are identical to those in ssp. japonica identified by us independently from the origional annotation.
18759039	We discovered 528 putative cytochrome P450s (P450s) in Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica using Arabidopsis thaliana P450s as database. Those putative rice P450s are thought to belong to 40 families classified in Arabidopsis thaliana. We compared distributions of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa P450s and found the two species have similar distribution patterns. However, family distributions of two species also have some differences. For example, in rice, the gene number in families of CYP71, CYP72, CYP76, CYP89, CYP94 and CYP709 is more than twice that in Arabidopsis thaliana; and there are 33 CYP705 members in Arabidopsis thaliana but none in rice. We also found gene members in CYP71 and CYP81 are organized as tandem arrays repeated in the rice genome; maybe they are duplications in the evolutionary event. Furthermore, we accumulated expression sequence tag (EST) evidence for 263 putative rice P450s, which are expressed at transcriptional level and more likely to be true P450s.
18759040	Quantitative disease resistance conferred by quantitative trait loci (QTLs) is presumably of wider spectrum and durable. Forty-four cDNA clones, representing 44 defense-responsive genes, were fine mapped to 56 loci distributed on 9 of the 12 rice chromosomes. The locations of 32 loci detected by 27 cDNA clones were associated with previously identified resistance QTLs for different rice diseases, including blast, bacterial blight, sheath blight and yellow mottle virus. The loci detected by the same multiple-copy cDNA clones were frequently located on similar locations of different chromosomes. Some of the multiple loci detected by the same clones were all associated with resistance QTLs. These results suggest that some of the genes may be important components in regulation of defense responses against pathogen invasion and they may be the candidates for studying the mechanism of quantitative disease resistance in rice.
18759048	The shikimate pathway enzyme 5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase (EPSPs) is the target of nonselective herbicide glyphosate. A partial rice epsps cDNA was generated by RT-PCR with primers designed according to EST sequence in GenBank and used as probe for rice genomic library screening. In a screen of approximately 8.0 x10(4) clones from the rice genomic library, sixteen positive clones were obtained, which strongly hybridized to the probe. One clone, E11, was selected for further analysis and the full-length 3661 bp rice epsps genomic sequence was obtained. Sequence analysis and homologous comparison revealed that epsps gene is composed of 8 exons and 7 introns. Analysis by restriction fragment length polymorphism with the probe of rice epsps cDNA fragment confirmed that rice epsps is located on chromosome 6 with an indicajaponica (ZYQ8-JX17) double-haploid (DH) population. This is the first report on the EPSP synthase from monocotyledons.
18759229	The genus Anabaena is one of the commonly observed genera in the rice fields in South-east Asia. Diversity analyses of a set of 70 Anabaena strains (including 67 strains isolated from diverse rice agro ecologies of India, and three International Reference/Type strains), was carried out using morphological and molecular datasets. The pattern of growth in liquid and solid medium and microscopic observations revealed tremendous diversity in the Anabaena germplasm analysed. The species wise distribution in different soil types and soil pH revealed that Anabaena iyengarii was present at pH ranging from 5.5-8.5 and all the species of Anabaena except A. oscillarioides were present in alluvium soils. Molecular profiling using primers based on HipTG, STRR(mod) and STRR1A sequences generated specific fingerprints for individual isolates. STRR1A was observed to be the most informative and useful for differentiating the isolates. Analyses of a combined dataset, including both morphological and molecular data, proved highly effective in discerning the genetic relationships among the 70 Anabaena strains. The present study provided useful information for the development of a comprehensive database based on the distribution of Anabaena strains in diverse agro ecologies of India and identified useful primers for PCR based differentiation of isolates.
18760414	The HPLC method presented here for the quantification of metal-binding thiols is considerably shorter than most previously published methods. It is a sensitive and highly reproducible method that separates monobromobimane tagged monothiols (cysteine, glutathione, gamma-glutamylcysteine) along with polythiols (PC(2), PC(3), PC(4) and PC(5)) within 23min from a wide variety of samples. Total run time of the method is 35min. Detection limits for thiols is 33fmol for 10microlL injection. This method will be applicable to study the metal detoxification mechanisms for a wide variety of cell cultures and tissues of plants and trees including algae, Arabidopsis, crambe, rice, and red spruce.
18760920	Two novel two-step pretreatments for enzymatic hydrolysis of rice hull (RH) were proposed to lower the severity requirement of fungal pretreatment time. They consisted of a mild physical or chemical step (ultrasonic and H(2)O(2)) and a subsequent biological treatment (Pleurotus ostreatus). The combined pretreatments led to significant increases of the lignin degradation than those of one step pretreatments. After enzymatic hydrolysis of the pretreated RH, the net yields of total soluble sugar (TS) and glucose (G) increased greatly. The combined pretreatment of H(2)O(2) (2%, 48 h) and P. ostreatus (18 d) was more effective than sole pretreatment of P. ostreatus for 60 d. It could remarkably shorten the residence time and reduce the losses of carbohydrates. Ligninase analyses and SEM observations indicated that the enhancing of the efficiency could possibly attribute to the structure disruption of the RH during the first pretreatment step. So, the combined pretreatment could be recommended to different lignocellulosic materials for enzyme based conversions.
18761116	A new method for the analysis of phenoxy acid herbicide residues in rice, based on the use of liquid extraction/partition and dispersive solid phase extraction (dispersive-SPE) followed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-ESI-MS/MS), is reported. 5% (v/v) formic acid in acetonitrile as the extraction solvent and inclusion of citrate buffer helped partitioning of all the analytes into the acetonitrile phase. The extract was then cleaned up by dispersive-SPE using C18 and alumina neutral as selective sorbents. Further optimization of sample preparation and determination allowed recoveries of between 45 and 104% for all 13 phenoxy acid herbicides with RSD values lower than 13.3% at 5.0microgkg(-1) concentration level. Limit of detections (LODs) of 0.5microgkg(-1) or below were attained for all 13 phenoxy acids. Quantitative analysis was done in the multiple-reaction monitoring (MRM) mode using two combinations of selected precursor ion and product ion transition for each compound. This developed method produced relatively higher recoveries of the acid herbicides with a smaller range of variation and less susceptibility to matrix effects, than the original QuEChERS (Quick, Easy, Cheap, Effective, Rugged, and Safe) method.
18761494	The WNK (with no lysine kinase) protein kinase gene family may be involved in regulating ion homeostasis and other physiological processes in mammals. WNK-like genes have also been identified in plants, including nine in Arabidopsis, designated AtWNK1-AtWNK9. However, it is not clear if there are further plant WNK genes, and what the evolutionary relationships are among these genes, nor if these genes have functions other than their roles in regulating circadian rhythms and vacuolar H(+)-ATPase. In the present study, we found a tenth Arabidopsis WNK gene, designated AtWNK10. Further phylogenetic analysis of Arabidopsis and rice WNK genes suggests that the most recent common ancestor of monocots and eudicots had 4-8 WNK genes, and that the WNK gene family has experienced duplication events and possible gene losses. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR revealed that all Arabidopsis WNK genes except AtWNK6 are expressed in organs from the seedling to the flowering plant. T-DNA knockout mutations in the AtWNK2, AtWNK5 and AtWNK8 genes in different phylogenetic clades caused early flowering. In contrast, a T-DNA knockout wnk1 mutant had a much delayed flowering time. In addition, the transcript levels of several genes in the photoperiod pathway for flowering, such as ELF4, TOC1, CO and FT, were altered in atwnk mutants. Taken together, our results suggest that the Arabidopsis WNK gene family regulates flowering time by modulating the photoperiod pathway.
18761634	Medicago truncatula IPD3 (MtIPD3) is an interacting protein of DMI3 (does not make infections 3), a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CCaMK) essential for both arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) and rhizobial symbioses. However, the function of MtIPD3 in root symbioses has not been demonstrated in M. truncatula, because of a lack of knockout mutants for functional analysis. In this study, the availability of IPD3 knockout mutants in rice (Oryza sativa) was exploited to test the function of OsIPD3 in AM symbiosis. Three independent retrotransposon Tos17 insertion lines of OsIPD3 were selected and the phenotypes characterized upon inoculation with the AM fungus Glomus intraradices. Phenotypic and genetic analyses revealed that the Osipd3 mutants were unable to establish a symbiotic association with G. intraradices. In conclusion, IPD3 represents a novel gene required for root symbiosis with AM fungi in plants.
18761654	The non-structural protein Pns12 of Rice dwarf virus is one of the early proteins expressed in cultured insect cells, and it is one of 12 proteins that initiate the formation of the viroplasm, the putative site of viral replication. Pns4 is also a non-structural protein, visible as minitubules after nucleation of the viroplasm. We introduced Pns12- and Pns4-specific RNA interference (RNAi) constructs into rice plants. The resultant transgenic plants accumulated short interfering RNAs specific to the constructs. The progeny of rice plants with Pns12-specific RNAi constructs, after self-fertilization, were strongly resistant to viral infection. By contrast, resistance was less apparent in the case of rice plants with Pns4-specific RNAi constructs, and delayed symptoms appeared in some plants of each line. Our results suggest that interference with the expression of a protein that is critical for viral replication, such as the viroplasm matrix protein Pns12, might be a practical and effective way to control viral infection in crop plants.
18762881	To study the relationship between the structures of rice and sorghum psbA 3' UTR and gene expressional activity, six chimeric luc genes that encode luciferase under control of rice or sorghum psbA 5' UTR and 3' UTR or only 5' UTR were constructed. The levels of LUC accumulation inE. coli and the transcript stability in soluble protein extracts of rice, sorghum chloroplast and E. coli were examined respectively, and a detailed analysis about the function of these two 3' UTR has been carried out. Here the regulation effect of these 3' UTR are reported: (i) When having the same promoter, the chimeric genes with rice 3' UTR produce LUC much more than that with sorghum 3' UTR; (ii) elimination of 3' UTR results in the fluctuation of LUC accumulation no matter whether it is under control of rice or sorghum psbA 5' UTR; (iii) rice psbA 3' UTR exhibits a greater effect on stabilizing transcripts; (iv) psbA 3' IR-RNAs are more stable in chloroplast protein extracts than in E.coli protein extracts.
18762896	The characteristics of dry matter production before and after heading and the relationships between photosynthesis of flag leaves and dry matter accumulation in panicles were investigated on super high-yielding rice cv. Xieyou 9308 (the yield of up to 12 t/ha) with rice cv. Xieyou 63 as a control. The results showed that (i) the capacity of dry matter production before and after heading in Xieyou 9308, i.e. biomass and daily dry matter production, was remarkably higher than that in Xieyou 63, especially after heading; (ii) CO(2) assimilation capacity in flag leaves in Xieyou 9308, namely Leaf Source Capacity (LSC), was also significantly higher than that in Xieyou 63, and the supply of photosynthate in leaves and the demand of grain filling were completely synchronous in Xieyou 9308, but photosynthetic function in flag leaves in Xieyou 63 declined sharply 20 days after heading and it was not enough to meet the demand of grain filling. These results confirmed that high efficient photosynthetic function in leaves after heading and its complete synchronization with grain filling are the key approaches to super high yield of rice.
18762904	For years discovery and identification of the cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) resource in wild rice is the most intriguing events in breeding field. orfH79, a chimeric gene in mitochondria, has been suggested being the determinant for Honglian CMS in rice. In this report orfH79 gene as molecular marker to screen the wild rice, we found eight accessions with orfH79 gene in the total 42 investigated objects. Sequence analysis revealed that there were a total of nine nucleotide substitutions resulting in the change of nine amino acids in the newly identified orfH79 in wild rice, which further fell into seven haplotypes. In order to investigate the underlying relationship between orfH79 haplotypes and the corresponding fertility restorers, four accessions were selected with different orfH79 haplotype as female parents to hybridize the Honglian maintainer line, Yuetai B. After eight consecutive recurrent backcrosses, four alloplasmic CMS lines with different orfH79 haplotype were developed. Microscopic observation exhibited that their pollen grains were spherical and clear in 1% I(2)-KI solution same as that of Honglian CMS line. Moreover, these four CMS lines displayed various fertility restoring model through test cross, suggesting that each orfH79 haplotye represents a new CMS type and corresponds to their specific Rf allele.
18763047	Cereal crops such as maize and rice are considered attractive for vaccine production and oral delivery. Here, we evaluated the rice Oryza sativa for production of As16-an antigen protective against the roundworm Ascaris suum. The antigen was produced as a chimeric protein fused with cholera toxin B subunit (CTB), and its expression level in the endosperm reached 50 microg/g seed. Feeding the transgenic (Tg) rice seeds to mice elicited an As16-specific serum antibody response when administered in combination with cholera toxin (CT) as the mucosal adjuvant. Although omitting the adjuvant from the vaccine formulation resulted in failure to develop the specific immune response, subcutaneous booster immunization with bacterially expressed As16 induced the antibody response, indicating priming capability of the Tg rice. Tg rice/CT-fed mice orally administered A. suum eggs had a lower lung worm burden than control mice. This suggests that the rice-delivered antigen functions as a prophylactic edible vaccine for controlling parasitic infection in animals.
18763065	One transgenic rice line lacking Cry1Ab expression product was screened in the progenies of Agrobacterium-transformed transgenic rice variety Zhong 8215 with a cry1Ab gene under field releasing conditions by using GUS histochemical assay and Western blot. Molecular hybridization results revealed that the cry1Ab gene was silenced in the transgenic rice variety Zhong 8215 and two copies of ubiquitin promoter were integrated into the rice genome. The silencing of cry1Ab gene in transgenic rice was found to be due to the methylation of the ubiquitin promoter as revealed by methylation analysis. Meanwhile, different concentrations of demethylation reagent 5-azacytidine combining with different treatment time were employed to treat the silenced transgenic rice seeds. The results indicated that 5-azacytidine could reactivate 8%-30% of the silenced transgenic rice plants and the expression level of the reactivated cry1Ab transgene could reach as high as 0.147% of the total soluble protein. Treatment with low concentration of 5-azacytidine (45 mg/L for 1 d and 2 d) could lead to the highest reactivation ratio and the highest expression level of the cry1Ab gene.
18763097	A rice mutant, G069, characteristic of few tiller numbers, was found in anther culture progeny from the F(1) hybrid between an indica-japonica cross, Gui630x02428. The mutant has another two major features: delayed tillering development and yellowing apex and margin on the mature leaves. As a donor parent, G069 was further backcrossed with the recurrent parent,02428, for two turns to develop aBC (2)F(2) population. Genetic analysis in the BC (2)F(2) population showed that the traits of few-tillering and yellowing apex and margin on the mature leaves were controlled by one recessive gene. A pool of equally mixed genomic DNA, from few-tillering individual plants in BC (2)F(2), was constructed to screen polymorphism with simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers in comparison with the 02428 genome. One SSR marker and three restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers were found possibly linked with the recessive gene. By using these markers, the gene of few-tillering was mapped on chromosome 2 between RFLP marker C424 and S13984 with a genetic distance of 2.4 cM and 0.6 cM, respectively. The gene is designated ft1.
18763125	Cis-acting elements containing CCAAT core sequence are located in 5' upstream regions of numerous eukaryotic genes. CCAAT-binding factors interact with thesecis acting elements as heteromeric complex and therefore control the gene transcription. CCAAT binding factors contain at least three subunits and each subunit alone cannot bind to CCAAT box. The cloning of a rice cDNA called RAPB which homologizes to yeast HAP2 (one of the subunits in CCAAT-binding factors) using yeast one-hybrid system and functional complementation approaches is reported. The analytic results indicate that the deduced amino acid sequence in the C terminal of RAPB also contains the functional domain of 60 amino acids highly homologous with yeast HAP2, whereas the deduced amino acids in N terminal region differs significantly, and no Gln-rich region is found in the RAPB protein as in HAP2. The Southern blotting analysis demonstrates that only one copy of RAPB gene exists in rice genome.
18763129	Comparative analysis reveals remarkahle homology between the sequences of bothpsbA gene nucleotides and the inferred amino acids of sorghum, a C(4) plant, and those of rice, a C(3) plant. The 5'-noncoding region of sorghumpsbA gene contains the conservative promoter elements, "-35" element and "-10" element, like the prokaryote and the promoter element, TATA box, like the eukaryote. As compared with that of the rice, an extra sequence of 7 bp is found in the leader sequence of the mRNA in the former. Using anin vitro system, it has been demonstrated that protein factor exists in sorghum chloroplast protein extract which specifically hinds to the 5'-noncoding region ofpsbA gene. Measurement of the expression of luciferase shows a 2-5 time greater reaction of the expression plasmids pALqs which contain leader region of sorghumpsbA gene than that of the expression plasmids pALqr which contain leader region of ricepsbA gene inE. coli.
18763148	A mutant of spikelet differentiation in rice called frizzle panicle (fzp) was discovered in the progeny of a cross between Oryza sativa ssp. indica cv. V20B and cv. Hua1B. The mutant exhibits normal plant morphology but has apparently fewer tillers. The most striking change in fzp is that its spikelet differentiation is completely blocked, with unlimited subsequent rachis branches generated from the positions where spikelets normally develop in wild-type plants. Genetic analysis suggests that fzp is controlled by a single recessive gene, which is temporarily named fzp(t). Based on its mutant phenotype, fzp(t) represents a key gene controlling spikelet differentiation. Some F(2) mutant plants derived from various genetic background appeared as the "middle type", suggesting that the action of fzp(t) is influenced by the presence of redundant, modifier or interactive genes. By using simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers and bulked segregant analysis (BSA) method, fzp(t) gene was mapped in the terminal region of the long arm of chromosome 7, with RM172 and RM248 on one side, 3.2 cM and 6.4 cM from fzp(t), and RM18 and RM234 on the other side, 23.1 cM and 26.3 cM from fzp(t), respectively. These results will facilitate the positional cloning and function studies of the gene.
18763167	Ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI; EC 1.1.1.86) catalyzes the second common step in branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis. The catalyzed process consists of two steps, the first of which is an alkyl migration from one carbon atom to its neighboring atom. The likely transition state is a cyclopropane derivative, thus a new series of cyclopropanecarbonyl thiourea derivatives were designed and synthesized involving a one-pot phase transfer catalyzed reaction. Rice KARI inhibitory activity of these compounds were evaluated and the 5-butyl substituted (3e) and 3-pyridinyl substituted (3n) compounds reached 100% at 100 microg x mL(- 1). Structure-activity relationship shows that longer chain derivatives had higher KARI inhibitory activity. Meanwhile substitution of the 4-position of the benzene ring had higher KARI inhibitory activity than that of the 2 and 3-position. Auto-Dock was used to predict the binding mode of 3n. This was done by analyzing the interaction of compound 3n with the active sites of the available spinach KARI. This was in accord with the results analyzed by the frontier molecular orbital theory.
18763528	In order to study whether disposing electronic wastes and secondary metal smelting could cause an arsenic pollution in the environment or not, Luqiao town, Taizhou City, Zhejiang Province was selected as a study area. The main purpose of this paper was to characterize arsenic contents in the local environment, including waters, sediments, soils and rice, and to assess the potential risk to humans. Additionally, the arsenic spatial distribution property and arsenic uptake-translocation rule in soil-rice system were also studied. The results showed that the average arsenic levels in the surface water and the groundwater were 8.26 microg/L and 18.52 microg/L, respectively, which did not exceed the limiting value of Chinese Environment Standards class III . Whereas,some groundwater exceeded the recommended standard by the WHO for drinking water (10 microg/L). The arsenic (on average 7.11 mg/kg) in paddy soils and arsenic (on average 6.17 mg/kg) in the vegetable garden soils were lower than the value recommended by the National Standard (level I). The average arsenic contents in brown rice and husks were 165.1 microg/kg and 144.2 microg/kg, which was also lower than the Chinese Foods Quality Standard. The arsenic contents between the corresponding soils-rice and husks-brown rice showed significantly positive correlations. By comparison, the arsenic contents of soils and husks collected around electroplating were relatively higher than most of other pollutant sources, indicating the electroplating may lead accumulation of arsenic in the paddy soil-rice system.
18763556	The present study dealt with relationships between the degradation and humification process that the organic matter underwent during bacteria-mineral technology. An inverse correlation was found between the protein, lipid, and some of the humification indices considered, suggesting that the humification theory is actually humic substances produced from simple-structured natural organic substrates. Weight-average molecular weight (Mw), number-average molecular weight (Mn), and the ratio Mw/Mn of dissolved organic matters at different stages of the process were measured by gel permeation chromatography. The results showed that Mn and Mw increased with reaction time from 352 to 17,191, and from 78,707 to 104,564, respectively. The ratio of Mn/Mw decreased from 223.3 to 6.1. This reflected the growth of the polymerization degree of dissolvable organic matters in the process; furthermore, it indicated the formation of complex molecules (humic substances) from more simple molecules. Bacteria-mineral water (BMW) (the effluent of the process) treatments can exert hormone-like activity for enhanced seed germination of wheat and rice and greatly improved chlorophyll synthesis in wheat and rice leaves. Major polyamines (plant regulators) putrescine, spermidine, and spermine, were found in BMW by a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method, which may explain the hormone-like activity of BMW.
18763564	The purpose of this study was to assess the extent of cadmium (Cd) contamination in agricultural soil and its potential risk for people. Soils, rice, and vegetables from Chenzhou City, Southern China were sampled and analyzed. In the surface soils, the 95% confidence interval for the mean concentration of Cd varied between 2.72 and 4.83 mg/kg (P < 0.05) in the survey, with a geometric mean concentration of 1.45 mg/kg. Based on the GIS map, two hot spot areas of Cd in agricultural soils with high Cd concentrations were identified to be located around the Shizhuyuan, Jinshiling, and Yaogangxian mines, and the Baoshan and Huangshaping mines, in the center of the city. About 60% of the total investigated area, where the agricultural soil Cd concentration is above 1 mg/kg, is distributed in a central belt across the region. The critical distances, at which the soil Cd concentration were increased by the mining activities, from the mines of the soils were 23 km for the Baoshan mine, 46 km for the Huangshaping mine, and 63 km for the Shizhuyuan mine, respectively. These are distances calculated from models. The Cd concentrations in rice samples ranged from 0.01 to 4.43 mg/kg and the mean dietary Cd intake from rice for an adult was 191 microg/d. Results of risk indexes showed that soil Cd concentrations possessed risks to local residents whose intake of Cd from rice and vegetables grown in soils in the vicinity of the mine was 596 microg/d.
18763705	Plant cells contain many membrane systems that are specially adapted to perform particular functions. In plant cells, the processing of signals that are involved in responses to biotic and abiotic stressors occurs in the plasma membrane. Therefore, characterization of the plasma membrane proteome can provide new insights into the functions of various plant membrane systems. Plant plasma membrane proteomics can also provide valuable information for plant-specific biological investigations. Despite recent advances in preparative and analytical techniques for plant plasma membrane proteins, the characterization of these proteins, particularly the hydrophobic ones, remains challenging. In this review, plant plasma membrane proteomics data compiled from the literature on Arabidopsis thaliana are presented. Initial attempts to determine the physiological significance of some proteins identified from plasma membrane proteomics in rice and other plants are also described from the results of our research.
1876563	Two experiments were conducted to note the response of broiler chickens to degrees of diet dilution from 4 to 11 days of age. In Experiment 1, broilers were fed conventional broiler diets from 0 to 4 and 11 to 56 days of age. From 4 to 11 days, birds were fed a conventional corn and soybean meal broiler starter, or the same diet in which major nutrients were replaced with 25, 40, or 55% ground rice hulls. Mineral and vitamin sources were not affected by dilution. Each of the three diluted diets together with an undiluted control diet was fed to three replicate floor pen groups of 30 male or 30 female broilers. In a second similar experiment, male birds were fed a regular broiler starter from 4 to 11 days or a diet diluted with 50% rice hulls. In this second experiment, rice hulls were substituted for all ingredients including those providing vitamin and mineral supplements. In Experiment 1, diet dilution resulted in a significant (P less than .05) reduction in body weight at 11 days of age, although by 42 days there was complete recovery of body weight with no change in overall efficiency of feed utilization. This same trend was seen in both sexes. Calculation of energy balance suggests these birds to have used energy very efficiently during the period of undernutrition. Diet dilution had no effect on carcass characteristics at 42 days, although for males at 56 days there was an indication of reduced abdominal fat content (P less than .05). In Experiment 2, compensatory gain was incomplete, although results were confounded due to an outbreak of infectious bronchitis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
18765808	Histone lysine methylation is an important epigenetic modification with both activating and repressive roles in gene expression. Jumonji C (jmjC) domain-containing proteins have been shown to reverse histone methylation in nonplant model systems. Here, we show that plant Jumonji C proteins have both conserved and specific features compared with mammalian homologues. In particular, the rice JMJD2 family jmjC gene JMJ706 is shown to encode a heterochromatin-enriched protein. The JMJ706 protein specifically reverses di- and trimethylations of lysine 9 of histone H3 (H3K9) in vitro. Loss-of-function mutations of the gene lead to increased di- and trimethylations of H3K9 and affect the spikelet development, including altered floral morphology and organ number. Gene expression and histone modification analysis indicates that JMJ706 regulates a subset of flower development regulatory genes. Taken together, our data suggest that rice JMJ706 encodes a heterochromatin-associated H3K9 demethylase involved in the regulation of flower development in rice.
18765925	Respiratory burst oxidase homologue (Rboh), which is found in the plasma membrane, is a generator of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plants. Many studies have indicated that the ROS produced by Rboh play critical roles in various cellular activities, including plant defence against pathogens. Crystals of the N-terminal domain of Oryza sativa RbohB (OsRbohB) have been obtained. The crystals belonged to space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 60.4, b = 72.2, c = 118.9 A. An intensity data set was collected to 2.4 A resolution.
18767682	Soybeans (Glycine max (L) Merr.) are the major summer crop grown in Japanese upland fields (characterized by aerobic soil) that have been converted from paddies. To evaluate the effect of phytoextraction by rice on the seed cadmium (Cd) content of soybeans grown subsequently, we grew Milyang 23, a high-Cd-accumulating rice cultivar, and then grew soybeans in three paddy soils contaminated with moderate Cd concentrations (2.50-4.27 mg Cd kg(-1)). The rice accumulated 7-14% of the total soil Cd in its shoots. The soybean seed Cd contents were 24-46% less than those grown on control soils. Phytoextraction by Milyang 23 rice is thus a promising remediation method for reducing seed Cd contents of soybeans grown on paddy soils under aerobic soil conditions.
18767732	Greenhouse experiments were conducted during 2004 and 2005 with male and female Oebalus pugnax (F.) (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) caged on rice plants at different stages of panicle development with the objective of determining the most attractive stage to O. pugnax. Field-collected insects were released inside cages containing potted plants and observed during morning and afternoon hours for 5 d. Results showed that attractiveness of male and female O. pugnax to plants with panicles at milk and soft dough stages was greater than plants at preheading and heading stages. Preheading plants were the least attractive to the insects, confirming field observations. Results imply that insecticide applications during the preheading stage are likely ineffective and that monitoring efforts during the milk and soft dough stages of panicle development should be intensified.
18767755	The susceptibilities of larvae of two rice stem borers, namely, Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) and Sesamia inferens (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Nocutidae) to fipronil and its metabolites were investigated, and then the activities of microsomal O-demethylase, and glutathione transferase (GST) in two species were measured. The metabolism of fipronil in both stem borers was determined in vivo and in vitro. The LD50 value of fipronil to S. inferens was 118.5-fold higher than that of C. suppressalis. The bioassay results offipronil metabolites showed that the toxicities of sulfone and sulfide were higher than fipronil for both species, and the differential toxicity between sulfone and fipronil was remarkable. Alternatively, the activities of microsomal O-demethylase and GST of C. suppressalis were 1.35- and 2.06-fold higher than S. inferens, respectively. The in vivo and in vitro studies on metabolism of fipronil showed that all of fipronil, sulfone, and sulfide were detected and the content of sulfone was higher than sulfide in both stem borers. The residue of sulfone in C. suppressalis was significantly higher than that in S. inferens. These results suggest that the higher activity of mixed function oxidases may cause the higher capacity of C. suppressalis to produce fipronil-sulfone, which is more toxic than fipronil leading to the higher susceptibility of this species.
18768622	During a study of endophytic nitrogen-fixing bacteria present in the wild rice species Oryza alta, eight novel isolates were obtained from surface-sterilized roots and classified in the genus Rhizobium on the basis of almost-complete 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. These strains can nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris and Glycine max. The highly similar protein patterns, DNA fingerprint patterns of insertion sequence-based PCR (IS-PCR) and DNA-DNA hybridizations showed that these novel isolates were members of the same species. The closest phylogenetic relatives of the representative strain Alt 505(T) of the novel group were Rhizobium etli CFN 42(T) and Rhizobium indigoferae CCBAU 71714(T), with 96.2 and 96.0% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, respectively. Low DNA-DNA relatedness with the type strains of R. etli, R. indigoferae, Rhizobium hainanense, Rhizobium mongolense and Rhizobium galegae and differences in IS-PCR fingerprinting patterns, SDS-PAGE of proteins, antibiotic resistance, phenotypic tests and comparison of cellular fatty acids with Rhizobium species indicated that the novel group of isolates were distinct from previously described species. Based on these results, we propose to place them in a novel species, as Rhizobium oryzae sp. nov. The type strain is Alt 505(T) (=LMG 24253(T) =CGMCC 1.7048(T)).
18771575	Phosphorus (P), an essential element for plants, is one of the most limiting nutrients for plant growth. A few transcription factor (TF) genes involved in P-starvation signalling have been characterized for Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. Crop production of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), the most important legume for human consumption, is often limited by low P in the soil. Despite its agronomic importance, nothing is known about transcriptional regulation in P-deficient bean plants. We functionally characterized the P-deficiency-induced MYB TF TC3604 (Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Common Bean Gene Index v.2.0), ortholog to AtPHR1 (PvPHR1). For its study, we applied RNAi technology in bean composite plants. PvPHR1 is a positive regulator of genes implicated in P transport, remobilization and homeostasis. Although there are no reports on the regulatory roles of microRNAs (miRNA) in bean, we demonstrated that PvmiR399 is an essential component of the PvPHR1 signalling pathway. The analysis of DICER-like1 (PvDCL1) silenced bean composite plants suppressed for accumulation of PvmiR399 and other miRNAs suggested that miR399 is a negative regulator of the ubiquitin E2 conjugase: PvPHO2 expression. Our results set the basis for understanding the signalling for P-starvation responses in common bean and may contribute to crop improvement.
18771779	Porous carbons have been prepared from biomass resources, such as cornstalks, rice straws, pine needles and pinecone hulls, through a simple carbonization and KOH solution activation process. The pore sizes of the obtained porous carbons are mainly distributed in the range of 1-2 nm, whereas the surface areas of the materials vary from 1000 to more than 3000 m(2) g(-1) depending on the raw materials and preparation conditions. It is found that the biomass texture and the activation manner play key roles in determination of surface areas of the porous carbons. In addition, the amount of activation agent, the activation temperature and the activation time also affect the surface area of the porous carbons but to a less extent. The obtained porous carbons with high surface areas show good performance when used as Pt-catalyst supports for cinanamaldehyde hydrogenation.
18771782	A web-based tool, the Interspecies Transcription Factor Function Finder (IT3F), has been developed to display both evolutionary gene relationships and expression data for plant transcription factors, focussing primarily on the R2R3MYB gene subfamily for proof of concept. The graphical display of information allows users to make direct comparisons between structurally related genes and to identify those genes that are potentially orthologous, thereby assisting with their understanding of gene function. A key feature of the website is the provision of an interrogative phylogenetic tree that allows submission of new sequences corresponding to a transcription factor family or subfamily and maps their relative positions to the products of other genes on an 'existing' tree containing proteins encoded by Arabidopsis and rice genes, along with key proteins encoded by genes from other species that have been characterised functionally. In addition, a feature to select clusters of related sequences has been developed so that more detailed phylogenetic analysis can be performed to highlight potential orthologous and paralogous genes within related clusters. Arabidopsis genes that reside on duplicated regions of the genome are indicated on the tree, providing further information for interpreting gene function. An additional feature of the website allows a selected number of key Arabidopsis and rice microarray experiments to be visualised alongside the tree as a tabulated heat map of expression intensity values. Through this display, it is possible to observe relative expression levels across a whole gene family and the extent to which the expression of closely related genes within subgroups has altered since their ancestral divergence. The website is available at http://jicbio.nbi.ac.uk/IT3F/.
18772846	This paper presents current knowledge of the biological functions of folic acid, the effects of its deficiency in the organism, as well as the possibilities of its therapeutic use. Folic acid (folate, B9) is a vitamin of special importance in normal cellular functions. Tetrahydrofolate (TH4-folate) is the biologically active form of folic acid. The main role of folic acid in biochemistry is the single-carbon transfer reaction (e.g. transfer of a methyl, methylene, or formyl group). Folic acid is involved in the transformation of certain amino acids as well as in the synthesis of purines and dTMP (2'-deoxythymidine-5'-phosphate) needed for the synthesis of nucleic acid (DNA), required by all rapidly growing cells. In humans, folate deficiency results in serious pathologies, the most important of which are neural tube defects, megablastic anemia, acceleration of the arteriosclerotic process, changes in the central nervous system, and the development of certain types of cancer. To increase the intake of folic acid, preventive actions include dietary education, the main objectives of which are to increase the intake of natural folate in the daily diet, add folic acid to selected dietary products (e.g. fl our, pasta, rice), and encourage supplementation with folic acid-containing pharmaceuticals.
18772945	Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV) is the causal pathogen for a severe mosaic virus disease of maize worldwide. In our previous research, the maize resistance gene analog (RGA) Pic19 and its three cognate BAC contigs were mapped to the same region as the SCMV resistance gene Scmv1. Here we report the isolation and characterization of the Pic19R gene family members from the inbred line FAP1360A, which shows complete resistance to SCMV. Two primer pairs were designed based on the conserved regions among the known Pic19 paralogs and used for rapid amplification of cDNA ends of FAP1360A. Six full-length cDNAs, corresponding to the Pic19R-1 to -6 paralogs, were obtained. Three of them (Pic19R-1 to -3) had uninterrupted coding sequences and were, therefore, regarded as candidates for the Scmv1 gene. A total of 18 positive BAC clones harboring the Pic19R-2 to -5 paralogs were obtained from the FAP1360A BAC library and assembled into two BAC contigs. Two markers, tagging Pic19R-2 and -3 and Pic19R-4, were developed and used to genotype a high-resolution mapping population segregating solely for the Scmv1 locus. Although closely linked, none of these three Pic19R paralogs co-segregated with the Scmv1 locus. Analysis of the Pic19R family indicated that the Pic19R-1 paralog is identical to the known Rxo1 gene conferring resistance to rice bacterial streak disease and none of the other Pic19R paralogs seems to be involved in resistance to SCMV.
18772947	To understand the genetic characteristics of the traits related to differentiation between cultivated rice and its wild progenitor, genetic factors controlling domestication- and yield-related traits were identified using a BC3F2 population derived from an accession of common wild rice (donor, Oryza rufipogon Griff.) collected from Yuanjiang, Yunnan province, China, and an indica cultivar, Teqing (recipient, Oryza sativa L.). A genetic linkage map consisting of 125 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers was constructed. Based on the phenotypes of the 383 BC3F2 families evaluated in two environments, two domestication-related morphological traits, panicle shape and growth habit, were found to be controlled by single Mendelian factors. This implies that the recessive mutations of single genes controlling some morphological traits could have been easily selected during early domestication. By single-point analysis and interval mapping, 59 putative quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that influence 11 quantitative traits were detected at two sites, and 37.5% of the QTL alleles originating from O. rufipogon had a beneficial effect for yield-related traits in the Teqing background. Regions with significant QTLs for domestication- and yield-related traits were detected on chromosomes 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 12. Fine mapping and cloning of these domestication-related genes and QTLs will be useful in elucidating the origin and differentiation of Asian cultivated rice in the future.
18774206	This paper provides details of a dynamic compartment model for estimating the (14)C radioactivity in an agricultural plant exposed to an amount of airborne (14)CO(2) gas. The plant, in the model, is divided into two compartments, the plant body (shoot and root) and ears, to predict the radioactivity of different parts of a plant. The carbon transports from, to and between the compartments are described by the processes of a photosynthesis, respiration, and translocation. The carbon transport fluxes of these processes are determined from the growth rates of a plant, which are usually easily attained. The model predictions showed that the present model could converge to a region where the specific activity model is applicable when the elapsed exposure time was extended up to the harvest time of a plant. The (14)C activity of a plant was greatly affected by the elapsed exposure time, the developmental stages of a plant at an exposure time, and the airborne (14)C activity during an exposure. It was expected that the peak of the ears' (14)C activity appeared when the exposure time was close to the ears-maturity date. The model predictions agreed reasonably well with the measured (14)C radioactivity of the rice plants that were artificially exposed to (14)CO(2) of a high (14)C source for a short period of time in an exposure box.
18774221	Use of low-cost hybrid precursor, prepared from rice hull has been studied as a sorbent for the removal of Pb(2+) from aqueous solutions. Effect of contact time, initial concentration, pH and temperature has been studied. The effect of temperature (30, 40, 50 and 60 degrees C) on adsorption phenomena has been studied and data have been analyzed using Langmuir isotherm. The change in enthalpy (Delta H) (-14.6179 kJ/mol), free energy (Delta G) and entropy (DeltaS) has also been evaluated. The negative values of Delta G and Delta H indicate the adsorption of lead ions on the surface of hybrid precursor to be spontaneous and exothermic under the experimental condition.
18774707	Extensive research has shown that non-wood fibers are able to be substituted for wood fibers. The major shortcoming of non-fibers is their high silica content that causes some operational problems in mills, and hence silica should be kept in pulps. By keeping silica in pulps, however, the mechanical properties of papers are reduced, and a dry strength additive may be required. In this study, cationic polyvinyl alcohols (C-PVA) with two different molecular weights were prepared, and employed as dry strength additives. The adsorption of polymers on rice straw fibers obtained via soda-air-anthraquinone (AQ) pulping under various conditions was investigated thoroughly. Convincing results demonstrated that high molecular weight polymers performed more efficiently on dry strength enhancements of papers, while they adsorbed less than lower molecular weight polymers on fibers. However, the stiffness of fibers was increased to a larger extent by applying a higher molecular weight C-PVA.
18774969	Indeterminate 1 (Id1), a classical flowering gene first reported in 1946, is one of the earliest genes whose expression in leaf tissues affects the floral transition in the shoot meristem. How Id1 is integrated into the flowering process is largely unknown. In this study, we examined the genetic action of the rice (Oryza sativa) ortholog OsId1. In rice, OsId1 is preferentially expressed in young leaves, but the overall expression pattern is broader than that in maize (Zea mays). OsId1 is able to activate transcription in yeast. RNAi mutants show a delay in flowering under both short-day (SD) and long-day (LD) conditions. OsId1 regulates the expression of Ehd1 (Early heading date 1) and its downstream genes, including Hd3a (a rice ortholog of FT) and RFT1 (Rice Flowering Locus T1), under both SD and LD conditions. In rice, the expression of Ehd1 is also controlled by the photoperiodic flowering genes OsGI (a rice ortholog of GI) and OsMADS51. However, the expression of OsId1 is independent of OsGI, OsMADS51, and OsMADS50 (a rice SOC1 ortholog). This study demonstrates that the activation of Ehd1 by OsId1 is required for the promotion of flowering.
18775065	Grasses are adapted to a wide range of climatic conditions. Species of the subfamily Pooideae, which includes wheat, barley and important forage grasses, have evolved extreme frost tolerance. A class of ice binding proteins that inhibit ice re-crystallisation, specific to the Pooideae subfamily lineage, have been identified in perennial ryegrass and wheat, and these proteins are thought to have evolved from a leucine-rich repeat phytosulfokine receptor kinase (LRR-PSR)-like ancestor gene. Even though the ice re-crystallisation inhibition function of these proteins has been studied extensively in vitro, little is known about the evolution of these genes on the molecular level. We identified 15 putative novel ice re-crystallisation inhibition (IRI)-like protein coding genes in perennial ryegrass, barley, and wheat. Using synonymous divergence estimates we reconstructed the evolution of the IRI-like gene family. We also explored the hypothesis that the IRI-domain has evolved through repeated motif expansion and investigated the evolutionary relationship between a LRR-domain containing IRI coding gene in carrot and the Pooideae IRI-like genes. Our analysis showed that the main expansion of the IRI-gene family happened ~36 million years ago (Mya). In addition to IRI-like paralogs, wheat contained several sequences that likely were products of polyploidisation events (homoeologs). Through sequence analysis we identified two short motifs in the rice LRR-PSR gene highly similar to the repeat motifs of the IRI-domain in cold tolerant grasses. Finally we show that the LRR-domain of carrot and grass IRI proteins both share homology to an Arabidopsis thaliana LRR-trans membrane protein kinase (LRR-TPK). The diverse IRI-like genes identified in this study tell a tale of a complex evolutionary history including birth of an ice binding domain, a burst of gene duplication events after cold tolerant grasses radiated from rice, protein domain structure differentiation between paralogs, and sub- and/or neofunctionalisation of IRI-like proteins. From our sequence analysis we provide evidence for IRI-domain evolution probably occurring through increased copy number of a repeated motif. Finally, we discuss the possibility of parallel evolution of LRR domain containing IRI proteins in carrot and grasses through two completely different molecular adaptations.
18775567	Rice has been demonstrated to be one of the major contributors to arsenic (As) in human diets in addition to drinking water, but little is known about rice products as an additional source of As exposure. Rice products were analyzed for total As and a subset of samples were measured for arsenic speciation using high performance liquid chromatography interfaced with inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (HPLC-ICP-MS). A wide range of rice products had total and inorganic arsenic levels that typified those found in rice grain including, crisped rice, puffed rice, rice crackers, rice noodles and a range of Japanese rice condiments as well as rice products targeted at the macrobiotic, vegan, lactose intolerant and gluten intolerance food market. Most As in rice products are inorganic As (75.2-90.1%). This study provides a wider appreciation of how inorganic arsenic derived from rice products enters the human diet.
18775973	F-box proteins are generally responsible for substrate recognition in the Skp1-Cullin-F-box complexes that are involved in protein degradation via the ubiquitin-26S proteasome pathway. In plants, F-box genes influence a variety of biological processes, such as leaf senescence, branching, self-incompatibility, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. The number of F-box genes in Populus (Populus trichocarpa; approximately 320) is less than half that found in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; approximately 660) or Oryza (Oryza sativa; approximately 680), even though the total number of genes in Populus is equivalent to that in Oryza and 1.5 times that in Arabidopsis. We performed comparative genomics analysis between the woody perennial plant Populus and the herbaceous annual plants Arabidopsis and Oryza in order to explicate the functional implications of this large gene family. Our analyses reveal interspecific differences in genomic distribution, orthologous relationship, intron evolution, protein domain structure, and gene expression. The set of F-box genes shared by these species appear to be involved in core biological processes essential for plant growth and development; lineage-specific differences primarily occurred because of an expansion of the F-box genes via tandem duplications in Arabidopsis and Oryza. The number of F-box genes in the newly sequenced woody species Vitis (Vitis vinifera; 156) and Carica (Carica papaya; 139) is similar to that in Populus, supporting the hypothesis that the F-box gene family is expanded in herbaceous annual plants relative to woody perennial plants. This study provides insights into the relationship between the structure and composition of the F-box gene family in herbaceous and woody species and their associated developmental and physiological features.
18776183	Tropospheric ozone concentrations are increasing in many Asian countries and are expected to reach levels that adversely affect crop production. Developing ozone-tolerant rice (Oryza sativa L.) varieties is therefore essential to prevent yield losses in the future. The aims of this study were to assess genotypic variation for ozone tolerance in rice, to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) conferring tolerance, and to relate QTLs to physiological tolerance mechanisms. The response of 23 varieties to elevated ozone (120 nl l(-1)) was assessed based on leaf bronzing and dry weight loss. The traditional variety 'Kasalath' was highly tolerant, whereas the modern variety 'Nipponbare' showed significant dry weight reductions. Using the Nipponbare/Kasalath/Nipponbare mapping population, six QTLs associated with tolerance to elevated ozone were identified, of which three were subsequently confirmed in Nipponbare/Kasalath substitution lines (SLs). Two QTLs associated with leaf bronzing were located on chromosomes three and nine. Kasalath alleles on chromosome three increased bronzing, while alleles on chromosome nine reduced bronzing. SLs carrying these contrasting QTLs differed significantly in leaf ascorbic acid (AsA) content when exposed to ozone, suggesting AsA as a principal antioxidant counteracting ozone-induced oxidative damage. A further confirmed QTL related to dry weight was located on chromosome eight, where the Kasalath allele increased relative dry weight. A SL carrying this QTL exhibited a less reduced net photosynthetic rate under ozone exposure compared with its recurrent parent Nipponbare. Although the effect of these QTLs on crop yield has not yet been established, their identification could be an important first step in developing ozone-tolerant rice varieties.
18776200	The soybean major storage protein glycinin is encoded by five genes, which are divided into two subfamilies. Expression of A3B4 glycinin in transgenic rice seed reached about 1.5% of total seed protein, even if expressed under the control of strong endosperm-specific promoters. In contrast, expression of A1aB1b glycinin reached about 4% of total seed protein. Co-expression of the two proteins doubled accumulation levels of both A1aB1b and A3B4 glycinins. This increase can be largely accounted for by their aggregation with rice glutelins, self-assembly and inter-glycinin interactions, resulting in the enrichment of globulin and glutelin fractions and a concomitant reduction of the prolamin fraction. Immunoelectron microscopy indicated that the synthesized A1aB1b glycinin was predominantly deposited in protein body-II (PB-II) storage vacuoles, whereas A3B4 glycinin is targeted to both PB-II and endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-derived protein body-I (PB-I) storage structures. Co-expression with A1aB1b facilitated targeting of A3B4 glycinin into PB-II by sequestration with A1aB1b, resulting in an increase in the accumulation of A3B4 glycinin.
18776202	The male gametophyte and tapetum play different roles during anther development although they are differentiated from the same cell lineage, the L2 layer. Until now, it has not been possible to delineate their transcriptomes due to technical difficulties in separating the two cell types. In the present study, we characterized the separated transcriptomes of the rice microspore/pollen and tapetum using laser microdissection (LM)-mediated microarray. Spatiotemporal expression patterns of 28,141 anther-expressed genes were classified into 20 clusters, which contained 3,468 (12.3%) anther-enriched genes. In some clusters, synchronous gene expression in the microspore and tapetum at the same developmental stage was observed as a novel characteristic of the anther transcriptome. Noteworthy expression patterns are discussed in connection with gene ontology (GO) categories and gene annotations, which are related to important biological events in anther development, such as pollen maturation, pollen germination, pollen tube elongation and pollen wall formation.
18776677	The L-tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC) gene of rice was heterologously expressed in various organisms. Transgenic rice overexpressing TDC showed accumulation of serotonin upon 5-hydroxytryptophan treatment, which was consistent with the in vitro 5-hydroxytryptophan decarboxylase enzyme activity of purified recombinant rice TDC in a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent manner. Recombinant yeast harboring TDC produced serotonin at the expense of the endogenous 5-hydroxytryptophan levels.
18777118	This research focuses on the heavy metal contamination of the paddy soils and rice from Kocani Field (eastern Macedonia) resulting from irrigation by riverine water impacted by past and present base-metal mining activities and acid mine drainage. Very high concentrations of As, Cd, Cu, Pb and Zn were found in the paddy soils (47.6, 6.4, 99, 983 and 1,245 microg g(-1)) and the rice (0.53, 0.31, 5.8, 0.5 and 67 microg g(-1)) in the western part of Kocani Field, close to the Zletovska River, which drains the mining facilities of the Pb-Zn mine in Zletovo. In terms of health risk, the observed highest concentrations of these elements in the rice could have an effect on human health and should be the subject of further investigations.
18777179	Drought and high-salinity are the important constraints that severely affect plant development and crop yield worldwide. It has been established that ethylene response factor (ERF) proteins play important regulatory roles in plant response to abiotic and biotic stresses. Our previous researches have revealed that transgenic tobacco over-expressing TERF1 (encoding a tomato ERF protein) showed enhanced tolerance to abiotic stress. Here, we further investigate the function of TERF1 in transgenic rice. Compared with the wild-type plants, overexpression of TERF1 resulted in an increased tolerance to drought and high-salt in transgenic rice. And the enhanced tolerance may be associated with the accumulation of proline and the decrease of water loss. Furthermore, TERF1 can effectively regulate the expression of stress-related functional genes Lip5, Wcor413-l, OsPrx and OsABA2, as well as regulatory genes OsCDPK7, OsCDPK13 and OsCDPK19 under normal growth conditions. Our analyses of cis-acting elements show that there exist DRE/CRT and/or GCC-box existing in TERF1 targeted gene promoters. Our results revealed that ectopic expression of TERF1 in rice caused a series of molecular and physiological alterations and resulted in the transgenic rice with enhanced tolerance to abiotic stress, indicating that TERF1 might have similar regulatory roles in response to abiotic stress in tobacco and rice.
18778094	The accumulation of significant levels of transgenic products in plant cells is required not only for crop improvement, but also for molecular pharming. However, knowledge about the fate of transgenic products and endogenous proteins in grain cells is lacking. Here, we utilized a quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach for comparative analysis of expression profiles of transgenic rice endosperm cells in response to expression of a recombinant pharmaceutical protein, human granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulation factor (hGM-CSF). This study provided the first available evidence concerning the fate of exogenous and endogenous proteins in grain cells. Among 1883 identified proteins with a false positive rate of 5%, 103 displayed significant changes (p-value < 0.05) between the transgenic and the wild-type endosperm cells. Notably, endogenous storage proteins and most carbohydrate metabolism-related proteins were down-regulated, while 26S proteasome-related proteins and chaperones were up-regulated in the transgenic rice endosperm. Furthermore, it was observed that expression of hGM-CSF induced endoplasmic reticulum stress and activated the ubiquitin/26S-proteasome pathway, which led to ubiquitination of this foreign gene product in the transgenic rice endosperm.
18778405	Yellowing, which is related to the degradation of chlorophyll and chlorophyll-protein complexes, is a notable phenomenon during leaf senescence. NON-YELLOW COLORING 1 (NYC1) in rice encodes a membrane-localized short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) that is thought to represent a chlorophyll b reductase necessary for catalyzing the first step of chlorophyll b degradation. Analysis of the nyc1 mutant, which shows the stay-green phenotype, revealed that chlorophyll b degradation is required for the degradation of light-harvesting complex II and thylakoid grana in leaf senescence. Phylogenetic analysis further revealed the existence of NYC1-LIKE (NOL) as the most closely related protein to NYC1. In the present paper, the nol mutant in rice was also found to show a stay-green phenotype very similar to that of the nyc1 mutant, i.e. the degradation of chlorophyll b was severely inhibited and light-harvesting complex II was selectively retained during senescence, resulting in the retention of thylakoid grana even at a late stage of senescence. The nyc1 nol double mutant did not show prominent enhancement of inhibition of chlorophyll degradation. NOL was localized on the stromal side of the thylakoid membrane despite the lack of a transmembrane domain. Immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that NOL and NYC1 interact physically in vitro. These observations suggest that NOL and NYC1 are co-localized in the thylakoid membrane and act in the form of a complex as a chlorophyll b reductase in rice.
18779168	As the most efficient strategy in gene clone, positional cloning has been used widely in QTL cloning in rice. The objective of this paper is to make summary features of QTL positional cloning based on 15 successful positional cloning attempts. (1) most of the populations used in the analysis were derived from interspecific or intersubspecies; (2) the target QTL had been identified with very large phenotypic effects; (3) the candidate genomic region was usually narrowed down to 40 kb; (4) the primary mapping result was exact; and the fine mapping population was more than 6,000, while the number of recessive population was more than 1,500. Otherwise, the nodus of QTL positional cloning and the corresponding solving methods were discussed.
18779179	The segregation of exogenous genes was studied by hygromycin-resistant and PCR experiments in the transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica and indica) with anti-sense waxy gene, meanwhile the change of amylose and waxy protein contents in progenies of transgenic rice was analyzed. The results showed no matter the rice Guangjing No.1 (O. Sativa L. subsp. japonica) were transformed by p13w4 plasmid carrying anti-sense waxy gene and hygromycin-resistant gene, or in the rice 01Z5202 (O. sativa L. subsp. indica) were co-transformed by p13w8 plasmid carrying anti-sense waxy gene and p1300 plasmid carrying hygromycin-resistant gene, the target gene(s) had been segregated in the progenies; the content of amylose of the transgenic plants was lower than those in non-transgenic ones, and the content of amylose in some of transgenic plants was less than 10.0% (of the weight of grain), which was much lower than those in the control (about 22.04%); and the analysis with SDS-PAGE showed the content of the waxy protein are positively correlated with the con-tent of amylose in the tested transgenic rice materials.
18779180	A rice (Oryza sativa L.) plant with white midrib (Oswm2) was selected from the T-DNA inserted mutant pool of rice. The basal midrib of the leaves in the mutant, except for the flag leaves, is white. The blade close to the white midrib is etiolated, and alterations of the agronomic traits, such as plant height, panicle length occur in the mutant. Genetic analysis indicated that this mutant trait was controlled by a recessive nuclear gene. To map the OsWM2 gene, an F2 population was constructed by crossing mutant Oswm2 with 02428. The OsWM2 locus was preliminarily located between the SSR molecular markers RM21478 and RM418 on chromosome 7 with the distances of 8.7 and 15.9 cM, respectively.
18779926	The DREB transcription factors, which specifically interact with C-repeat/DRE (A/GCCGAC), play an important role in plant abiotic stress tolerance by controlling the expression of many cold or/and drought-inducible genes in an ABA-independent pathway. We have isolated three novel rice DREB genes, OsDREB1E, OsDREB1G, and OsDREB2B, which are homologous to Arabidopsis DREB genes. The yeast one-hybrid assay indicated that OsDREB1E, OsDREB1G, and OsDREB2B can specifically bind to the C-repeat/DRE element. To elucidate the function of respective OsDREB genes, we have stably introduced these to rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic rice plants analysis revealed that over-expression of OsDREB1G and OsDREB2B in rice significantly improved their tolerance to water deficit stress, while over-expression of OsDREB1E could only slightly improved the tolerance to water deficit stress, suggesting that the OsDREBs might participate in the stress response pathway in different manners.
18780741	F(2) populations are commonly used in genetic studies of animals and plants. For simplicity, most quantitative trait locus or loci (QTL) mapping methods have been developed on the basis of populations having two distinct genotypes at each polymorphic marker or gene locus. In this study, we demonstrate that dominance can cause the interactions between markers and propose an inclusive linear model that includes marker variables and marker interactions so as to completely control both additive and dominance effects of QTL. The proposed linear model is the theoretical basis for inclusive composite-interval QTL mapping (ICIM) for F(2) populations, which consists of two steps: first, the best regression model is selected by stepwise regression, which approximately identifies markers and marker interactions explaining both additive and dominance variations; second, the interval mapping approach is applied to the phenotypic values adjusted by the regression model selected in the first step. Due to the limited mapping population size, the large number of variables, and multicollinearity between variables, coefficients in the inclusive linear model cannot be accurately determined in the first step. Interval mapping is necessary in the second step to fine tune the QTL to their true positions. The efficiency of including marker interactions in mapping additive and dominance QTL was demonstrated by extensive simulations using three QTL distribution models with two population sizes and an actual rice F(2) population.
18781359	Pantoea (formerly Enterobacter) agglomerans YS19 is a dominant diazotrophic endophyte isolated from rice (Oryza sativa cv. Yuefu) grown in a temperate-climate region in west Beijing, China. In vitro adsorption and invasion of YS19 on host plant root were studied in this research. Adsorption of YS19 on rice seedling roots closely resembled the Langmuir adsorption and showed a higher adsorption quantity than the control strains Paenibacillus polymyxa WY110 (a rhizospheric bacterium from the same rice cultivar) and Escherichia coli HB101 (a general model bacterium). Adsorption dynamics study revealed high rates and a long duration of the YS19-rice root adsorption process. Adsorption of YS19 was mainly observed on the root hair, though which it enters the plant. This in vitro adsorption study revealed an apparent strong interaction between YS19 and rice at the early endophyte-host recognition stage.
18781759	A capillary electrophoresis-based competitive immunoassay (CEIA) with a laser-induced fluorescence (LIF) detector for the determination of carbaryl was developed. The method was based on the competitive reactions between fluorescently labeled carbaryl tracer (Ag*) and free carbaryl (Ag) with a limited amount of anticarbaryl antibody (Ab), and the relative amounts of each were separated and determined by capillary electrophoresis (CE) with an LIF detector. Using CEIA, equilibrium was reached in 30 min, and the analytical results were obtained within a further 8 min. The linear range and the detection limit for carbaryl were 0.16-50 ng/mL and 0.05 ng/mL, respectively. The sensitivity of this CEIA with an LIF detector was almost 14 times greater than that of ELISA, which used the same immuno-reagents. The method was also applied to the analysis of carbaryl in rice with rapid and simple sample pretreatment. The method is thus proposed as a fast and sensitive assay for the detection of carbaryl.
18781762	Response surface methodology (RSM) was employed to optimize the hydrolysis conditions with trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) to obtain the maximum amount of feruloylated oligosaccharides from rice bran. The TFA concentration and hydrolysis time effects on feruloylated oligosaccharides recovery are studied. The optimum hydrolysis conditions for maximizing feruloylated oligosaccharides recovery were 193 mM TFA concentration and 1.36 h of hydrolysis time. Under these conditions the corresponding acyl ferulic group quantity was 78.63 microg in 1 mL of hydrolysate. The model was experimentally verified with a satisfactory coefficient of R (2) (= 0.96). The quantity of acyl ferulic group in the feruloylated oligosaccharides, purified using Amberlite XAD-4, was 916.12 microg/g of rice bran under the optimum hydrolysis conditions. The proposed method accounted for 54.08% of the total acyl ferulic group in rice bran. The results suggest that the proposed conditions were useful in maximizing recovery of feruloylated oligosaccharides from rice bran.
18783435	In Gram-negative bacteria, a typical quorum-sensing (QS) system involves the production and response to N-acyl homoserine lactones (AHLs). It still remains unclear as to how pivotal and conserved AHL QS is in root-colonizing rhizosphere Pseudomonas. We, therefore, performed a systematic study of AHL QS on a set of 50 rice rhizosphere Pseudomonas isolates. We also isolated the AHL QS genes in two representative strains and analyzed the role of AHL QS regulation of various phenotypes. Our results are discussed with the current knowledge of AHL QS of rhizosphere Pseudomonas, implicating a lack of conservation and an unpredictable role played by AHL QS in this group of bacteria.
1878356	Growing dogs were divided into three groups and were fed on a control (rice) diet, a diet in which cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz; gari) was used as the carbohydrate source, and the rice diet to which cyanide (equivalent to that present in gari) was added. Each group consumed its diet for 14 weeks, during which plasma thiocyanate concentration and plasma lipase (EC 3.1.1.3) activity were monitored. Plasma free amino acids were determined from pooled samples taken at the end of the experimental period, and the insulin status of the dogs was evaluated using the gluconeogenic index. The dogs were killed and the pancreas examined for histopathology. Dogs fed on both gari diet and the rice + cyanide diet generated significant amounts of thiocyanate when compared with the controls, with the rice + cyanide group having higher plasma thiocyanate than the gari group (P less than 0.01). Plasma lipase activity rose significantly at the end of the experimental period in the dogs fed on gari (P less than 0.05). Gluconeogenesis from protein was greatest in the dogs fed on gari, five times greater than that in the control dogs, while gluconeogenesis from protein in the dogs fed on rice + cyanide was approximately twice as high as that of the control dogs. Histopathological examination of the pancreas showed haemorrhage, necrosis, fibrosis and atrophy of the acinar tissue and fibrosis of the islets of Langerhans in the dogs fed on gari. The pancreas of the dogs fed on rice + cyanide showed similar lesions but haemorrhage was not prominent and fibrosis was more marked.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1878357	Growing dogs were divided into three groups and were fed on nutritionally-balanced diets. Control dogs were fed on a rice diet, the cassava (gari) group ate a diet in which gari provided the carbohydrate source, while the rice + cyanide group consumed the rice diet to which hydrocyanic acid (equivalent to that present in gari) was added. Each group consumed its diet for 14 weeks, during which plasma thiocyanate concentration and total serum triiodothyronine (T3) were monitored. At the end of the experiment the concentrations of the plasma free amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine, the thyroid weights and histology were determined. While plasma thiocyanate remained undetectable in control dogs, animals consuming both gari and rice + cyanide generated significant amounts. In the control dogs and the gari group, total serum T3 increased 40 and 38.8% respectively from the basal level by the end of the period (P less than 0.02). In contrast there was a decrease in T3 by 36% in the dogs fed on rice + cyanide (P less than 0.05). This group also showed significant thyroid enlargement and a histological picture consistent with parenchymatous goitre, whereas the gari group was essentially normal. The relatively low mean thyroid weight, the rise in total serum T3 level and the normal histological appearance of the gland indicate that dogs that consumed the gari diet were essentially normal with respect to their thyroid function, in spite of their high blood thiocyanate content. In contrast, dogs that consumed rice with cyanide suffered from hypothyroidism and goitre.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
18783880	Present study deals with the adsorption of Pb(II) from aqueous solution on rice husk ash. Rice husk is a by-product generally obtained from rice mill. Rice husk ash is a solid obtained after burning of rice husk. Batch studies were performed to evaluate the influences of various experimental parameters like pH, initial concentration, adsorbent dosage, contact time and the effect of temperature. Optimum conditions for Pb(II) removal were found to be pH 5, adsorbent dosage 5 g/L of solution and equilibrium time 1h. Adsorption of Pb(II) followed pseudo-second-order kinetics. The effective diffusion coefficient is of the order of 10(-10)m(2)/s. The equilibrium adsorption isotherm was better described by Freuindlich adsorption isotherm model. The adsorption capacity (q(max)) of rice husk ash for Pb(II) ions in terms of monolayer adsorption was 91.74 mg/g. The change of entropy (DeltaS(0)) and enthalpy (Delta H(0)) were estimated at 0.132 kJ/(mol K) and 28.923 kJ/mol respectively. The negative value of Gibbs free energy (Delta G(0)) indicates feasible and spontaneous adsorption of Pb(II) on rice husk ash. The value of the adsorption energy (E), calculated using Dubinin-Radushkevich isotherm, was 9.901 kJ/mol and it indicated that the adsorption process was chemical in nature. Application study was also carried out to find the suitability of the process in waste water treatment operation.
18783881	The increase in the use of heavy metals has resulted in an increased flux of metallic substances into the aquatic environment which poses a danger to human health. The present work relates to the removal of cadmium ions by treatment with polyacrylamide grafted rice (Oryza sativa) husk/saguan (Tectona grandis) saw dust. The drinking water guideline value recommended by WHO for cadmium is 0.005 ppm.The adsorbent has been prepared by treatment of rice husk/saw dust with acrylamide. Removal has been studied at various pH values for different times of contact and adsorbate concentrations and is found to be pH-dependent, maximum removal occurs at pH 9 and at a contact time of 180 min for both the adsorbents. The results were found to be consistent with both the Langmuir and Freundlich isotherm models. The value of n (rate constant) determined at pH 9 has been found to be 1 (within experimental limits). This is further substantiated by applying the Lagergren model. The intra-particle diffusion constants were determined by the Morris-Weber model. Continuous flow column studies have also been undertaken and the breakthrough characteristics were determined. Desorption has been affected with 0.5M HCl. The results suggest that both polyacrylamide grafted rice husk/saw dust can be used as efficient and cost effective adsorbents for cadmium ion removal.
18784285	The rice (Oryza sativa) gene Xa27 confers resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial blight disease in rice. Sequence analysis of the deduced XA27 protein provides little or no clue to its mode of action, except that a signal-anchor-like sequence is predicted at the amino (N)-terminal region of XA27. As part of an effort to characterize the biochemical function of XA27, we decided to determine its subcellular localization. Initial studies showed that a functional XA27-green fluorescent protein fusion protein accumulated in vascular elements, the host sites where the bacterial blight pathogens multiply. The localization of XA27-green fluorescent protein to the apoplast was verified by detection of the protein on cell walls of leaf sheath and root cells after plasmolysis. Similarly, XA27-FLAG localizes to xylem vessels and cell walls of xylem parenchyma cells, revealed by immunogold electron microscopy. XA27-FLAG could be secreted from electron-dense vesicles in cytoplasm to the apoplast via exocytosis. The signal-anchor-like sequence has an N-terminal positively charged region including a triple arginine motif followed by a hydrophobic region. Deletion of the hydrophobic region or substitution of the triple arginine motif with glycine or lysine residues abolished the localization of the mutated proteins to the cell wall and impaired the plant's resistance to X. oryzae pv oryzae. These results indicate that XA27 depends on the N-terminal signal-anchor-like sequence to localize to the apoplast and that this localization is important for resistance to X. oryzae pv oryzae.
18785474	To study the relationship between esophageal cancer (EC) and the ingestion of folate, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T gene polymorphisms in Kazakh area, Xinjiang. A 1:2 matched case-control study was adopted. 120 cases diagnosed as esophageal cancer were collected with 240 population-based and hospital-based controls were selected by the same sex, same nationality and each pair's ages were permitted to differ within 5 years. MTHFR genotypes were detected by polymeerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and the conditional logistic regression model was performed in this study. Data showed that the ingestion of folate was related to EC in Kazakh (chi2 = 7.868, nu = 1, P < 0.01) with OR: 0.519 (95% CI:0.329-0.821) while more folate intake appeared to be the protective factor of EC in Kazakh. The MTHFR C677T genotype frequencies of EC group was different from the control group (chi2 = 15.823, nu = 1, P < 0.01). The individuals with 677CT, TT genotype had a 2.613-fold (95% CI: 1.628-4.194) increased risk of developing EC, compared to those who had 677CC genotype. Data from Interaction Analysis showed that more folate intake could reduce the incidence of esophageal cancer to the individuals who carried the MTHFR 677CT or TT genotypes. from multivariate conditional logistic regression analysis showed that: unsanitary drinking water, irregular eating, prefer eating peppery food, engorgement, crusted rice or wheat, having history of stomach or esophagus illness, carrying MTHFR 677CT or TT genotypes were risk factors of esophageal cancer while taking in more folate was the protective factor of EC. Lacking of folate intake were mainly risk factor and the polymorphisms of MTHFRC677T gene were susceptibility factor of esophageal cancer in Kazakh in Xinjiang.
18785901	Sulfur-deficient plants generate a lower yield and have a reduced nutritional value. The process of sulfur acquisition and assimilation play an integral role in plant metabolism, and response to sulfur deficiency involves a large number of plant constituents. Rice (Oryza sativa) is the second most consumed cereal grain, and the effects of sulfur deprivation in rice were analyzed by measuring changes in photosynthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, and antioxidants. The photosynthetic apparatus was severely affected under sulfur deficiency. The Chl content was reduced by 49% because of a general reduction of PSII and PSI and the associated light-harvesting antenna. The PSII efficiency was 31% lower at growth light, and the ability of PSI to photoreduce NADP+ was decreased by 61%. The Rubisco content was also significantly reduced in the sulfur-deprived plants. The imbalances between PSII and PSI, and between photosynthesis and carbon fixation led to a general over-reduction of the photosynthetic electron carriers (higher 1-q(P)). Chromatographic analysis showed that the level of monosaccharides was lower and starch content higher in the sulfur-deprived plants. In contrast, no changes in metabolite levels were found in the tricarboxylic acid or Calvin cycle. The level of the thiol-containing antioxidant, GSH, was 70% lower and the redox state was significantly more oxidized. These changes in GSH status led to an upregulation of the cytosolic isoforms of GSH reductase and monodehydroascorbate reductase. In addition, alternative antioxidants like flavonoids and anthocyanins were increased in the sulfur-deprived plants.
18786507	Linolenic acid (18:3) and its derivative jasmonic acid (JA) are important molecules in disease resistance in many dicotyledonous plants. We have previously used 18:3- and JA-deficient rice (F78Ri) to investigate the roles of fatty acids and their derivatives in resistance to the blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea [A. Yara, T. Yaeno, J.-L. Montillet, M. Hasegawa, S. Seo, K. Kusumi, K. Iba, Enhancement of disease resistance to Magnaporthe grisea in rice by accumulation of hydroxy linoleic acid, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 370 (2008) 344-347; A. Yara, T. Yaeno, M. Hasegawa, H. Seto, J.-L. Montillet, K. Kusumi, S. Seo, K. Iba, Disease resistance against Magnaporthe grisea is enhanced in transgenic rice with suppression of omega-3 fatty acid desaturases, Plant Cell Physiol. 48 (2007) 1263-1274]. However, because F78Ri plants are suppressed in the first step of the JA biosynthetic pathway, we could not confirm the specific contribution of JA to disease resistance. In this paper, we generated two JA-deficient rice lines (AOCRi and OPRRi) with suppressed expression of the genes encoding allene oxide cyclase (AOC) and 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid reductase (OPR), which catalyze late steps in the JA biosynthetic pathway. The levels of disease resistance in the AOCRi and OPRRi lines were equal to that in wild-type plants. Our data suggest that resistance to M. grisea is not dependent on JA synthesis.
18787712	Starch is the most abundant storage carbohydrate produced in plants. The initiation of transitory starch synthesis and degradation in plastids depends mainly on diurnal cycle, post-translational regulation of enzyme activity and starch phosphorylation. For the proper structure of starch granule the activities of all starch synthase isoenzymes, branching enzymes and debranching enzymes are needed. The intensity of starch biosynthesis depends mainly on the activity of AGPase (adenosine 5'-diphosphate glucose pyrophosphorylase). The key enzymes in starch degradation are beta-amylase, isoamylase 3 and disproportionating enzyme. However, it should be underlined that there are some crucial differences in starch metabolism between heterotrophic and autotrophic tissues, e.g. is the ability to build multiprotein complexes responsible for biosynthesis and degradation of starch granules in chloroplasts. The observed huge progress in understanding of starch metabolism was possible mainly due to analyses of the complete Arabidopsis and rice genomes and of numerous mutants with altered starch metabolism in leaves. The aim of this paper is to review current knowledge on transient starch metabolism in higher plants.
18787715	Pullulanase (EC 3.2.1.41) in non-germinating seeds was compared with that in germinating seeds. Moreover, pullulanase from the endosperm of rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. Hinohikari) seeds was isolated and its properties investigated. The pI value of pullulanase from seeds after 8 days of germination was almost equal to that from non-germinating seeds, which shows that these two enzymes are the same protein. Therefore, the same pullulanase may play roles in both starch synthesis during ripening and starch degradation during germination in rice seeds. The enzyme was isolated by a procedure that included ammonium sulfate fractionation, DEAE-cellulofine column chromatography, preparative isoelectric focusing, and preparative disc gel electrophoresis. The enzyme was homogeneous by SDS/PAGE. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 100 000 based on its mobility on SDS/PAGE and 105 000 based on gel filtration with TSKgel super SW 3000, which showed that it was composed of a single unit. The isoelectric point of the enzyme was 4.7. The enzyme was strongly inhibited by beta-cyclodextrin. The enzyme was not activated by thiol reagents such as dithiothreitol, 2-mercaptoethanol or glutathione. The enzyme most preferably hydrolyzed pullulan and liberated only maltotriose. The pullulan hydrolysis was strongly inhibited by the substrate at a concentration higher than 0.1%. The degree of inhibition increased with an increase in the concentration of pullulan. However, the enzyme hydrolyzed amylopectin, soluble starch and beta-limit dextrin more rapidly as their concentrations increased. The enzyme exhibited alpha-glucosyltransfer activity and produced an alpha-1,6-linked compound of two maltotriose molecules from pullulan.
18787889	There has been little agreement regarding the mechanism by which proline reduces heavy metal stress. The present work examines the relationship between Hg(2+)-induced oxidative stress and proline accumulation in rice and explores the possible mechanisms through which proline protects against Hg(2+) stress. The effect of proline on alleviation of Hg(2+) toxicity was studied by spectrophotography and enzymatic methods. Hg(2+) induced oxidative stress in rice by increasing lipid peroxidation. Pretreatment of the rice with 2 mM proline for 12 h profoundly alleviated Hg(2+)-induced lipid peroxidation and minimized H(2)O(2) accumulation. Proline pretreatment significantly reduced (p < 0.01) the Hg(2+) content in rice leaves. A comparison of the effects of proline pretreatment on H(2)O(2) accumulation by Hg(2+) and aminotrazole suggested that proline protected cells from Hg(2+)-induced oxidative stress by scavenging reactive oxygen species. The present work demonstrates a protective effect of proline on Hg(2+) toxicity through detoxifying reactive oxygen species, rather than chelating metal ions or maintaining the water balance under Hg(2+) stress.
18788512	Three case histories of nursing infants suffering from different forms of intestinal problems, who underwent special dietary therapy in order to solve situations that would be difficult to deal with using the special artificial milk varieties on the market, are presented. These children were administered a homemade food consisting ofParmigiano Reggiano cheese seasoned for at least 36 months, rice or maize custard and tapioca, sugar, maize oil. In the first case the diagnosis of "widespread nonspecific acute colitis" was made compatible with "antibiotic-associated colitis" and Clostridium difficile was isolated from the feces. The second case, under the suspicion of cow's milk allergy, was fed by soya and hydrolyzed milk with persitent disturbed alvus with greenish feces and mucus. The third case was represented by a nursing child with persistent diarrhoic alvus after an acute episode with subsequent intolerance to rice milk. After the introduction of the food based on Parmigiano Reggiano cheese, all cases showed a rapid and progressive improvement of symptoms and alvus characteristics and were discharged with increased weight. The Parmigiano Reggiano cheese shows a high concentration of easily absorbed amino acids and oligopeptides like a hydrolyzed proteic preparation. As regards the lipoid component the medium and short chain fatty acids are directly absorbed in the bowel and immediately usable as a significant source of energy. Finally, another relevant characteristic of Parmigiano Reggiano cheese is the complete absence of lactose. The use of Parmigiano Reggiano cheese as a dietary therapy is appropriate not only for its high nutritional value, but also for its characteristics as a functional food that produces beneficial effects on health with regards to the gastrointestinal tract and the inflammatory problems resulting from alimentary intolerance, post-therapeutic antibiotic dismicrobism, or post-infective conditions. Moreover, its efficay on these pathologic conditions is further improved by the prebiotic and probiotic effects resulting from the oligosaccharides and the bacterial flora of this natural food product, only derived from the nature and the work of skilled artisans closely tied to tradition.
18788708	The objective of this study was to evaluate the chemical, physicochemical, and functional properties of agrowastes derived from okara (Glycine max), corn cob (Zea mays sp.), wheat straw (Triticum sp.), and rice husk (Oryza sativa) for potential applications in foods. The fibrous materials (FM) were treated with alkali to yield fibrous residues (FR). Rice husk contained the highest ash content (FM, 8.56%; FR, 9.04%) and lowest lightness in color (FM, 67.63; FR, 63.46), possibly due to the abundance of mineral constituents. Corn cob contained the highest amount of soluble dietary fiber (SDF), whereas okara had the highest total dietary fiber (TDF). The high dietary fiber fractions of corn cob and okara also contributed to the highest water- and oil-holding capacities, emulsifying activities, and emulsion stabilities for both FM and FR samples. These results indicate that these agrowastes could be utilized as functional ingredients in foods.
18789490	An approach to incorporate the paddy field compartment into the newly developing multimedia fate model "the National Institute for Agro-Environmental Sciences' multimedia environmental fate model (NIAES-MMM-Global)" used to estimate the long-term fate in global environment of current-use pesticides (CUPs) and persistent organic pollutants (POPs) emitted from Japan and all of Asia is presented here. Effects of the rice plant upon the overall environmental fate of targeted chemicals such as CUPs and POPs are assessed by comparing the maximum reservoir capacity (MRC) values calculated with and without the inclusion of rice plants. Rice plants exert a marked effect on the environmental fate of these chemicals and should be considered when paddy field is incorporated into multimedia models to execute predictions that are more reliable. Moreover, the results suggest that the seasonal changes of the rice plant should also be reflected in the models. Accordingly, the scenario description for inclusion of the paddy field compartment in the multimedia models is discussed.
18790051	A quorum-quenching approach was exploited in order to identify functions regulated by quorum-sensing (QS) in the plant growth-promoting bacterium Azospirillum lipoferum. The AttM lactonase from Agrobacterium tumefaciens was shown to enzymatically inactivate N-acyl homoserine lactones (AHLs) produced by two A. lipoferum strains. The targeted analysis of several phenotypes revealed that in strain B518, a rice endophyte, AHL inactivation abolished pectinase activity, increased siderophore synthesis and reduced indoleacetic acid production (in stationary phase) but no effect was observed on cellulase activity or on swimming and swarming motilities. None of the tested phenotypes appeared to be under QS regulation in strain TVV3 isolated from the rice rhizosphere. Moreover, AHL inactivation had no deleterious effect on the phytostimulatory effect of the two strains in vitro. A global proteomic approach revealed little modification of protein patterns when comparing attM-expressing TVV3 and the wild-type strain, but numerous proteins appeared to be regulated by the AHL-mediated QS system in strain B518. Several proteins identified by MS-MS analysis were revealed to be implicated in transport (such as OmaA) and chemotaxis (ChvE). Altogether, the results indicate that in A. lipoferum, QS regulation is strain-specific and is dedicated to regulating functions linked to rhizosphere competence and adaptation to plant roots.
18790996	Plants employ sophisticated mechanisms to recycle intracellular constituents needed for growth, development, and survival under nutrient-limiting conditions. Autophagy is one important route in which cytoplasm and organelles are sequestered in bulk into vesicles and subsequently delivered to the vacuole for breakdown by resident hydrolases. The formation and trafficking of autophagic vesicles are directed in part by associated conjugation cascades that couple the AUTOPHAGY-RELATED8 (ATG8) and ATG12 proteins to their respective targets, phosphatidylethanolamine and the ATG5 protein. To help understand the importance of autophagy to nutrient remobilization in cereals, we describe here the ATG8/12 conjugation cascades in maize (Zea mays) and examine their dynamics during development, leaf senescence, and nitrogen and fixed-carbon starvation. From searches of the maize genomic sequence using Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) counterparts as queries, we identified orthologous loci encoding all components necessary for ATG8/12 conjugation, including a five-member gene family expressing ATG8. Alternative splicing was evident for almost all Atg transcripts, which could have important regulatory consequences. In addition to free ATG8, its membrane-associated, lipidated form was detected in many maize tissues, suggesting that its conjugation cascade is active throughout the plant at most, if not all, developmental stages. Levels of Atg transcripts and/or the ATG8-phosphatidylethanolamine adduct increase during leaf senescence and nitrogen and fixed-carbon limitations, indicating that autophagy plays a key role in nutrient remobilization. The description of the maize ATG system now provides a battery of molecular and biochemical tools to study autophagy in this crop under field conditions.
18790997	Recent research into the flowering of rice (Oryza sativa) has revealed both unique and conserved genetic pathways in the photoperiodic control of flowering compared with those in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). We discovered an early heading date2 (ehd2) mutant that shows extremely late flowering under both short- and long-day conditions in line with a background deficient in Heading date1 (Hd1), a rice CONSTANS ortholog that belongs to the conserved pathway. This phenotype in the ehd2 mutants suggests that Ehd2 is pivotal for the floral transition in rice. Map-based cloning revealed that Ehd2 encodes a putative transcription factor with zinc finger motifs orthologous to the INDETERMINATE1 (ID1) gene, which promotes flowering in maize (Zea mays). Ehd2 mRNA in rice tissues accumulated most abundantly in developing leaves, but was present at very low levels around the shoot apex and in roots, patterns that are similar to those of ID1. To assign the position of Ehd2 within the flowering pathway of rice, we compared transcript levels of previously isolated flowering-time genes, such as Ehd1, a member of the unique pathway, Hd3a, and Rice FT-like1 (RFT1; rice florigens), between the wild-type plants and the ehd2 mutants. Severely reduced expression of these genes in ehd2 under both short- and long-day conditions suggests that Ehd2 acts as a flowering promoter mainly by up-regulating Ehd1 and by up-regulating the downstream Hd3a and RFT1 genes in the unique genetic network of photoperiodic flowering in rice.
18791024	Gibberella zeae is one of the most devastating pathogens of barley and wheat in the United States. The fungus also infects noncereal crops, such as potatoes and sugar beets, and the genetic relationships among barley, wheat, potato, and sugar beet isolates indicate high levels of similarity. However, little is known about the toxigenic potential of G. zeae isolates from potatoes and sugar beets. A total of 336 isolates of G. zeae from barley, wheat, potatoes, and sugar beets were collected and analyzed by TRI (trichothecene biosynthesis gene)-based PCR assays. To verify the TRI-based PCR detection of genetic markers by chemical analysis, 45 representative isolates were grown in rice cultures for 28 days and 15 trichothecenes and 2 zearalenone (ZEA) analogs were quantified using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. TRI-based PCR assays revealed that all isolates had the deoxynivalenol (DON) marker. The frequencies of isolates with the 15-acetyl-deoxynivalenol (15-ADON) marker were higher than those of isolates with the 3-acetyl-deoxynivalenol (3-ADON) marker among isolates from all four crops. Fusarium head blight (FHB)-resistant wheat cultivars had little or no influence on the diversity of isolates associated with the 3-ADON and 15-ADON markers. However, the frequency of isolates with the 3-ADON marker among isolates from the Langdon, ND, sampling site was higher than those among isolates from the Carrington and Minot, ND, sites. In chemical analyses, DON, 3-ADON, 15-ADON, b-ZEA, and ZEA were detected. All isolates produced DON (1 to 782 microg/g) and ZEA (1 to 623 microg/g). These findings may be useful for monitoring mycotoxin contamination and for formulating FHB management strategies for these crops.
18791236	Two recombinant inbred (RI) populations having 194 and 222 lines each, derived, respectively, from a highly heterotic inter- (IJ) and intrasubspecific (II) hybrid, were backcrossed to their respective parents. The RI and two backcross populations along with F1 and its two parents of each hybrid were evaluated for nine important traits, including grain yield and eight other yield-related traits. A total of 76 quantitative trait loci (QTL) for the IJ hybrid and 41 QTL for the II hybrid were detected in the RI population, midparent heterosis of two backcross populations, and two independent sets of data by summation (L1 + L2) and by subtraction (L1 - L2) of two backcross populations (L1 and L2). The variance explained by each QTL ranged from 2.6 to 58.3%. In the IJ hybrid, 42% (32) of the QTL showed an additive effect, 32% (24) a partial-to-complete dominant effect, and 26% (20) an overdominant effect. In the II hybrid, 32% (13) of the QTL demonstrated an additive effect, 29% (12) a partial-to-complete dominant effect, and 39% (16) an overdominant effect. There were 195 digenic interactions detected in the IJ hybrid and 328 in the II hybrid. The variance explained by each digenic interaction ranged from 2.0 to 14.9%. These results suggest that the heterosis in these two hybrids is attributable to the orchestrated outcome of partial-to-complete dominance, overdominance, and epistasis.
18791260	Despite its importance to agriculture, the genetic basis of heterosis is still not well understood. The main competing hypotheses include dominance, overdominance, and epistasis. NC design III is an experimental design that has been used for estimating the average degree of dominance of quantitative trait loci (QTL) and also for studying heterosis. In this study, we first develop a multiple-interval mapping (MIM) model for design III that provides a platform to estimate the number, genomic positions, augmented additive and dominance effects, and epistatic interactions of QTL. The model can be used for parents with any generation of selfing. We apply the method to two data sets, one for maize and one for rice. Our results show that heterosis in maize is mainly due to dominant gene action, although overdominance of individual QTL could not completely be ruled out due to the mapping resolution and limitations of NC design III. For rice, the estimated QTL dominant effects could not explain the observed heterosis. There is evidence that additive x additive epistatic effects of QTL could be the main cause for the heterosis in rice. The difference in the genetic basis of heterosis seems to be related to open or self pollination of the two species. The MIM model for NC design III is implemented in Windows QTL Cartographer, a freely distributed software.
18791807	The PsbP is a thylakoid lumenal subunit of photosystem II (PSII), which has developed specifically in higher plants and green algae. In higher plants, the molecular function of PsbP has been intensively investigated by release-reconstitution experiments in vitro. Recently, solution of a high-resolution structure of PsbP has enabled investigation of structure-function relationships, and efficient gene-silencing techniques have demonstrated the crucial role of PsbP in PSII activity in vivo. Furthermore, genomic and proteomic studies have shown that PsbP belongs to the divergent PsbP protein family, which consists of about 10 members in model plants such as Arabidopsis and rice. Characterization of the molecular function of PsbP homologs using Arabidopsis mutants suggests that each plays a distinct and important function in maintaining photosynthetic electron transfer. In this review, recent findings regarding the molecular functions of PsbP and other PsbP homologs in higher plants are summarized, and the molecular evolution of these proteins is discussed.
18791976	Iron deficiency anemia (IDA) in the Philippines is a serious public health problem. Fortifying rice offers a great opportunity to control IDA. However, information on other types of fortificants that can be used is scarce. To compare the effects of two types of iron fortificants in rice in improving the hematological status of schoolchildren. 180 randomly selected 6-to 9-year-old anemic children were randomly allocated to three groups in a double-blinded manner: One group received iron-enriched rice (IER) with extruded iron premix rice (IPR) using ferrous sulfate as fortificant (ExFeSO4); the second group received IER with extruded IPR using micronized dispersible ferric pyrophosphate (ExFeP80); and the third group received non-fortified rice (Control). These were administered daily for 5 days a week for 6 months. Blood samples were collected at baseline after 3 and 6 months. At baseline, one child in the ExFeP80 group was suffering from IDA; at 3 months, no IDA was found in any groups; while at 6 months, one child in the ExFeP80 developed IDA. The baseline prevalence of anemia in all groups, which was 100%, was significantly reduced to 51%, 54%, and 63% in the ExFeSO4, ExFeP80 and Control groups respectively. After 6 months, further significant reductions were observed in the ExFeSO4 (38%) and ExFeP80 (33%) but remained at 63% in the Control group. Greater, significant increases were also observed in plasma ferritin in the fortified groups than in the Control group from baseline to 6 months. The predictors of change in hemoglobin (Hb) and plasma ferritin were group allocation and basal values. The consumption of rice fortified with FeP80 using extrusion technology has similar effects as that of FeSO4 in reducing the prevalence of IDA among schoolchildren.
18792941	GlimmerM is a eukaryotic gene finder that has been used in the annotation of the genomes of Plasmodium falciparum (the malaria parasite), the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa (rice), the parasite Theileria parva, and the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus. A unique feature of the system compared to other eukaryotic gene finders is a module that allows users to provide their own data and train GlimmerM for any organism.
18793148	Protein turnover is a key post-translational event that regulates numerous cellular processes. It enables cells to respond rapidly to intracellular signals and changing environmental conditions by adjusting the levels of pivotal proteins. A major proteolytic pathway involves the ubiquitination of target proteins and subsequent targeting to the 26S proteasome for degradation. Many F-box proteins play a determining role in the substrate specificity of this degradation pathway. In most cases, selective recognition of the target proteins relies on protein-protein interactions mediated by the C-terminal domain of the F-box proteins. In mammals, the occurrence of F-box proteins with a C-terminal SBD (sugar-binding domain) that specifically interacts with high-mannose N-glycans on target glycoproteins has been documented. The identification and characterization of these sugar-binding F-box proteins demonstrated that F-box proteins do not exclusively use protein-protein interactions but also protein-carbohydrate interactions in the Ub (ubiquitin)/proteasome pathway. Recently, putative sugar-binding F-box proteins have been identified in plants. Genome analyses in Arabidopsis and rice revealed the presence of F-box proteins with a C-terminal lectin-related domain homologous with Nictaba, a jasmonate-inducible lectin from tobacco that was shown to interact with the core structure of high-mannose and complex N-glycans. Owing to the high similarity in structure and specificity between Nictaba and the SBD of the mammalian Fbs proteins, a similar role for the plant F-box proteins with a Nictaba domain in nucleocytoplasmic protein degradation in plant cells is suggested.
18793407	Simple Sequence Repeat (SSR) or microsatellite markers are valuable for genetic research. Experimental methods to develop SSR markers are laborious, time consuming and expensive. In silico approaches have become a practicable and relatively inexpensive alternative during the last decade, although testing putative SSR markers still is time consuming and expensive. In many species only a relatively small percentage of SSR markers turn out to be polymorphic. This is particularly true for markers derived from expressed sequence tags (ESTs). In EST databases a large redundancy of sequences is present, which may contain information on length-polymorphisms in the SSR they contain, and whether they have been derived from heterozygotes or from different genotypes. Up to now, although a number of programs have been developed to identify SSRs in EST sequences, no software can detect putatively polymorphic SSRs. We have developed PolySSR, a new pipeline to identify polymorphic SSRs rather than just SSRs. Sequence information is obtained from public EST databases derived from heterozygous individuals and/or at least two different genotypes. The pipeline includes PCR-primer design for the putatively polymorphic SSR markers, taking into account Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) in the flanking regions, thereby improving the success rate of the potential markers. A large number of polymorphic SSRs were identified using publicly available EST sequences of potato, tomato, rice, Arabidopsis, Brassica and chicken.The SSRs obtained were divided into long and short based on the number of times the motif was repeated. Surprisingly, the frequency of polymorphic SSRs was much higher in the short SSRs. PolySSR is a very effective tool to identify polymorphic SSRs. Using PolySSR, several hundred putative markers were developed and stored in a searchable database. Validation experiments showed that almost all markers that were indicated as putatively polymorphic by polySSR were indeed polymorphic. This greatly improves the efficiency of marker development, especially in species where there are low levels of polymorphism, like tomato. When combined with the new sequencing technologies PolySSR will have a big impact on the development of polymorphic SSRs in any species.PolySSR and the polymorphic SSR marker database are available from http://www.bioinformatics.nl/tools/polyssr/.
18794528	Zea mays, commonly known as corn, is perhaps the most greatly produced crop in terms of tonnage and a major food, feed, and biofuel resource. Here we analyzed its prolamin gene family, encoding the major seed storage proteins, as a model for gene evolution by syntenic alignments with sorghum and rice, two genomes that have been sequenced recently. Because a high-density gene map has been constructed for maize inbred B73, all prolamin gene copies can be identified in their chromosomal context. Alignment of respective chromosomal regions of these species via conserved genes allow us to identify the pedigree of prolamin gene copies in space and time. Its youngest and largest gene family, the alpha prolamins, arose about 22-26 million years ago (Mya) after the split of the Panicoideae (including maize, sorghum, and millet) from the Pooideae (including wheat, barley, and oats) and Oryzoideae (rice). The first dispersal of alpha prolamin gene copies occurred before the split of the progenitors of maize and sorghum about 11.9 Mya. One of the two progenitors of maize gained a new alpha zein locus, absent in the other lineage, to form a nonduplicated locus in maize after allotetraplodization about 4.8 Mya. But dispersed copies gave rise to tandem duplications through uneven expansion and gene silencing of this gene family in maize and sorghum, possibly because of maize's greater recombination and mutation rates resulting from its diploidization process. Interestingly, new gene loci in maize represent junctions of ancestral chromosome fragments and sites of new centromeres in sorghum and rice.
18794894	To investigate the influences of red mold rice (RMR) on obesity and related metabolic abnormalities. The 3T3-L1 cell line was used to examine the effects of RMR extracts on preadipocytes and on mature adipocytes. Both water and ethanol extracts of RMR had inhibitory effects on 3T3-L1 preadipocyte proliferation and differentiation. Water extracts of RMR enhanced the lipolysis activity in mature adipocytes, which negatively correlated with the triglyceride content within cells. RMR treatment did not affect heparin-releasable lipoprotein lipase activity in mature adipocytes. Furthermore, animal studies were carried out to explore the antiobesity effects of RMR. The control group of male Wistar rats were fed regular laboratory feed, whereas the other groups were fed the high-fat (HF) diet supplemented with lovastatin, rice or RMR (0.4 and 2%, w w(-1)). The relative caloric intakes of the control and HF groups were 3.34 and 4.85 kcal g(-1), respectively. After 6 weeks, rats treated with RMR at the 0.4 and 2% doses had lower weight gain and less fat pads mass accompanied with smaller fat cells than did the HF-diet rats. These effects probably resulted from an increase in the lipolysis activity of adipose tissue and a reduction in food/energy consumption. On the other hand, the RMR supplement significantly reduced serum total cholesterol, serum low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, the ratio of LDL to high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and serum insulin in the HF group. Moreover, the 2% RMR treatment significantly increased serum HDL cholesterol. This study reveals for the first time that RMR can prevent body fat accumulation and improve dyslipidemia. The antiobesity effects of RMR mainly derive from the lipolytic activity and mild antiappetite potency of RMR. In addition, extracts of RMR suppressed the proliferation and differentiation in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, which might have contributed to the inhibition of new adipocyte formation or hyperplasia in adipose tissue.
18795078	Consumption of glucose or foodstuffs with high glycaemic index (GI) in persons with type 1 diabetes mellitus (PWD1) is a hot topic in present diabetology. The aim of our pilot prospective study was to assess the efficiency of empirically suggested simple algorithms for premeal boluses in PWD1 using insulin pumps and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM). Six PWD1 (aged 46.2+/-15.09 y, diabetes duration 14.5+/-9.65 y, HbA1c/IFCC 6.3+/-1.59%, BMI 23.6+/-1.67 kg/m(2), mean+/-SD) on insulin pumps Paradigm 522/722 with RT-CGMS sensors (Medtronic MiniMed, Northridge, CA) underwent a 12-week CGM. In one week, subjects consumed 50 g of carbohydrates in eleven alternative meals (rice squares, dark chocolate, white bread, honey, glucose, ravioli with meat and Eidam cheese, mashed potatoes with fish fingers, apricot dumplings with butter, spa waffles, spalta squares, and tomato soup with pasta) eaten for breakfasts, lunches, snacks and dinners in order to calculate their GI. The insulin boluses were adjusted according to empirically defined algorithms. Average glucose levels and daily insulin doses over three one-week periods (before testing, testing and after testing) were compared. During the observational period, the weekly averages of glucose levels (9.1+/-2.33 mmol/l vs. 9.2+/-2.30 mmol/l vs. 9.0+/-2.43 mmol/l, respectively) and daily insulin doses (39.1+/- 8.14 IU/d vs. 39.7+/-10.7 IU/d vs. 38.6+/-9.97 IU/d, respectively) were similar. One-week consumption of high GI foodstuffs had only a negligeable effect on average glucose levels. The suggested algorithms for premeal insulin boluses appear to limit the risk of potential hyperglycaemia resulting from intake of high GI foodstuffs.
18795250	Bacterial blight, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), is the most devastating plant bacterial disease worldwide. Different bacterial blight resistance (R) genes confer race-specific resistance to different strains of Xoo. We fine mapped a fully recessive gene, xa24, for bacterial blight resistance to a 71-kb DNA fragment in the long arm of rice chromosome 2 using polymerase chain reaction-based molecular markers. The xa24 gene confers disease resistance at the seedling and adult stages. It mediates resistance to at least the Philippine Xoo races 4, 6 and 10 and Chinese Xoo strains Zhe173, JL691 and KS-1-21. Sequence analysis of the DNA fragment harboring the dominant (susceptible) allele of xa24 suggests that this gene should encode a novel protein that is not homologous to any known R proteins. These results will greatly facilitate the isolation and characterization of xa24. The markers will be convenient tools for marker-assisted selection of xa24 in breeding programs.
18795815	The rice frog, Fejervarya multistriata, is an amphibian widely distributed in China. In this study, we sampled the species across its distributional area in China and sequenced the mtDNA D-loop to investigate the genetic diversity and geographical pattern of the frog population. The results revealed 38 haplotypes in the population, with K2P values varying from 0.19% to 4.22%. Both a phylogenetic analysis and a nested clade analysis (NCA) detected two geographically isolated lineages respectively distributed around the Yangtze drainage (Yangtze lineage) and the south of China (southern lineage). NCA inferred a contiguous range expansion within the Yangtze lineage and allopatric fragmentation within the southern lineage, which might be partly due to the limited samples from this lineage. Accordingly, Fu's Fs test also indicated a population expansion after glacial movement. Therefore, we assumed that the species history responding to glacial events shaped the present population pattern of F. multistriata on the Chinese mainland.
18796165	Antisense transcription is a widespread phenomenon in plants and mammals. Our previous data on rice gene expression analysis by microarray indicated that the sense and antisense transcripts at the OsDof12 locus were co-expressed in leaves. In current study, we analyzed the expression patterns in detail and looked for the possible mechanism related to their expression patterns. OsDof12, being a single copy gene located on rice chromosome 3, encodes a predicted Dof protein of 440 amino acids with one intron of 945 bp. The antisense transcript, OsDofl2os, overlaps with both the exonic and intronic regions of OsDof12 and encodes a functionally unknown protein of 104 amino acids with no intron. The sense-antisense OsDof12 transcripts were co-expressed within the same tissues, and their expressions were not tissue-specific in general. At different developmental stages in rice, the OsDof12 and OsDof12os transcripts exhibited reciprocal expression patterns. Interestingly, the expression of both genes was significantly induced under drought treatment, and inhibited by dark treatment. In the ProOsDof12-GUS and ProOsDof12os-GUS transgenic rice plants, the expression profiles of GUS were consistent with those of the OsDof12 and OsDof12os transcripts, respectively. In addition, the analysis of cis-regulatory elements indicated that either of the two promoters contained 74 classes of cis-regulatory elements predicted, of which the two promoter regions shared 53 classes. Based on the expression profiles of OsDof12 and OsDof12os, the expression patterns of GUS in the ProOsDof12-GUS and ProOsDof12os-GUS transgenic rice plants and the predicted common cis-regulatory elements shared by the two promoters, we suggest that the co-expression patterns of OsDof12 and OsDof12os might be attributed to the basically common nature of the two promoters.
18797792
18797800	Burkholderia kururiensis is a diazotrophic bacterium originally isolated from a polluted aquifer environment and presents a high level of similarity with the rice endophyte "B. brasilensis" species. This work assessed the ability of B. kururiensis to endophytically colonize rice plantlets by monitoring different tissues of root-inoculated plants for the presence of bacterial growth in different media, electron microscopy and by 16S rDNA analysis. Observations of roots, stems and leaves of inoculated rice plantlets by electron microscopy revealed B. kururiensis colonization predominantly on root hair zones, demonstrating endophytic colonization primarily through the endodermis, followed by spreading into xylem vessels, a possible pathway leading to aerial parts. Although indifferent for the bacterial growth itself, addition of a nitrogen source was a limiting factor for endophytic colonization. As endophytic colonization was directly associated to an enhanced plant development, production of phytohormone auxin/indole-3-acetic acid by B. kururiensis was assayed with transgenic rice plantlets containing an auxin-responsive reporter (DR5-GUS). Our findings suggest the ability of auxin production by plant-associated B. kururiensis which may have a stimulatory effect on plant development, as evidenced by activation of DR5-GUS. We hereby demonstrate, for the first time, the ability of B. kururiensis to endophytically colonize rice, promoting both plant growth and rice grain yield.
18797872	The SnRK2 gene family is a group of plant-specific protein kinases that has been implicated in ABA and abiotic stress signaling. We found 11 SnRK2s in maize, assigned names from ZmSnRK2.1 to ZmSnRK2.11 and cloned ten of them. By analyzing the gene structure of all the SnRK2s from Arabidopsis, rice, and maize, we found seven exons that were conserved in length among most of the SnRK2s. Although the C-terminus was divergent, we found seven conserved motifs. Of these, motif 1 was common to all of the SnRK2 genes. Based on phylogenetic analysis using the kinase domain and motif 1, the SnRK2s were divided into three groups. Motifs 4 and 5 were found specifically in group I, and many genes of this group have been confirmed to be induced by ABA. This result suggests that these two motifs mediate the ABA response. The expression patterns of ZmSnRK2 genes were characterized by using quantitative real-time RCR, which revealed that ZmSnRK2 genes were induced by one or more abiotic stress treatments and therefore may play important roles in maize stress responses.
18798039	To assure the homogeneity of a reference material for the mycotoxin sterigmatocystin (STE), a study was first conducted to prepare a reference material of rice containing the colouring Food Red 106. The protocol developed was then used to prepare a reference material of rice containing STE. Initially, a V-shaped mixer was used to mix Food Red 106 and ground brown rice, but the resulting mixture was non-homogeneous. However, when a ShakeMaster was used for the simultaneous grinding and mixing of brown rice with Food Red 106, good homogeneity was obtained. Accordingly, a dried culture of Aspergillus versicolor NRRL5219 and brown rice was ground and mixed with the ShakeMaster. To assess the distribution of the STE an Autoprep MF-A 1000 mini-column was used to isolate the STE, and a 115-120% recovery rate was obtained. Repeatability (variability within a day) and intermediate precision (variability between days) were good. According to the IUPAC/ISO/AOAC International Harmonized Protocol for the Proficiency Testing of Analytical Chemistry Laboratories, a homogeneous candidate reference material was obtained. The particle sizes of ground brown rice, ground brown rice containing Food Red 106, and ground brown rice containing a non-STE producing culture of A. oryzae were analysed and they ranged from 10 to 700 microm.
18799322	Collisional electron transfer from gaseous Cs atoms was studied for singly and doubly protonated peptides Gly-Arg (GR) and Ala-Arg (AR) at 50- and 100-keV kinetic energies. Singly protonated GR and AR were discharged to radicals that in part rearranged by migration of a C(alpha) hydrogen atom onto the guanidine group. The C(alpha)-radical isomers formed were detected as stable anions following transfer of a second electron. In addition to the stabilizing rearrangements, the radicals underwent side-chain and backbone dissociations. The latter formed z fragments that were detected as the corresponding anions. Analysis of the (GR + H)(.) radical potential energy surface using electronic structure theory in combination with Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations of rate constants indicated that the arginine C(alpha) hydrogen atom was likely to be transferred to the arginine side-chain on the experimental timescale of <or=200 ns. Transfer of the Gly C(alpha)H was calculated to have a higher transition-state energy and was not kinetically competitive. Collisional electron transfer to doubly protonated GR and AR resulted in complete dissociation of (GR + 2H)(+.) and (AR + 2H)(+.) ions by loss of H, ammonia, and NC(alpha) bond cleavage. Electronic structure theory analysis of (GR + 2H)(+.) indicated the presence of multiple conformers and electronic states that differed in reactivity and steered the dissociations to distinct channels. Electron attachment to (GR + 2H)(2+) resulted in the formation of closely spaced electronic states of (GR + 2H)(+.) in which the electron density was delocalized over the guanidinium, ammonium, amide, and carboxyl groups. The different behavior of (GR + H)(.) and (GR + 2H)(+.) is explained by the different timescales for dissociation and different internal energies acquired upon electron transfer.
18800225	Neutral invertases (NIs, EC 3.2.1.26) cleave sucrose to glucose and fructose. They are encoded by a small gene family of 9 members in the Arabidopsis genome, 8 in rice, 16 in poplar and 9 in Vitis vinifera (L.). The grapevine NIs were identified in the 8.4X genome assembly of the quasi-homozygous line PN40024. In addition, alleles of three NIs were sequenced in the heterozygous cultivar 'Cabernet Sauvignon'. Analyses of sequence variation between alleles, homoeologous and paralogous copies in grapevine and their orthologues in Arabidopsis, poplar and rice are provided. In grapevine, NIs were classified into four alpha NIs and five beta NIs and subsequently grouped into hierarchical clades using a combination of evidence including amino acid identity, exon/intron structure, rate of synonymous substitutions (K (s)) and chromosomal distribution. Estimation of K (s) proved the ancient origin of all NIs and the lack of expansion by gene duplication past the event of polyploidisation. We then focused on transcription analysis of five NIs for which evidence of expression was available from expressed sequence tag databases. Among these, four NIs consisted of pairs of homoeologous copies, each pair lying on a pair of chromosomes duplicated by polyploidy. Unequal expression of homoeologous genes was observed by quantitative RT-PCR in leaf, flower, seed and root tissues. Since NIs might play significant roles in fruit and wine quality, NIs expression was monitored in flesh and skin of 'Merlot' berries and shown in parallel with the suite of changes that accompany fruit ripening, including glucose and fructose accumulation.
18800809	Arsenic (As) species were quantified by HPLC-HG-AFS in water and vegetables from a rural area of West Bengal (India). Inorganic species predominated in vegetables (including rice) and drinking water; in fact, inorganic arsenic (i-As) represented more than 80% of the total arsenic (t-As) content. To evaluate i-As intake in an arsenic affected rural village, a food survey was carried out on 129 people (69 men and 60 women). The data from the survey showed that the basic diet, of this rural population, was mainly rice and vegetables, representing more than 50% of their total daily food intake. During the periods when nonvegetarian foods (fish and meat) were scarce, the importance of rice increased, and rice alone represented more than 70% of the total daily food intake. The food analysis and the food questionnaires administrated led us to establish a daily intake of i-As of about 170 microg i-As day (-1), which was above the tolerable daily intake of 150 microg i-As day (-1), generally admitted. Our results clearly demonstrated that food is a very important source of i-As and that this source should never be forgotten in populations depending heavily on vegetables (mainly rice) for their diet.
18802738	Today there is a concern about the use of animal source proteins and peptides in cell culture applications due to potential contamination by adventitious infectious pathogens. Recombinant production of these proteins using a plant host provides a safe and cost effective alternative. In this paper, we tested the effect of rice-derived recombinant human lactoferrin (rhLF) on mammalian cell growth. The purified rhLF was partially (about 50%) iron-saturated (pis-rhLF). Chemical modification of pis-rhLF generated apo-rhLF (<10% iron saturation) or holo-rhLF (>90% iron saturation). All three forms of rhLF (pis, apo, holo) promoted growth of intestinal cells (HT-29) measured as [(3)H]-thymidine incorporation or viable cell count, but holo-rhLF was most effective. Holo-rhLF was further tested on hybridoma, osteoblast, and human embryonic kidney cells. Results showed that holo-rhLF promoted cell growth and reduced cell doubling time. The concentration of holo-rhLF in media was critical in promoting cell growth and each cell line had different concentration dependence with the most effective range from 5 to 200 mg/L. The effect of rhLF on antibody production was determined using a hybridoma cell line. Significantly, more antibodies were produced by cells grown with holo-rhLF than cells grown without holo-rhLF. We also compared the effect of holo-rhLF to that of human transferrin, a component commonly used in cell culture media as an iron source. Holo-rhLF was as effective as human transferrin in promoting cell growth and antibody production. Considering all the data obtained, we conclude that rhLF from rice is effective in promoting mammalian cell growth and increasing cell productivity.
18803111	Penoxsulam is a triazolopyrimidine sulfonamide group of rice herbicide. The phototransformation of penoxsulam was studied under UV light (lambda max >or= 290 nm) and sunlight in aqueous methanol and acetonitrile solvent system using TiO2 as sensitizer. The rate of photodegradation of penoxsulam in different solvent systems followed first-order kinetics and calculated half-lives was found to be in the range of 51.89-73.41 h and 62.70-97.09 h for UV light and sunlight respectively in the presence or absence of sensitizer. From this study, a total of six photoproducts were identified and characterized on the basis of Q-Tof micromass spectral data. The plausible mechanism of phototransformation involved were hydrolysis, photo oxidation of the sulfonamide group, breaking of sulfonamide bond, loss of amino and sulfonic acid group.
18803175	Rice brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens Stål, is a primary insect pest of cultivated rice, and effective control is essential for economical crop production. Resistance to neonicotinoid insecticides, in particular imidacloprid, has been reported as an increasing constraint in recent years. In order to investigate the extent of resistance, 24 samples of N. lugens were collected from China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam during 2005 and 2006. Their responses to two diagnostic doses of imidacloprid (corresponding approximately to the LC(95) and 5 x LC(95) of a susceptible strain) were examined. Ten of the 12 samples collected during 2005 were found to be susceptible to imidacloprid, but two late-season samples from India showed reduced mortality at both diagnostic doses. All 13 strains collected in 2006 showed reduced mortality at both doses when compared with the susceptible strain. Dose-response lines showed resistance in one of the most resistant field strains to be approximately 100-fold compared with the susceptible standard. The data demonstrate the development and spread of neonicotinoid resistance in N. lugens in Asia and support reports of reduced field efficacy of imidacloprid.
18803329	In 2003 the development of insecticide resistance against neonicotinoids in the brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Homoptera: Delphacidae), was first observed in Thailand and has since been found in other Asian countries such as Vietnam, China and Japan. However, the LD(50) values of BPH and the whitebacked planthopper (WBPH), Sogatella furcifera (Horváth), against both neonicotinoid and phenylpyrazole insecticides have been poorly reported in many Asian countries. The topical LD(50) values for imidacloprid in the BPH populations collected from East Asia (Japan, China, Taiwan) and Vietnam in 2006 were 4.3-24.2 microg g(-1) and were significantly higher than those collected from the Philippines (0.18-0.35 microg g(-1)). The BPH populations indicated a positive cross-resistance between imidacloprid and thiamethoxam. Almost all the WBPH populations from Japan, Taiwan, China, Vietnam and the Philippines had extremely large LD(50) values (19.7-239 microg g(-1) or more) for fipronil, except for several populations from the Philippines and China. Species-specific changes in insecticide susceptibility were found in Asian rice planthoppers (i.e. BPH for imidacloprid and WBPH for fipronil). Insecticide resistance in BPH against imidacloprid occurred in East Asia and Indochina, but not in the Philippines. In contrast, insecticide resistance in WBPH against fipronil occurred widely in East and South-east Asia.
18803729	Rice-based complementary foods normally contain inadequate amounts of several micronutrients, such as iron, calcium, and zinc. This study aimed at improving the quality of commercially produced rice-based complementary foods. The analysis centered on identifying a rice-based complementary food that is safe, stable, sensory acceptable, and economical in terms of fortificants (iron, calcium, zinc, thiamine, folate) and effectively packaged for industrial production and distribution. Product colors were mostly in green-yellow tone and slightly changed to more yellow during storage. Sensory acceptability was affected by changes in odor and rancidity but not in color. Rancidity scores were low in aluminum foil laminated plastic bags (ALU). Lipid oxidation significantly increased during storage, but at a slower rate when sodium citrate and ALU were used. Color differences of raw products were detected but not in the cooked ones. Mineral and vitamin losses during processing were 2% to 11% and 20% to 30%, respectively, but no losses were found during storage. FeSO(4)+ NaFeEDTA added with sodium citrate resulted in the most acceptable product for all packagings. The multiple-fortified quick-cooking rice (MFQCR) developed from this study could be a potentially useful tool for combating micronutrient deficiencies among infants and young children in the countries where rice is the staple food.
18803885	The geographic and temporal distribution of M and S molecular forms of the major Afrotropical malaria vector species Anopheles gambiae s.s. at the western extreme of their range of distribution has never been investigated in detail. Collections of indoor-resting An. gambiae s.l. females were carried out along a ca. 400 km west to east transect following the River Gambia from the western coastal region of The Gambia to south-eastern Senegal during 2005 end of rainy season/early dry season and the 2006 rainy season. Specimens were identified to species and molecular forms by PCR-RFLP and the origin of blood-meal of fed females was determined by ELISA test. Over 4,000 An. gambiae s.l. adult females were collected and identified, 1,041 and 3,038 in 2005 and 2006, respectively. M-form was mainly found in sympatry with Anopheles melas and S-form in the western part of the transect, and with Anopheles arabiensis in the central part. S-form was found to prevail in rural Sudan-Guinean savannah areas of Eastern Senegal, in sympatry with An. arabiensis. Anopheles melas and An. arabiensis relative frequencies were generally lower in the rainy season samples, when An. gambiae s.s. was prevailing. No large seasonal fluctuations were observed for M and S-forms. In areas where both M and S were recorded, the frequency of hybrids between them ranged from to 0.6% to 7%. The observed pattern of taxa distribution supports the hypothesis of a better adaptation of M-form to areas characterized by water-retaining alluvial deposits along the Gambia River, characterized by marshy vegetation, mangrove woods and rice cultivations. In contrast, the S-form seems to be better adapted to free-draining soil, covered with open woodland savannah or farmland, rich in temporary larval breeding sites characterizing mainly the eastern part of the transect, where the environmental impact of the Gambia River is much less profound and agricultural activities are mainly rain-dependent. Very interestingly, the observed frequency of hybridization between the molecular forms along the whole transect was much higher than has been reported so far for other areas. The results support a bionomic divergence between the M and S-forms, and suggest that the western extreme of An. gambiae s.s. geographical distribution may represent an area of higher-than-expected hybridization between the two molecular forms.
18804063	Stale rice is typically discarded as waste because it has low eating quality as well as low nutritional and biofunctional values resulting from long-time storage. After solid-state fermentation with Cordyceps sinensis, fermented stale rice (FSR) grains contained higher amount of protein, carbohydrate, lipid, dietary fibre, vitamin E, beta-glucan, amino acids and ergosterol than non-fermented stale rice. It also exhibited increased superoxide dismutase activity. When mice were administrated with powdered FSR in 1% carboxymethyl cellulose sodium salt solution (FSR-CMC-Na), increases in monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) in brain, lipid peroxides (LPOs) in liver, and myocardial lipofuscin related to aging were inhibited, while the activity of MAO-B in liver was not significantly changed. The results suggest that solid-state fermentation of low-valued or waste stale rice could produce an important bioresource to develop bioactive food materials.
18804072	Drought is very harmful to grain yield due to its adverse effect on reproduction, especially on pollination process in rice. However, the molecular basis of such an effect still remains largely unknown. Here, we report the role of a member of CBL (Calcineurin B-Like) Interacting Protein Kinase (CIPK) family, OsCIPK23, in pollination and stress responses in rice. Molecular analyses revealed that it is mainly expressed in pistil and anther but up-regulated by pollination, as well as by treatments of various abiotic stresses and phytohormones. RNA interference-mediated suppression of OsCIPK23 expression significantly reduced seed set and conferred a hypersensitive response to drought stress, indicating its possible roles in pollination and drought stress. In consistent, overexpression of OsCIPK23 induced the expression of several drought tolerance related genes. Taken together, these results indicate that OsCIPK23 is a multistress induced gene and likely mediates a signaling pathway commonly shared by both pollination and drought stress responses in rice.
18804076	Late season drought coinciding with the rice booting to heading stage affects the development of plant height, panicle exsertion, and flag leaf size, and causes significant yield loss. In this study, a recombinant inbred line population derived from a cross between paddy and upland cultivars was used for data collection of the morphologic traits under well water and drought stress conditions. Drought stress was applied at the stage of panicle initiation in the field in 2002 and at the booting stage in PVC pipes in 2003. The data from stress conditions and their ratios (trait measured under stress condition/trait measured under well water condition) or differences (trait measured under stress condition minus trait measured under well water condition) were used for QTL analysis. Totally, 17 and 36 QTLs for these traits were identified in 2002 and 2003, respectively, which explained a range of 2.58%-29.82% of the phenotypic variation. Among them, six QTLs were commonly identified in the two years, suggesting that the drought stress in the two years was different. The genetic basis of these traits will provide useful information for improving rice late season drought resistance, and their application as indirect indices in rice late season drought resistance screening was also discussed.
18804650	A preconcentration method for manganese determination by sequential injection cloud point extraction with subsequent detection by flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) has been developed. The enrichment of Mn was performed after a preliminary on-line cloud point extraction and entrapment of manganese-containing surfactant aggregated within a minicolumn packed with cotton. The laboratory-made reagent 4-(5'-bromo-2'-thiazolylazo)orcinol (Br-TAO) and the surfactant Triton X-114 were used for cloud point extraction. The manganese ions were eluted with sulphuric acid solution and directly introduced into the FAAS. Chemical and flow variables affecting the preconcentration were studied. Using a sample volume of 2.80 mL the limit of detection and enrichment factor were calculated to be 0.5 microg L(-1) and 14, respectively. The sample frequency is 48 h(-1), considering a total run cycle of 75 s. The accuracy of the proposed method has been demonstrated by the analysis of the certified reference biological materials rice flour and tomato leaves. The method has been applied to determination of manganese in food samples.
18804656	Several solvent mixtures and techniques for the extraction of arsenic (As) species from rice flour samples prior to their analysis by HPLC-ICP-MS were investigated. Microwave-assisted extraction using water at 80 degrees C for 30 min provided the highest extraction efficiency. Total recoveries of extracted As species were in good agreement with the total As concentrations determined by ICP-MS after microwave-assisted acid digestion of the samples. Arsenite [As(III)], arsenate [As(V)] and dimethylarsinic acid (DMAA) were the main species detected in rice flour samples.
18806108	Processed complementary foods (PCF) might mitigate several complementary feeding barriers in developing countries. Efficacy trials, however, have not shown substantial improvements in child growth, possibly due to inadequate formative research to assess acceptability and identify pitfalls. Milk powder might improve palatability of PCF but incurs a higher cost. We compared the acceptability of an instant soy-rice PCF without (SR) and with (SRM) milk powder. Best practices for formative evaluation of PCF are not established. We therefore compared findings from randomized trials of SR vs. SRM in 1-d sensory tests (n = 71 mother-infant dyads) vs. Trials of Improved Practices (TIPs), a 2-wk in-home mixed methods evaluation (n = 54 dyads). TIPs included interviews, disappearance rates, observations, and 24-h dietary recalls to assess acceptance, consumption of the 50 g/d ration, and impact on diet. Although mothers preferred SRM to SR in the sensory tests, children in the TIPs consumed >50 g/d of SR (87 +/- 9 g/d) and SRM (89 +/- 8 g/d) with no difference between the foods (P = 0.55). Despite some replacement of family food, energy (574 kJ/d; P < 0.001) and protein (19 g protein/d; P < 0.001) increased in both groups. Mothers' preferences for milk, more sugar in SR, and preparation with hot water were concerns raised in the sensory tests that proved insignificant in TIPs. However, TIPs uncovered new concerns of overconsumption and food safety. We found milk did not improve the acceptability of the soy-rice PCF and recommend TIPs as a useful tool for formative research of PCF interventions.
18807315
18807982	Glutinous rice wine is a traditional food in south of China and it can coagulate milk. It has been proved that its function of coagulating milk is because of the presence of milk-clotting enzyme produced by microorganisms in glutinous rice wine. The aim of this work is to isolate milk-clotting enzyme producing strain from glutinous rice wine and study the fermentation condition. We screened out four bacteria and fungus by gradient dilution. It was proved that mold played the most important role in the production of milk-clotting enzyme. This is further confirmed by casein plate method. The optimization of fermentation conditions revealed that two times concentrated potato medium supplemented with 5% glucose without additional nitrogen was better for production of the enzyme. The enzyme activity was increased 144% under the conditions established.
18808002	Cellulases are relatively costly enzymes that are sold in large volumes for use in different industrial applications, and a significant reduction in cost will be important for their commercial use in biorefineries. The production of cellulase is a major factor in the hydrolysis of cellulosic materials. Hence it is essential to make the process economically viable. A strain (L-06) with high cellulase activity was screened from rice straw compost and classified as Penicillium decumbens by the analysis of its morphology and 18S rRNA gene sequences. Different conditions of liquid fermentation medium including nitrogen source, carbon source, surfactant, temperature, initial pH, inoculation quantity for the production of cellulase had been studied. The maximal beta-1, 4-glucosidase(BGL) activity was 1662 u/mL which is 1.49 times of the previous and the maximal exo-beta-1, 4-glucanases(CBH) activity was 2770 u/mL which is 1.36 times of the previous, cultured in the optimal condition for three days. And the maximal endo-beta-1, 4-glucanases (EG) activity was 18064 u/mL which is 1.87 times of the previous and the maximal filter paper enzyme(FPase) activity was 4035 u/mL which is 1.47 times of the previous, cultured in the optimal condition for four days. In the optimization experiments, the EG and CBH in the culture condition (pH10) maintained 70% and 43% activity. In the culture condition (50 degrees C) EG and CBH maintained 59% and 68% activity, which showed heat and alkali resistant characteristics.
18808018	The correlations of rice plant nitrogen content with raw hyperspectral reflectance, first derivative hyperspectral reflectance, and hyperspectral characteristic parameters were analyzed, and the hyperspectral remote sensing diagnosis models of rice plant nitrogen nutritional status with these remote sensing parameters as independent variables were constructed and validated. The results indicated that the nitrogen content in rice plant organs had a variation trend of stem < sheath < spike < leaf. The spectral reflectance at visible light bands was leaf < spike < sheath < stem, but that at near-infrared bands was in adverse. The linear and exponential models with the raw hyperspectral reflectance at 796.7 nm and the first derivative hyperspectral reflectance at 738.4 nm as independent variables could better diagnose rice plant nitrogen nutritional status, with the decisive coefficients (R2) being 0.7996 and 0.8606, respectively; while the model with vegetation index (SDr - SDb) / (SDr + SDb) as independent variable, i. e., y = 365.871 + 639.323 ((SDr - SDb) / (SDr + SDb)), was most fit rice plant nitrogen content, with R2 = 0.8755, RMSE = 0.2372 and relative error = 11.36%, being able to quantitatively diagnose the nitrogen nutritional status of rice.
18808020	By using static chamber/gas chromatograph techniques, the N2O emission from rice-rapeseed rotation system in Chengdu Plain of Sichuan Basin was measured from June 2005 to June 2006, with its characteristics and affecting factors investigated. The results showed that the total emission of N2O in a rotation cycle was (8.3 +/- 2.8) kg x hm(-2) x a(-1), and the emission in rice season, rapeseed season and fallow season accounted for 30%, 65%, and 5% of the total, respectively. In rice season, the mean N2O flux was higher during alternative drainage and irrigation than during continuous flooding and drainage, and was roughly the same during continuous flooding and drainage. N application was the main driving factor for the appearance of N2O emission peak, and the lower moisture content in surface soil layer in rapeseed season and fallow season was the main cause inducing soil N2O absorption. Soil moisture, soil temperature, N application, and crop involvement affected the N2O emission to various extents, and soil moisture was the key factor affecting the N2O emission. To avoid the high frequency of dry and wet alternation in rice season or to regulate soil moisture content to a level of 50%-70% WFPS (percentage of water-filled pore space) in rapeseed season and fallow season could effectively decrease the N2O emission from the rice-rapeseed rotation system.
18808453	The plant genome contains a large number of disease resistance (R) genes that have evolved through diverse mechanisms. Here, we report that a long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposon contributed to the evolution of the rice blast resistance gene Pit. Pit confers race-specific resistance against the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, and is a member of the nucleotide-binding site leucine-rich repeat (NBS-LRR) family of R genes. Compared with the non-functional allele Pit(Npb), the functional allele Pit(K59) contains four amino acid substitutions, and has the LTR retrotransposon Renovator inserted upstream. Pathogenesis assays using chimeric constructs carrying the various regions of Pit(K59) and Pit(Npb) suggest that amino acid substitutions might have a potential effect in Pit resistance; more importantly, the upregulated promoter activity conferred by the Renovator sequence is essential for Pit function. Our data suggest that transposon-mediated transcriptional activation may play an important role in the refunctionalization of additional 'sleeping' R genes in the plant genome.
18810384	The reverse photoperiod-sensitive genic male sterility (PGMS) and thermo-sensitive genic male sterility (TGMS) lines have an opposite phenotype compared with normal PGMS and TGMS lines widely used by the two-line system in current hybrid rice seed production. Thus, the application of reverse PGMS and TGMS lines can compensate PGMS and TGMS lines in hybrid rice production. YiD1S is a reverse PGMS line, in which pollen fertility is mainly regulated by day-length, but also influenced by temperature. Genetic analysis indicated that male sterility of YiD1S was controlled by two recessive major genes. An F(2) population from a cross between YiD1S and 8528 was developed and used for molecular mapping of the two reverse PGMS genes which were first named rpms1 and rpms2. Both simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers and bulked segregant analysis (BSA) were used in this study. As a result, one reverse PGMS gene (rpms1) was mapped to the interval between SSR markers RM22980 (0.9 cM) and RM23017 (1.8 cM) on chromosome 8. Eight SSR markers, YDS818, RM22984, RM22986, RM22997, YDS816, RM23002, RM339 and YDS810 completely co-segregated with the rpms1 gene. Another reverse PGMS gene (rpms2) was mapped to the interval between SSR markers RM23898 (0.9 cM) and YDS926 (0.9 cM) on chromosome 9. The physical mapping information from publicly available resources shows that the rpms1 and rpms2 loci are located in a region of 998 and 68 kb, respectively. The analysis based on marker genotypes showed that the effect of rpms1 was slightly larger than that of rpms2 and that the two genes interacted in controlling male sterility.
18811733	During photosynthesis, triose-phosphates (trioseP) exported from the chloroplast to the cytosol are converted to sucrose via cytosolic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (cFBPase). Expression analysis in rice suggests that OscFBP1 plays a major role in the cytosolic conversion of trioseP to sucrose in leaves during the day. The isolated OscFBP1 mutants exhibited markedly decreased photosynthetic rates and severe growth retardation with reduced chlorophyll content, which results in plant death. Analysis of primary carbon metabolites revealed both significantly reduced levels of sucrose, glucose, fructose and starch in leaves of these mutants, and a high accumulation of sucrose to starch in leaves of rice plants. In the oscfbp1 mutants, products of glycolysis and the TCA cycle were significantly increased. A partitioning experiment of (14)C-labelled photoassimilates revealed altered carbon distributions including a slight increase in the insoluble fraction representing transitory starch, a significant decrease in the neutral fraction corresponding to soluble sugars and a high accumulation of phosphorylated intermediates and carboxylic acid fractions in the oscfbp1 mutants. These results indicate that the impaired synthesis of sucrose in rice cannot be sufficiently compensated for by the transitory starch-mediated pathways that have been found to facilitate plant growth in the equivalent Arabidopsis mutants.
18813955	Phosphorylation by protein kinase is a ubiquitous key mechanism in translating external stimuli such as drought stress. NPK1 is a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase identified in Nicotiana tabacum and plays important roles in cytokinesis and auxin signaling transduction and responses to multiple stresses. Here we report the evolution, structure, and comprehensive expression profile of 21 NPK1-like genes in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Phylogenetic analysis of NPK1-like sequences in rice (OsNPKL), Arabidopsis, and other plants reveals that NPK1-like genes could be classified into three subgroups. Three OsNPKL gene clusters, located on chromosome 1 (OsNPKL1, 2, 3, and 4), 5 (OsNPKL14 and 15), and 10 (OsNPKL19 and 20), respectively, were identified in the rice genome. These clustered genes, which most likely evolved by tandem gene duplication, belong to the same phylogenetic subgroup, with similar genomic structures and conserved motifs in the kinase domain, which is unique to this subgroup. Expression analysis of OsNPKL genes under abiotic stresses suggests that the stress-responsive genes are mainly from the same subgroup. Especially interesting is that all the clustered genes are induced by drought, salt, or cold stress, and a few members are very strongly induced by drought. Some of the clustered genes are also induced by abscisic acid. The gene cluster on chromosome 1 is co-located with a quantitative trait locus (QTL) related to drought resistance. Although the drought-induced expression levels of the four genes in the cluster show no difference between the two parents used for QTL mapping, sequence variation in coding regions of the genes between the parents has provided some clues for further functional characterization of this gene cluster in abiotic stress tolerance in rice.
18814582	Topsoil soil organic carbon (SOC) that plays an important role in mitigating atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) buildup is greatly affected by human activities. To evaluate the influence of land-use changes on SOC stocks in paddy soils, a new algorithm was developed by integrating MODIS (moderate resolution imaging spectral-radiometer) and TM/ETM data for timely monitoring the land-use change in Wujiang County. Thereafter, the land-use class-maps derived from MODIS and TM/ETM analyses were further used to estimate land use-induced carbon (C) pool changes in paddy topsoil of Wujiang County based upon the nationwide arable soil monitoring data and county level SOC reconnaissance data in 2003. The results showed that irrigation-based rice cultivation in Wujiang County has resulted in SOC content at an annual increasing rate of 0.01 g/kg over the period of 1984-2003, while the density of SOC in uplands and woodlands has decreased. Annual decreasing rate of SOC content was estimated to be 0.03 g/kg in uplands and 0.06 g/kg in woodlands. The total topsoil SOC stocks in paddy fields of Wujiang County have increased from 2.67 x 10(6) t C in 1984 to 2.69 x 10(6) t C in 2005. During 1984-2005, the total SOC sequestrations in rice paddies were greater than the SOC losses in woodlands and uplands. The temporal C loss might have exceeded the SOC sequestration in rice paddies due to their conversion to nursery lands and uplands since 2001. The results of this study suggest that changes of land use have a great influence on soil C sequestration, particularly on C stocks and C sequestration potential in paddy fields in developed areas of China.
18814653	The roles of guttation fluid, irrigation water, contact between plants and transplantation into contaminated soil in the transmission of Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) were assessed. RYMV presence and infectivity were tested by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) and by inoculation to susceptible rice cultivar BG90-2. The virus was readily detected in guttation fluid collected from infected rice plants. Transmission tests from this fluid led to high disease incidence (86.6%). Irrigation water collected at the base of infected plants growing in pots was less infectious, as inoculations led to disease incidences below 40%. No virus was detected and could be transmitted from field-irrigation water. Up to 44% healthy rice plants whose leaves were in contact with those of infected plants became infected but, no transmission occurred through intertwined roots. Transplantation of rice seedling into virus-contaminated soil also led to plant infection. However, virus survival in the soil decrease rapidly and infectivity was completely lost 14 days after soil contamination. Altogether, these results indicated that high planting densities of rice are likely to favour secondary spread of rice yellow mottle disease. Transplantation of rice seedlings not earlier than 2 weeks after soil preparation should prevent soil transmission of the virus. Although guttation fluid is highly infectious its contribution to virus infectivity in irrigation water is negligible as field-irrigation water was not found to be an infectious source for RYMV.
18814881	A new cold fiber solid-phase microextraction device was designed and constructed based on thermoelectric cooling. A three-stage thermoelectric cooler (TEC) was used for cooling a copper rod coated with a poly(dimethylsiloxane) (PDMS) hollow fiber, which served as the solid-phase microextraction (SPME) fiber. The copper rod was mounted on a commercial SPME plunger and exposed to the cold surface of the TEC, which was enclosed in a small aluminum box. A heat sink and a fan were used to dissipate the generated heat at the hot side of the TEC. By applying an appropriate dc voltage to the TEC, the upper part of the copper rod, which was in contact to the cold side of the TEC, was cooled and the hollow fiber reached a lower temperature through heat transfer. A thermocouple was embedded in the cold side of the TEC for indirect measurement of the fiber temperature. The device was applied in quantitative analysis of off-flavors in a rice sample. Hexanal, nonanal, and undecanal were chosen as three off-flavors in rice. They were identified according to their retention times and analyzed by GC-flame ionization detection instrument. Headspace extraction conditions (i.e., temperature and time) were optimized. Standard addition calibration graphs were obtained at the optimized conditions and the concentrations of the three analytes were calculated. The concentration of hexanal was also measured using a conventional solvent extraction method (697+/-143ng/g) which was comparable to that obtained from the cold fiber SPME method (644+/-8). Moreover, the cold fiber SPME resulted in better reproducibility and shorter analysis time. Cold fiber SPME with TEC device can also be used as a portable device for field sampling.
18815749	The dynamic changes of the activities of enzymes involving in starch biosynthesis, including ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), soluble starch synthases (SSS), starch branching enzyme (SBE) and starch debranching enzymes (DBE) were studied, and changes of fine structure of amylopectin were characterized by isoamylase treatment during rice grain development, using trans anti-waxy gene rice plants. The relationships between the activities of those key enzymes were also analyzed. The amylose synthesis was significantly inhibited in transgenic Wanjing 9522, but the total starch content and final grain weight were less affected as compared with those of non-transgenic Wanjing 9522 rice cultivar. Analyses on the changes of activities of enzymes involving in starch biosynthesis showed that different enzyme activities were expressed differently during rice endosperm development. Soluble starch synthase is relatively highly expressed in earlier stage of endosperm development, whilst maximal expression of granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS) occurred in mid-stage of endosperm development. No obvious differences in changes of the activities of AGPase and SBE between two rice cultivars investigated, except the DBEs. Distribution patterns of branches of amylopectin changed continually during the development of rice grains and varied between two rice cultivars. It was suggested that amylopectin synthesis be prior to the synthesis of amylose and different enzymes have different roles in controlling syntheses of branches of amylopectin.
18815891	Plant hormones function to coordinate plant growth and development. While the plant hormones, mainly auxin and cytokinin, are exogenously added to various plant tissue cultures, their effects on the organogenesis are apparent, but little is known concerning the molecular mechanisms by which they function in cultured cells. Rice, as a model plant in monocots, is also suitable to tissue culture studies. Here, we used four types of regeneration mediums with different relative concentrations of cytokinin and auxin for rice callus differentiation, the calli at different differentiation stages were collected for proteomic analysis. 2-dimensional electrophoresis revealed that 213 protein spots significantly differentially expressed during callus differentiation under different hormone conditions. By using mass spectrometry, 183 differentially expressed protein spots were identified to match 157 unique proteins. Most of these differential proteins were cellular/metabolic process-related proteins, whose different expression patterns may be correlated with the cytokinin and auxin regulation. Several hormone-related proteins were prominently featured in differentiated calli as compared with the initiated calli, such as alpha-amylase isoforms, mannose-binding rice lectin, putative dehydration stress-induced protein, cysteine endopeptidase and cystatin. All these results provide a novel insight into how the two plant hormones effect the callus differentiation in rice on the proteomic level.
18816042	The rate constant for the NCN + NO 2 reaction has been measured by a laser photolysis/laser-induced fluorescence technique in the temperature range of 260-296 K at pressures between 100 and 500 Torr with He and N 2 as buffer gases. The NCN radical was produced from the photolysis of NCN 3 at 193 nm and monitored by laser-induced fluorescence with a dye laser at 329.01 nm. The rate constant was found to increase with pressure but decrease with temperature, indicating that the reaction occurs via a long-lived intermediate stabilized by collisions with buffer gas. The reaction mechanism and rate constant are also theoretically predicted for the temperature range of 200-2000 K and the He and N 2 pressure range of 10 (-4) Torr to 1000 atm based on dual-channel Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory with the potential energy surface evaluated at the G2M//B3LYP/6-311+G(d) level. In the low-temperature range (<700 K), the most favorable reaction is the barrierless association channel that leads to the intermediate complex (NCN-NO 2). At high temperature, the direct O-abstraction reaction with a barrier of 9.8 kcal/mol becomes the dominant channel. The rate constant calculated by RRKM theory agrees reasonably well with experimental data.
18817078	Biosurfactant, produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa BSZ-07, was added to the rice straw decomposing process to enhance the production of reducing sugars. Observed by Fourier Transform InfraRed (FT-IR) and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) analysis, the purified biosurfactant was considered as a mixture of RL1 and RL2, which are two different types of rhamnolipids. Two different adding methods, adding the purified rhamnolipid and the on-site production of it were compared. The results showed that 0.5 g/L was the optimum concentration for adding purified rhamnolipid and the optimum temperature for on-site production was 30 degrees C for the first 48 h and 34 degrees C for the next 48 h. Under the optimum conditions, these two adding methods could improve the production of reducing sugar to 2.730 and 2.504 g/L, which was 22.30% and 12.20% higher than that of the rhamnolipid-free sample, respectively, which indicated that both of them were more effective than any other kind of surfactant discussed in this article. As the on-site production of rhamnolipid could omit the purification process, thus reducing the production cost effectively, it seemed to be a prospective adding method of the biosurfactant for enhancing rice straw decomposing.
18817116	The 2003 active fire observations from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), on board NASA's Terra and Aqua satellites, were analyzed to assess burning activity in the cropland areas of the Mississippi River Valley region. Agricultural burning was found to be an important contributor to fire activity in this region, accounting for approximately one-third of all burning. Agricultural fire activity showed two seasonal peaks: the first, smaller peak, occurring in June during the spring harvesting of wheat; and the second, bigger peak, in October during the fall harvesting of rice and soy. The seasonal signal in agricultural burning was predominantly evident in the early afternoon MODIS Aqua fire detections. A strong diurnal agricultural fire signal was prevalent during the fall harvesting months, as suggested by the substantially higher number (approximately 3.5 times) of fires detected by MODIS Aqua in the early afternoon, compared with those detected by MODIS Terra in the morning. No diurnal variations in agricultural fire activity were apparent during the springtime wheat-harvesting season. The seasonal and diurnal patterns in agricultural fire activity detected by MODIS are supported by known crop management practices in this region. MODIS data provide an important means to characterize and monitor agricultural fire dynamics and management practices.
18817130	The digestion and Volatile Fatty Acid (VFA) production from rice straw and oil palm fronds by cellulolytic bacteria isolated from the termite Coptotermes curvignathus were investigated. The bacteria were Acinetobacter strain Raminalimon, Enterobacter aerogenes strain Razmin C, Enterobacter cloacae strain Razmin B, Bacillus cereus strain Razmin A and Chryseobacterium kwangyangense strain Cb. Acinetobacter strain Raminalimon is an aerobic bacterium, while the other species are facultative anaerobes. There were significant differences (p<0.05) among the bacteria for Dry Matter (DM) lost and acetic acid production from rice straw and Acinetobacter strain Raminalimon showed the highest activity. The facultative bacteria C. kwangyangense strain Cb (cfu mL(-1) 231 x 10(-6), OD: 0.5), E. cloacae (cfu mL(-1) 68 x 10(-7), OD: 0.5) and E. aerogenes (cfu mL(-1) 33 x 10(-7), OD: 0.5) were used for digestion study with the rumen fluid microflora. The in vitro gas production technique was applied for the comparative study and the parameters measured were pH, gas (volume), dry matter lost, acetic acid, propionic acid and butyric acid concentrations. pH was not significantly (p<0.05) different among the five treatments. The bacterium C. kwangyangense strain Cb showed the highest activity (p<0.05) for DM lost, acetic acid, propionic acid and butyric acid production from rice straw when compared to the other bacterial activities. There was no significance (p<0.05) difference between the three bacteria for the dry matter lost of oil palm fronds but the production of Volatile Fatty Acids (VFA) was significantly (p<0.05) high in the treatment which was inoculated with C. kwangyangense strain Cb. The Gen Bank NCBI/EMBL accession numbers for the bacterial strains are EU332791, EU305608, EU305609, EU294508 and EU169201.
18817142	Three transgenic rice varieties namely Khazar, Neda and Nemat, all containing a cry1Ab gene, were evaluated through PCR analysis and field examinations for their resistance at natural infestation of insect pests during 2007. The results showed that all transgenic varieties produced 1.2 kb PCR product derived from application of cry1Ab gene. In field conditions, transgenic varieties exhibited high levels of resistance against natural infestation of stem borer and the damaged plants based on dead heart or white heat for them were less than 1%. Moreover, in stem-cut bioassay 100% of released larvae died within four days after infestation. These results demonstrate that expression of cry1Ab gene in the genome of transgenic varieties provided season-long protection from the natural infestation of lepidopteran insects.
18817199	The objective of the present study was to develop an effective protocol for optimum callus induction and complete plant regeneration for four varieties of rice (Oryza sativa L.) i.e., Super Basmati, Basmati-370, Basmati-371 and Fakhre Malakand. Calli were induced from mature seed scutelum. The Murashige and Skoog (MS) and Chu's N6 media containing hormone 2, 4-D (2, 4-Dichlorophenoxy acetic acid) in different concentrations were used for callus induction. Fakhre Malakand produced maximum calli on N6 media containing 3 mg L(-1) 2,4-D. while other three varieties showed maximum callus induction on N6 media containing 2.5 mg L(-1) 2,4-D. N6 media was found better than MS media for callus induction. For complete plant regeneration the calli of two varieties i.e., Basmati-370 and Basmati-371 were plated on N6 media containing different concentrations of NAA (1-Naphthalene acetic acid) and BAP (6-benzyl aminopurine). The maximum regeneration frequency (%) was observed on N6 media containing NAA 1 mg L(-1) and BAP 2.5 mg L(-1). It took 27-30 days for the callus to regenerate into a complete plant. Basmati-370 produced 4-7 plantlets per callus whereas Basmati-371 produced 4-8 plantlets per callus with regeneration frequencies of 61 and 69%, respectively.
18817256	For mass production of V. lecanii, three types of cultivation methods including liquid, solid and diphasic production systems were investigated. In the liquid state of production, six media were tested in stationary culture conditions. Among the six media tested, Molasses Yeast Broth (MYB) supported maximum sporulation (8.33 x 10(8) spores mL(-1)) and biomass production (746 mg/100 mL). In the MYB, 4% molasses concentration was found to produce highest spore count (8.56 x 10(8) spores mL(-1)) and biomass (776 mg/100 mL) followed by 5 and 6% molasses. Among the six solid substrates tested, rice grains supported highest spore production (1.14 g/100 g). In diphasic state of production, combination of MYB and rice grains produced the greatest amount of spores, (1.70 g/100 g). Results of this study indicated that diphasic method using MYB as liquid medium and rice as solid substrate are the best method and media for mass production of V1-7 isolate of V. lecanii.
18817260	A field experiment was conducted during 2001-2003 to evaluate the effect of water stress on the yield and yield components of four rice cultivars commonly grown in Mazandaran province, Iran. In northern Iran irrigated lowland rice usually experiences water deficit during the growing season include of land preparation time, planting, tillering stage, flowering and grain filing period. Recently drought affected 20 of 28 provinces in Iran; with the southeastern, central and eastern parts of the country being most severely affected. The local and improved cultivars used were Tarom, Khazar, Fajr and Nemat. The different water stress conditions were water stress during vegetative, flowering and grain filling stages and well watered was the control. Water stress at vegetative stage significantly reduced plant height of all cultivars. Water stress at flowering stage had a greater grain yield reduction than water stress at other times. The reduction of grain yield largely resulted from the reduction in fertile panicle and filled grain percentage. Water deficit during vegetative, flowering and grain filling stages reduced mean grain yield by 21, 50 and 21% on average in comparison to control respectively. The yield advantage of two semidwarf varieties, Fajr and Nemat, were not maintained under drought stress. Total biomass, harvest index, plant height, filled grain, unfilled grain and 1000 grain weight were reduced under water stress in all cultivars. Water stress at vegetative stage effectively reduced total biomass due to decrease of photosynthesis rate and dry matter accumulation.
18817564	Insecticide resistance of the main malaria vector, Anopheles gambiae, has been reported in south-western Burkina Faso, West Africa. Cross-resistance to DDT and pyrethroids was conferred by alterations at site of action in the sodium channel, the Leu-Phe kdr mutation; resistance to organophosphates and carbamates resulted from a single point mutation in the oxyanion hole of the acetylcholinesterase enzyme designed as ace-1R. An entomological survey was carried out during the rainy season of 2005 at Vallée du Kou, a rice growing area in south-western Burkina Faso. At the Vallée du Kou, both insecticide resistance mechanisms have been previously described in the M and S molecular forms of An. gambiae. This survey aimed i) to update the temporal dynamics and the circumsporozoite infection rate of the two molecular forms M and S of An. gambiae ii) to update the frequency of the Leu-Phe kdr mutation within these forms and finally iii) to investigate the occurrence of the ace-1R mutation. Mosquitoes collected by indoor residual collection and by human landing catches were counted and morphologically identified. Species and molecular forms of An. gambiae, ace-1R and Leu-Phe kdr mutations were determined using PCR techniques. The presence of the circumsporozoite protein of Plasmodium falciparum was determined using ELISA. Anopheles gambiae populations were dominated by the M form. However the S form occurred in relative important proportion towards the end of the rainy season with a maximum peak in October at 51%. Sporozoite rates were similar in both forms. The frequency of the Leu-Phe kdr mutation in the S form reached a fixation level while it is still spreading in the M form. Furthermore, the ace-1R mutation prevailed predominately in the S form and has just started spreading in the M form. The two mutations occurred concomitantly both in M and S populations. These results showed that the Vallée du Kou, a rice growing area formerly occupied mainly by M susceptible populations, is progressively colonized by S resistant populations living in sympatry with the former. As a result, the distribution pattern of insecticide resistance mutations shows the occurrence of both resistance mechanisms concomitantly in the same populations. The impact of multiple resistance mechanisms in M and S populations of An. gambiae on vector control measures against malaria transmission, such as insecticide-treated nets (ITNs) and indoor residual spraying (IRS), in this area is discussed.
18817819	O-Methylated flavonoids are biosynthesized by regioselective flavonoid O-methyltransferases (OMTs), which may account for the limited number of naturally occurring flavonoids in nature. It was previously shown that poplar POMT-7 regioselectively methylates the 7-hydroxyl group of flavones, whereas rice ROMT-9 regioselectively methylates the 3'-hydroxyl group of the substrate. We co-expressed both OMT genes (POMT-7 and ROMT-9) in E. coli and carried out biotransformation experiments of some flavonoids with the transformed E. coli strain. Contrast to the predicted regioselectivity of both POMT-7 and ROMT-9, unexpected methylation reaction products, i.e. 3',4'-O-methylated flavonoids, in addition to the predicted ones, were obtained with luteolin (5,7,3',4'-tetrahydroxyflavone) and quercetin (3,5,7,3',4'-pentahydroxyflavone) as substrates. Reactions using the 3'-O-methyl derivative of luteolin and quercetin by POMT-7 revealed that the enzyme has altered its regioselectivity from the 7- to the 4'-hydroxyl groups. These results are discussed in terms of molecular modeling of POMT-7 in relation to its methyl donor.
18818170	The Malaysian government recently introduced a ban on fast food advertisements targeting children on television. This study reports on data covering 6 months of television food advertising targeting children. Six out of seven of the Nation's commercial television networks participated (response rate = 85.7%). Based on reported timings of children's programmes, prime time significantly differed (p <0.05) between weekdays (mean = 1.89 +/- 0.18 hr) and weekends (mean = 4.61 +/- 0.33 hr). The increased trend during weekends, school vacation and Ramadhan was evident. Over the six-month period, the mean number of food advertisements appearing per month varied greatly between television stations (C = 1104; D = 643; F = 407; B = 327; A = 59; E = 47). Food advertising also increased the most in September (n = 3158), followed by July (n = 2770), August (n = 2431), October (n = 2291), November (n = 2245) and June (n = 2211). Content analysis of advertisements indicated snacks were the highest (34.5%), followed by dairy products (20.3%), sugars and candies (13.4%), biscuits (11.2%), fast food (6.7%), breakfast cereal (6.4%), beverages (4.1%), supplements (0.9%), rice (0.6%), noodles (0.5%), bread (0.3%), miscellaneous and processed foods (0.2%). Paradoxically, we found that the frequency of snack food advertised during children's prime time was 5 times more than fast foods. The sodium content (mean = 620 mg per 100g) of these snack foods was found to be highest.
18818319	Rice stripe virus (RSV) is the type member of the genus Tenuivirus. RSV has four single-stranded RNAs and causes severe disease in rice fields in different parts of China. To date, no reports have described how RSV spreads within host plants or the viral and/or host factor(s) required for tenuivirus movement. We investigated functions of six RSV-encoded proteins using trans-complementation experiments and biolistic bombardment. We demonstrate that NSvc4, encoded by RSV RNA4, supports the intercellular trafficking of a movement-deficient Potato virus X in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. We also determined that upon biolistic bombardment or agroinfiltration, NSvc4:enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) fusion proteins localize predominantly near or within the walls of onion and tobacco epidermal cells. In addition, the NSvc4:eGFP fusion protein can move from initially bombarded cells to neighboring cells in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Immunocytochemistry using tissue sections from RSV-infected rice leaves and an RSV NSvc4-specific antibody showed that the NSvc4 protein accumulated in walls of RSV-infected leaf cells. Gel retardation assays revealed that the NSvc4 protein interacts with single-stranded RNA in vitro, a common feature of many reported plant viral movement proteins (MPs). RSV NSvc4 failed to interact with the RSV nucleocapsid protein using yeast two-hybrid assays. Taken together, our data indicate that RSV NSvc4 is likely an MP of the virus. This is the first report describing a tenuivirus MP.
18818745	The health-promoting potential of 70% ethanolic extracts of 4 rice varieties fermented with Monascus ruber, Phellinus linteus, Cordyceps sinensis and Agaricus blazei was evaluated mainly focusing on their antioxidative and antimutagenic capacities based on the following parameters: phenolic compound and phytic acid content; inhibitory activity on lipid peroxidation; scavenging activity on DPPH radical; suppressing ability on mitomycin C-induced mutagenesis in E. coli cells; and protective effect on 4-nitroquinoline oxide-triggered DNA lesion in V79 hamster cells. The fermented rice extracts were superior in overall health-promoting parameters compared to the source material. The higher antimutagenic activity of the fermented rice extracts might be in part caused by a larger amount of antioxidant constituents such as phenolic compounds or phytic acid. Of the fungal species, Monascus ruber was found to impart a marked increase in both the antioxidative and antimutagenic abilities to the source material. The current study suggests a possibility that such fermented rice may contribute to the prevention of lifestyle-related diseases such as cancer through a daily intake of rice-based diets.
18818927	Tubby-like protein family has been identified in various multicellular organisms, indicating its fundamental functions in the organisms. However, the roles of plant tubby-like proteins are unknown. In this study, we have defined the tubby-like protein gene (OsTLP) family with 14 members in rice. Most of the OsTLPs harbor a tubby domain in their carboxyl terminus and an F-box domain in the amino terminus. The expression of all the OsTLPs was induced on infection of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, which causes bacterial blight, one of the most devastating diseases of rice worldwide. The maximal expression levels were observed at 2-8 h after infection for all the genes. Eight of the 14 OsTLPs were also responsive to wounding. All the OsTLPs showed differential expression in different tissues at different developmental stages. However, four pairs of the 14 OsTLPs, with each pair having high sequence similarity and distributing on the similar position of different chromosomes, showed similar expression pattern in different tissues, indicating their direct relationship in evolution. These results suggest that the OsTLP family is involved in host-pathogen interaction and it may be also associated with other physiological and developmental activities.
18818929	An OsWRKY11 gene, which encodes a transcription factor with the WRKY domain, was identified as one of the genes that was induced by both heat shock and drought stresses in seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa L.). To determine if overexpression of OsWRKY11 confers heat and drought tolerance, OsWRKY11 cDNA was fused to the promoter of HSP101 of rice and introduced into a rice cultivar Sasanishiki. Overexpression of OsWRKY11 was induced by heat treatment. After heat pretreatment, the transgenic lines showed significant heat and drought tolerance, as indicated by the slower leaf-wilting and less-impaired survival rate of green parts of plants. They also showed significant desiccation tolerance, as indicated by the slower water loss in detached leaves. Our results indicate that the OsWRKY11 gene plays a role in heat and drought stress response and tolerance, and might be useful for improvement of stress tolerance.
18819539	In order to estimate combining ability and gene action of a number of rice cultivars, a 5 x 5 half a diallel cross genetic design has been used. Parents and their hybrids have been evaluated in a randomized complete block design with 3 replicates for yield and 6 yield components in 2007 in Rice Research Station of Iran-Amol. Mean squares of genotypes for all traits were highly significant (p < 0.01). Significant mean squares of combining ability for all traits showed additive and non-additive effects in control of the related traits. Having nonsignificant MS(GCA)/MS(SCA) ratio for all traits but 1000-grain weight show higher importance of nonadditive effects in comparison with additive effects of controlling genes. High relative importance of specific combining ability indicated that all traits but 1000-grain weight are highly affected by impacts of specific combining ability. Generally, Dasht, Neda and Binam were the best parents for general combining ability and Binam x IR62871-175-1-10 and Mashhad Domsiah x Binam were the best hybrids for grain yield and its components.
18819589	The two wild rice species, Oryza rufipogon and O. nivara, which inhabit Thailand and the Lao PDR, are threatened with the loss of their natural habitats. The losses are primarily attributable to human intervention. Before this process advances, it is crucial to obtain basic information on the genetic variations of these species, so important knowledge about the current status of genetic variability. In this study, genetic variation within and between fourteen natural populations of the two populations from Thailand and Lao PDR was investigated at the DNA level by analysis of Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) mediate molecular markers. The results illustrated that wild rice from Thailand carried deletion (D) type ORF 100, but deletion and non-deletion type (ND) were found in wild rice samples from the Lao PDR. Five different plastid subtypes (7C7A, 6C8A, 7C6A, 6C7A and 9C7A) were found in the collected samples. Both polymorphism and pattern of distribution of p-SINE1-r2 in the two wild rice species were found among the populations. These data indicated that genetic variation existed in these natural populations of wild rice, suggesting that the strategies should be developed that are conducive to the conservation of wild rice in its natural environment.
18819590	This experiment was carried out on a grower's paddy field, Ban Som Hoeng Village, Kantarawichai, Mahasarakham Province, Northeast Thailand with the use of Roi-Et soil series (Oxic Paleustults) in the rainy season of the 2006 (May to November) to investigate effect of land preparation methods on rice plant heights, amounts of weeds and seed yields of Jasmine 105 aromatic paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.). The experiment was laid in a Randomized Complete Block Design (RCBD) with four replications. The results showed that plant height due to treatments was significantly highest for T3 but T3 was similar to T2, whilst T1 (control) was the least. Mean values of dry weight of narrow leaf type of weeds, in most cases, were significantly lowest with T3 followed by T2 and T3, particularly at the final two sampling periods. Broad leaf type of weeds was significantly highest with T2 throughout the experimental period, whilst T1 and T3, in most cases, were similar. Unfilled seeds were significantly highest with T3 but similar to T1 but T2 was the lowest, whilst filled seeds were significantly highest with T3, both T1 and T2 gave a similar weight. Numbers of panicles m(-2) were significantly highest with T3 but T3 was similar to T2, whilst T1 was the least. Seed size or 1000-seed weight was significantly highest with T3, whilst T2 and T1 were similar. Seed yield was highest and highly significant with T3 (1,136.25 kg ha(-1)) but T3 was similar to T2 (1,083.31 kg ha(-1)), whilst T1 was the lowest (487.50 kg ha(-1)). Land preparation method of T3 treatment may be recommended as the first choice, whilst T2 may be used as an alternative choice.
18819598	The survival of vegetative and sporulated cells of the Bacillus cultures on the seeds of the crop plants was tried in different combinations. One milliliter inoculum with 1 mL adhesive combination or sterile water showed better results followed by 1.5 mL inoculum with 0.5 mL adhesive or sterile water. The population of 5.5x10(5) cfu seed(-1) on black gram, 10.5x10(5) cfu seed(-1) on soybean and 6.5x10(5) cfu seed(-1) on maize were observed after 12 h of incubation in 1 mL sporulated inoculum mixed with 1 mL of rice gruel. The sporulated inoculum along with rice gruel favoured the adherence of the regenerated cells as rice gruel is rich in nutrient content.
18820056	We have developed a strategy for isolating cry genes from Bacillus thuringiensis. The key steps are the construction of a DNA library in an acrystalliferous B. thuringiensis host strain and screening for the formation of crystal through optical microscopy observation and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) analyses. By this method, three cry genes--cry55Aa1, cry6Aa2, and cry5Ba2--were cloned from rice-shaped crystals, producing B. thuringiensis YBT-1518, which consists of 54- and 45-kDa crystal proteins. cry55Aa1 encoded a 45-kDa protein, cry6Aa2 encoded a 54-kDa protein, and cry5Ba2 remained cryptic in strain YBT-1518, as shown by SDS-PAGE or microscopic observation. Proteins encoded by these three genes are all toxic to the root knot nematode Meloidogyne hapla. The two genes cry55Aa1 and cry6Aa2 were found to be located on a plasmid with a rather small size of 17.7 kb, designated pBMB0228.
18820292	RiceGeneThresher is a public online resource for mining genes underlying genome regions of interest or quantitative trait loci (QTL) in rice genome. It is a compendium of rice genomic resources consisting of genetic markers, genome annotation, expressed sequence tags (ESTs), protein domains, gene ontology, plant stress-responsive genes, metabolic pathways and prediction of protein-protein interactions. RiceGeneThresher system integrates these diverse data sources and provides powerful web-based applications, and flexible tools for delivering customized set of biological data on rice. Its system supports whole-genome gene mining for QTL by querying using DNA marker intervals or genomic loci. RiceGeneThresher provides biologically supported evidences that are essential for targeting groups or networks of genes involved in controlling traits underlying QTL. Users can use it to discover and to assign the most promising candidate genes in preparation for the further gene function validation analysis. The web-based application is freely available at http://rice.kps.ku.ac.th.
18820696	The closely related wild rice species Oryza rufipogon is considered the progenitor of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa). The transition from the characteristic plant architecture of wild rice to that of cultivated rice was one of the most important events in rice domestication; however, the molecular basis of this key domestication transition has not been elucidated. Here we show that the PROG1 gene controls aspects of wild-rice plant architecture, including tiller angle and number of tillers. The gene encodes a newly identified zinc-finger nuclear transcription factor with transcriptional activity and is mapped on chromosome 7. PROG1 is predominantly expressed in the axillary meristems, the site of tiller bud formation. Rice transformation experiments demonstrate that artificial selection of an amino acid substitution in the PROG1 protein during domestication led to the transition from the plant architecture of wild rice to that of domesticated rice.
18820698	Grain-filling, an important trait that contributes greatly to grain weight, is regulated by quantitative trait loci and is associated with crop domestication syndrome. However, the genes and underlying molecular mechanisms controlling crop grain-filling remain elusive. Here we report the isolation and functional analysis of the rice GIF1 (GRAIN INCOMPLETE FILLING 1) gene that encodes a cell-wall invertase required for carbon partitioning during early grain-filling. The cultivated GIF1 gene shows a restricted expression pattern during grain-filling compared to the wild rice allele, probably a result of accumulated mutations in the gene's regulatory sequence through domestication. Fine mapping with introgression lines revealed that the wild rice GIF1 is responsible for grain weight reduction. Ectopic expression of the cultivated GIF1 gene with the 35S or rice Waxy promoter resulted in smaller grains, whereas overexpression of GIF1 driven by its native promoter increased grain production. These findings, together with the domestication signature that we identified by comparing nucleotide diversity of the GIF1 loci between cultivated and wild rice, strongly suggest that GIF1 is a potential domestication gene and that such a domestication-selected gene can be used for further crop improvement.
18820699	The transition from the prostrate growth of ancestral wild rice (O. rufipogon Griff.) to the erect growth of Oryza sativa cultivars was one of the most critical events in rice domestication. This evolutionary step importantly improved plant architecture and increased grain yield. Here we find that prostrate growth of wild rice from Yuanjiang County in China is controlled by a semi-dominant gene, PROG1 (PROSTRATE GROWTH 1), on chromosome 7 that encodes a single Cys(2)-His(2) zinc-finger protein. prog1 variants identified in O. sativa disrupt the prog1 function and inactivate prog1 expression, leading to erect growth, greater grain number and higher grain yield in cultivated rice. Sequence comparison shows that 182 varieties of cultivated rice, including 87 indica and 95 japonica cultivars from 17 countries, carry identical mutations in the prog1 coding region that may have become fixed during rice domestication.
18820828	An isolate of a plant reovirus causing severe stunting and dark leaf symptoms on rice from Guangdong, China, was similar in virion morphology and serologically related to rice black-streaked dwarf virus (RBSDV). The electrophoretic profiles of genome segments of the two viruses in agarose or polyacrylamide gel were indistinguishable. The four genome segments of the new isolate corresponding to RBSDV S7-S10 were amplified by ligation RT-PCR and sequenced. The size and organization of each genome segment was very similar to its counterparts in RBSDV, maize rough dwarf virus (MRDV), and mal de Rio Cuarto virus (MRCV). Sequence identity was greatest to RBSDV and MRDV (ranging from about 60-85% depending on the protein), but identities were always much lower than those between RBSDV and MRDV. These comparisons and phylogenetic analyses suggested that the virus represents a new species in genus Fijivirus group 2, tentatively named Rice black-streaked dwarf virus-2.
18821422	The pesticide 3,4-dichloropropionanilide (propanil or, alternatively, DCPA) is a member of the acetanilide chemical family and is predominantly used for the control of weeds on commercial rice crops worldwide. This article was written to provide a brief review of the general toxicity of propanil followed by a detailed summary of the immunotoxicity studies that were performed to date in mammalian in vivo and in vitro models. Propanil affects the immune system at organ, cellular, and molecular levels. Studies demonstrated that it produces thymic atrophy and splenomegaly and decreases developing T- and B-cell populations in the thymus and bone marrow. Natural killer (NK) cells and macrophages are critical components of the innate immune system. NK cell cytotoxicity and the ability of macrophages to phagocytose, kill pathogenic bacteria, and produce inflammatory cytokines are suppressed by propanil. Propanil also affects the respiratory burst of macrophages, inhibiting reactive oxygen and nitrogen species production. Molecular mechanisms responsible for propanil's effects have begun to be elucidated and include alterations in nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB transcription factor activity and intracellular Ca(2+) signaling. Propanil exposure alters a number of functions of mature T lymphocytes and B lymphocytes that impacts the adaptive immune response. T-cell cytotoxic activity and cytokine production are major T-cell functions inhibited by propanil. The humoral antibody response to model antigens and intact bacteria is differentially affected after propanil exposure. How these changes in innate and adaptive immune responses impact the host response to bacterial challenge or vaccination has begun to be examined.
18822331	Cholera toxin B (CTB) subunit is an efficient mucosal carrier molecule for induction of oral tolerance to antigens and allergens. Here, T-cell epitopes of Cry j 1 and Cry j 2, major allergens in Japanese cedar pollen, were expressed in rice seed as a fusion protein with either CTB or rice glutelin as a control. Feeding mice with rice seed containing CTB-fused T-cell epitopes suppressed allergen-specific IgE responses and pollen-induced clinical symptoms at 50-fold lower doses of T-cell epitopes than required when using control seed. Our findings present a novel potential strategy for immunotherapy of type-I allergy.
18823313	Viruses are obligate intracellular symbionts. Plant viruses are often discovered and studied as pathogenic parasites that cause diseases in agricultural plants. However, here it is shown that viruses can extend survival of their hosts under conditions of abiotic stress that could benefit hosts if they subsequently recover and reproduce. Various plant species were inoculated with four different RNA viruses, Brome mosaic virus (BMV), Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), Tobacco mosaic virus and Tobacco rattle virus. The inoculated plants were stressed by withholding water. The onset of drought symptoms in virus-infected plants was compared with that in the plants that were inoculated with buffer (mock-inoculated plants). Metabolite profiling analysis was conducted and compared between mock-inoculated and virus-infected plants before and after being subjected to drought stress. In all cases, virus infection delayed the appearance of drought symptoms. Beet plants infected with CMV also exhibited significantly improved tolerance to freezing. Metabolite profiling analysis showed an increase in several osmoprotectants and antioxidants in BMV-infected rice and CMV-infected beet plants before and after drought stress. These results indicate that virus infection improves plant tolerance to abiotic stress, which correlates with increased osmoprotectant and antioxidant levels in infected plants.
18823453	Nicotianamine (NA), a metal chelator ubiquitous in higher plants, serves as an antihypertensive substance in humans. To engineer a novel antihypertensive rice that contains larger amounts of NA, the barley NA synthase gene, HvNAS1, was introduced into rice via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The introduced HvNAS1 was driven by pGluB-1, which induces strong gene expression in the endosperm of rice seeds. The NA content in transgenic rice seeds was up to fourfold greater than that in non-transgenic rice seeds. The Cre/loxP DNA excision (CLX) system was used to remove the selectable marker gene for antibiotic resistance. Furthermore, the transgenic rice was crossed with a cleistogamous mutant to prevent gene transfer via pollen dispersal. These two modifications may minimize public concern with regard to the use of this transgenic rice.
18824474	Tolerance of complete submergence is recognized in a small number of accessions of domesticated Asian rice (Oryza sativa) and can be conferred by the Sub1A-1 gene of the polygenic Submergence-1 (Sub1) locus. In all O. sativa varieties, the Sub1 locus encodes the ethylene-responsive factor (ERF) genes Sub1B and Sub1C. A third paralogous ERF gene, Sub1A, is limited to a subset of indica accessions. It is thought that O. sativa was domesticated from the gene pools of the wild perennial species O. rufipogon Griff. and/or the annual species O. nivara Sharma et Shastry. The aim of this study was to evaluate the orthologues of the Sub1 locus in the closest relatives of O. sativa to provide insight into the origin of the gene and allelic variation of the Sub1 locus. Orthologues of the Sub1 genes were isolated from O. rufipogon and O. nivara by use of oligonucleotide primers corresponding to the most highly conserved regions of the Sub1 genes of domesticated rice. The phylogenetic relatedness of Sub1 genes of O. sativa and its wild relatives was evaluated. Both O. rufipogon and O. nivara possess two Sub1 gene orthologues with strong sequence identity to the Sub1B and Sub1C alleles of cultivated rice. The phylogeny of the Sub1 genes of the domesticated and wild rice suggests that Sub1A arose from duplication of Sub1B. Variation in Sub1B alleles is correlated with the absence or presence of Sub1A. Together, the results indicate that genetic variation at the Sub1 locus is due to gene duplication and divergence that have occurred both prior to and after rice domestication.
18826428	Systemic acquired resistance (SAR), a natural disease response in plants, can be induced chemically. Salicylic acid (SA) acts as a key endogenous signaling molecule that mediates SAR in dicotyledonous plants. However, the role of SA in monocotyledonous plants has yet to be elucidated. In this study, the mode of action of the agrochemical protectant chemical probenazole was assessed by microarray-based determination of gene expression. Cloning and characterization of the most highly activated probenazole-responsive gene revealed that it encodes UDP-glucose:SA glucosyltransferase (OsSGT1), which catalyzes the conversion of free SA into SA O-beta-glucoside (SAG). We found that SAG accumulated in rice leaf tissue following treatment with probenazole or 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid. A putative OsSGT1 gene from the rice cultivar Akitakomachi was cloned and the gene product expressed in Escherichia coli was characterized, and the results suggested that probenazole-responsive OsSGT1 is involved in the production of SAG. Furthermore, RNAi-mediated silencing of the OsSGT1 gene significantly reduced the probenazole-dependent development of resistance against blast disease, further supporting the suggestion that OsSGT1 is a key mediator of development of chemically induced disease resistance. The OsSGT1 gene may contribute to the SA signaling mechanism by inducing up-regulation of SAG in rice plants.
18826431	During meiosis, chromosomes are sorted into homologous pairs as a preface to their intimate association via recombination and synapsis. However, little is known about the mechanism used to distinguish homologous chromosomes from other chromosomes present in the nucleus. Studies in wheat (Triticum aestivum) have shown that the Pairing homoeologous 1 (Ph1) locus is required to suppress interactions between genetically similar homoeologous chromosomes. Here we show that absence of Ph1 causes increased transcription of Asynapsis 1 (ASY1), a gene that encodes an axial-element-associated protein that is essential for synapsis and cross-over formation in Arabidopsis and rice. Localisation of ASY1 during meiosis is also affected by deletion of Ph1. In addition, transgenic wheat mutants with decreased activity of TaASY1 display reduced synapsis during prophase I and exhibit pairing between homoeologous chromosomes at metaphase I. These results suggest that ASY1 is required to promote interactions between homologous chromosomes in bread wheat, and that Ph1 has a gene regulatory role, which is consistent with its suggested genetic identity as a Cdk-like gene. Broader implications of this research suggest that we could use the Taasy1 mutants to assess their efficacy in alien chromatin introgression studies, as seen with the ph1b mutant.
18826586	Starch is of great importance to humans as a food and biomaterial, and the amount and structure of starch made in plants is determined in part by starch synthase (SS) activity. Five SS isoforms, SSI, II, III, IV and Granule Bound SSI, have been identified, each with a unique catalytic role in starch synthesis. The basic mode of action of SSs is known; however our knowledge of several aspects of SS enzymology at the structural and mechanistic level is incomplete. To gain a better understanding of the differences in SS sequences that underscore their specificity, the previously uncharacterised SSIVb from wheat was cloned and extensive bioinformatics analyses of this and other SSs sequences were done. The wheat SSIV cDNA is most similar to rice SSIVb with which it shows synteny and shares a similar exon-intron arrangement. The wheat SSIVb gene was preferentially expressed in leaf and was not regulated by a circadian clock. Phylogenetic analysis showed that in plants, SSIV is closely related to SSIII, while SSI, SSII and Granule Bound SSI clustered together and distinctions between the two groups can be made at the genetic level and included chromosomal location and intron conservation. Further, identified differences at the amino acid level in their glycosyltransferase domains, predicted secondary structures, global conformations and conserved residues might be indicative of intragroup functional associations. Based on bioinformatics analysis of the catalytic region of 36 SSs and 3 glycogen synthases (GSs), it is suggested that the valine residue in the highly conserved K-X-G-G-L motif in SSIII and SSIV may be a determining feature of primer specificity of these SSs as compared to GBSSI, SSI and SSII. In GBSSI, the Ile485 residue may partially explain that enzyme's unique catalytic features. The flexible 380s Loop in the starch catalytic domain may be important in defining the specificity of action for each different SS and the G-X-G in motif VI could define SSIV and SSIII action particularly.
18826644	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial blight disease, is a serious pathogen of rice. Here we describe a fluorescent marker system to study virulence and pathogenicity of X. oryzae pv. oryzae. A fluorescent X. oryzae pv. oryzae Philippine race 6 strain expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) (PXO99GFP) was generated using the gfp gene under the control of the neomycin promoter in the vector, pPneo-gfp. The PXO99GFPstrain displayed identical virulence and avirulence properties as the wild type control strain, PXO99. Using fluorescent microscopy, bacterial multiplication and colonization were directly observed in rice xylem vessels. Accurate and rapid determination of bacterial growth was assessed using fluoremetry and an Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSorbant Assay (ELISA). Our results indicate that the fluorescent marker system is useful for assessing bacterial infection and monitoring bacterial multiplication in planta.
18826656	Important developmental processes in both plants and animals are partly regulated by genes whose expression is modulated at the post-transcriptional level by processes such as RNA interference (RNAi). Dicers, Argonautes and RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RDR) form the core components that facilitate gene silencing and have been implicated in the initiation and maintenance of the trigger RNA molecules, central to process of RNAi. Investigations in eukaryotes have revealed that these proteins are encoded by variable number of genes with plants showing relatively higher number in each gene family. To date, no systematic expression profiling of these genes in any of the organisms has been reported. In this study, we provide a complete analysis of rice Dicer-like, Argonaute and RDR gene families including gene structure, genomic localization and phylogenetic relatedness among gene family members. We also present microarray-based expression profiling of these genes during 14 stages of reproductive and 5 stages of vegetative development and in response to cold, salt and dehydration stress. We have identified 8 Dicer-like (OsDCLs), 19 Argonaute (OsAGOs) and 5 RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (OsRDRs) genes in rice. Based on phylogeny, each of these genes families have been categorized into four subgroups. Although most of the genes express both in vegetative and reproductive organs, 2 OsDCLs, 14 OsAGOs and 3 OsRDRs were found to express specifically/preferentially during stages of reproductive development. Of these, 2 OsAGOs exhibited preferential up-regulation in seeds. One of the Argonautes (OsAGO2) also showed specific up-regulation in response to cold, salt and dehydration stress. This investigation has identified 23 rice genes belonging to DCL, Argonaute and RDR gene families that could potentially be involved in reproductive development-specific gene regulatory mechanisms. These data provide an insight into probable domains of activity of these genes and a basis for further, more detailed investigations aimed at understanding the contribution of individual components of RNA silencing machinery during reproductive phase of plant development.
18827062	Intra-genomic variation between housekeeping and tissue-specific genes has always been a study of interest in higher eukaryotes. To-date, however, no such investigation has been done in plants. Availability of whole genome expression data for both rice and Arabidopsis has made it possible to examine the evolutionary forces in shaping codon usage pattern in both housekeeping and tissue-specific genes in plants. In the present work, we have taken 4065 rice-Arabidopsis homologous gene pairs to study evolutionary forces responsible for codon usage divergence between housekeeping and tissue-specific genes. In both rice and Arabidopsis, it is mutational bias that regulates error minimization in highly expressed genes of both housekeeping and tissue-specific genes. Our results show that, in comparison to tissue-specific genes, housekeeping genes are under strong selective constraint in plants. However, in tissue-specific genes, lowly expressed genes are under stronger selective constraint compared with highly expressed genes. We demonstrated that constraint acting on mRNA secondary structure is responsible for modulating codon usage variations in rice tissue-specific genes. Thus, different evolutionary forces must underline the evolution of synonymous codon usage of highly expressed genes of housekeeping and tissue-specific genes in rice and Arabidopsis.
18827181	The rice (Oryza sativa) DELLA protein SLR1 acts as a repressor of gibberellin (GA) signaling. GA perception by GID1 causes SLR1 protein degradation involving the F-box protein GID2; this triggers GA-associated responses such as shoot elongation and seed germination. In GA-insensitive and GA biosynthesis mutants, SLENDER RICE1 (SLR1) accumulates to high levels, and the severity of dwarfism is usually correlated with the level of SLR1 accumulation. An exception is the GA-insensitive F-box mutant gid2, which shows milder dwarfism than mutants such as gid1 and cps even though it accumulates higher levels of SLR1. The level of SLR1 protein in gid2 was decreased by loss of GID1 function or treatment with a GA biosynthesis inhibitor, and dwarfism was enhanced. Conversely, overproduction of GID1 or treatment with GA(3) increased the SLR1 level in gid2 and reduced dwarfism. These results indicate that derepression of SLR1 repressive activity can be accomplished by GA and GID1 alone and does not require F-box (GID2) function. Evidence for GA signaling without GID2 was also provided by the expression behavior of GA-regulated genes such as GA-20oxidase1, GID1, and SLR1 in the gid2 mutant. Based on these observations, we propose a model for the release of GA suppression that does not require DELLA protein degradation.
18827837	Oryza rufipogon Griff. (common wild rice; CWR) is the ancestor of Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.). Investigation of the genetic structure and diversity of CWR in China will provide information about the origin of cultivated rice and the grain quality and yield. In this study, we used 36 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers to assay 889 accessions, which were highly representative of whole germplasm in China. The analysis revealed a hierarchical genetic structure within CWR. First, CWR has diverged into two ecotypic populations, a south subtropical population (SSP) and a middle subtropical population (MSP), probably owing to natural selection by the different climates. The distribution of specific alleles and haplotypes indicated that Chinese CWR had both indica-like and japonica-like variations; the SSP was an indica-like type, whereas the MSP was more japonica-like. The SSP and MSP further diverged into five (HN, GD-GX1, GX2, FJ and YN) and two (JX-HuN1 and HuN2) geographical populations, respectively. The genetic data suggest the isolation by distance, although water systems also appear to play an important role in the formation of homogenous populations, and occasionally landscape was also involved. The population GD-GX1, which grew widely in Guangdong and Guangxi provinces, was the largest geographical population in China. It had a high level of genetic diversity (GD) and the closest genetic relationship with other inferred populations. The population HN, with the smallest SSR molecular weights and the highest level of GD, may be the most ancestral population.
18828982
18830164	A unicellular microalga, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, was isolated from rice paddy-field soil and water samples and used in the biotransformation of hydrocortisone (1). This strain has not been previously tested for steroid bioconversion. Fermentation was carried out in BG-11 medium supplemented with 0.05% substrate at 25 degrees C for 14 days of incubation. The products obtained were chromatographically purified and characterized using spectroscopic methods. 11b,17 beta-Dihydroxyandrost-4-en-3-one (2), 11 beta-hydroxyandrost-4-en-3,17-dione (3), 11 beta,17 alpha,20 beta,21-tetrahydroxypregn-4-en-3-one (4) and prednisolone (5) were the main products of the bioconversion. The observed bioreaction features were the side chain degradation of the substrate to give compounds 2 and 3 and the 20-ketone reduction and 1,2-dehydrogenation affording compounds 4 and 5, respectively. A time course study showed the accumulation of product 2 from the second day of the fermentation and of compounds 3, 4 and 5 from the third day. All the metabolites reached their maximum concentration in seven days. Microalgal 18S rRNA gene was also amplified by PCR. PCR products were sequenced to confirm their authenticity as 18S rRNA gene of microalgae. The result of PCR blasted with other sequenced microalgae in NCBI showed 100% homology to the 18S small subunit rRNA of two Chlamydomonas reinhardtii spp.
18830195	Some 13CO2 breath tests require prolonged breath sampling. The study aimed to validate a meal which could be served to subjects without interference with the measured breath 13CO2 profile. Eight healthy volunteers were examined on three separate days. On two occasions they took equicaloric meals of 320 kcal composed of foodstuffs known to be poor in 13CO: cooked rice (R) or a wheat bread sandwich with butter and ham (S). On the control day they fasted. Samples of expiratory air were taken every 15 min for 6 hours. The 13CO2 concentration in the samples was measured by isotope ratio mass spectrometry. Statistical analysis involved repeated measures analysis of variance (RANOVA). The intra-subject variability of breath 13CO2 concentration was remarkably low on the three study days, as reflected by mean coefficients of variation (CV) of 0.90+/-0.32%, 0.79+/-0.19%, and 0.80+/-0.34% for the control, meal S, and meal R days, respectively (RANOVA: F2;14=0.296, p=0.75). RANOVA indicated a strong effect of a meal on inter-subject variability of breath 13CO2 concentration (F2;46=390.62 p<0.000001). Post hoc comparisons revealed a mean CV of 1.64+/-0.37% on the control day, 3.62+/-0.18% after ingestion of S, and 3.81+/-0.24% after meal R (both p=0.000128 vs. the control). Nevertheless, with neither test meal did RANOVA disclose at any time a statistically significant deviation in breath 13CO2 concentration from the basal fasted value. Both the test meals fulfilled the requirement of neutrality as concerns a null effect on the breath 13CO2 profile.
18830707	The mycosporine-like amino acid (MAA) profile of a rice-field cyanobacterium, Anabaena doliolum, was studied under PAR and PAR + UVR conditions. The high-performance liquid chromatographic analysis of water-soluble compounds reveals the biosynthesis of three MAAs, mycosporine-glycine (lambda (max) = 310 nm), porphyra-334 (lambda (max) = 334 nm) and shinorine (lambda (max) = 334 nm), with retention times of 4.1, 3.5 and 2.3 min, respectively. This is the first report for the occurrence of mycosporine-glycine and porphyra-334 in addition to shinorine in Anabaena strains studied so far. The results indicate that mycosporine-glycine (monosubstituted) acts as a precursor for the biosynthesis of the bisubstituted MAAs shinorine and porphyra-334. Mycosporine-glycine was under constitutive control while porphyra-334 and shinorine were induced by UV-B radiation, indicating the involvement of UV-regulated enzymes in the biotransformation of MAAs. It seems that A. doliolum is able to protect its cell machinery from UVR by synthesizing a complex set of MAAs and thus is able to survive successfully during the summer in its natural brightly lit habitats.
18830730	A variety of raw materials have been used in fermentation process. This study shows the use of rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate, as the only source of nutrient, to produce high added-value products. In the present work, the activity of the enzymes xylose reductase (XR); xylitol dehydrogenase (XD); and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) during cultivation of Candida guilliermondii on rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate was measured and correlated with xylitol production under different pH values (around 4.5 and 7.5) and initial xylose concentration (around 30 and 70 g l(-1)). Independent of the pH value and xylose concentration evaluated, the title of XD remained constant. On the other hand, the volumetric activity of G6PD increased whereas the level of XR decreased when the initial xylose concentration was increased from 30 to 70 g l(-1). The highest values of xylitol productivity (Q (P) approximately 0.40 g l(-1)) and yield factor (Y (P/S) approximately 0.60 g g(-1)) were reached at highest G6PD/XR ratio and lowest XR/XD ratio. These results suggest that NADPH concentrations influence the formation of xylitol more than the activity ratios of the enzymes XR and XD. Thus, an optimal rate between G6PD and XR must be reached in order to optimize the xylitol production.
18830797	Over the past 6 years, we have generated about 50,000 individual transgenic rice plants by an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation approach with the pER38 activation tagging vector. The vector contains tandemly arranged double 35S enhancers next to the right border of T-DNA. Expression analysis by reverse transcription-PCR indicates that the activation efficiency is high if the genes are located within 7 kb of the inserted double 35S enhancers. Comparative field phenotyping of part of the activation tagging and enhancer trapping populations in two generations (6,000 and 6,400 lines, respectively, in the T(0) generation, and 36,000 and 32,000 lines, respectively, in the T(1) generation) identified about four hundred dominant mutants. Characterization of a dominant mutant with a large leaf angle (M107) suggests that this mutant phenotype is caused by enhanced expression of CYP724B1/D11. The activation tagging pool described in this paper is a valuable alternative tool for functional analysis of the rice genome.
18830803	As a first step towards manufacturing functional anti-K99 single chain variable antibody fragment (scFv) in a plant system to prevent colibacillosis in neonatal calves, we investigated the feasibility of producing these antibodies in rice plants. Two scFv constructs, with or without the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) targeting KDEL sequence, were introduced into rice for either ER-retention of the recombinant antibody or its secretion. In agreement with several other published reports, extremely low-levels of scFv were produced in rice plants transformed with the construct lacking the ER-targeting sequence. Constructs containing the KDEL sequence resulted in significantly higher levels of the antibody in rice leaves. Although scFv transcripts were found in all three rice tissues analyzed, scFv protein was detected only in the leaf and embryo tissues and not in the endosperm portion of the seed. Functionality of the rice-produced scFv was tested in two in vitro assays, i.e., inhibition of K99-induced horse red blood cell agglutination and inhibition of the attachment of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) to calf enterocytes. Rice-scFv was found to be functionally equivalent to anti-K99 monoclonal antibody (mAb) in both the assays. The results obtained in this investigation provide valuable information and in combination with other studies of this kind, will be helpful in devising strategies to improve production of useful recombinant proteins in the seeds.
18831036	SUMO E3 ligase of the Siz/PIAS family that promotes sumoylation of target proteins contains SAP motif in its N-terminal region. The SAP motif with a consensus sequence of 35 residues was first proposed to be as a new DNA binding motif found in diverse nuclear proteins involved in chromosomal organization. We have determined solution structures of the SAP domains of SUMO ligases Siz1 from yeast and rice by NMR spectroscopy, showing that the structure of the SAP domain (residues 2-105) of rice Siz1 is a four-helix bundle with an up-down-extended loop-down-up topology, whereas the SAP domain (residues 1-111) of yeast Siz1 is comprised of five helices where the fifth helix alpha5 causes a significant change in the alignment of the four-helix bundle characteristic to the SAP domains of the Siz/PIAS family. We have also demonstrated that both SAP domains have binding ability to an A/T-rich DNA, but that binding affinity of yeast Siz1 SAP is at least by an order of magnitude higher than that of rice Siz1 SAP. Our NMR titration experiments clearly showed that yeast Siz1 SAP uses alpha2-helix for DNA binding more effectively than rice Siz1 SAP, which would result from the dislocation of this helix due to the existence of the extra helix alpha5. In addition, based on the structures of the SAP domains determined here and registered in Protein Data Bank, general features of structures of the SAP domains are discussed in conjunction with equivocal nature of their DNA binding.
18831334	To understand the mechanism by which light regulates a gibberellin (GA)-insensitive gene in DongJinByeo (Oryza sativa cv DongJin), both green and etiolated DongJinByeo seedlings were submerged in water and treated with GA. Total RNA from the seedlings was isolated and hybridized with cDNA of a GA-insensitive gene homolog. The amount of transcript for the GA-insensitive gene homolog was higher in green seedlings than in etiolated seedlings in the absence of GA. However upon the addition of GA, greater accumulations of the gene transcript occurred in etiolated seedlings than in green seedlings. This result indicates the possibility that the expression of the GA-insensitive gene homolog transcript may be inhibited by light in the presence of GA. Light seems to regulate multilaterally the accumulation of the transcript of the GA-insensitive gene homolog in DongJinByeo (Oryza sativa cv DongJin).
18831388	The effluent from a Lucknow- based distillery (Mohan Meakin Distillery) was analyzed for physico-chemical and biological parameters of pollution and concentration of potentially toxic heavy metals (Cd, Cr, Ni and Zn) and the effect of the distillery effluent, as such and on 50% dilution with tap water was studied on seed germination and seedling growth of maize (Zea mays L.) and rice (Oryza sativa L.). The effluent was wine red in colour and highly acidic (pH approximately 55) and possessed decaying alcoholic smell. The effluent contained high values of different pollution parameters, particularly total solids, 3450 mgl(-1) (soluble plus suspended solids), alkalinity 1500 mgl(-1), biological oxygen demand (BOD, 1649 mgl(-1)) and chemical oxygen demand (COD, 2036 mgl(-1)). It had very low values of dissolved oxygen (DO, 0.34 mgl(-1)). The heavy metals (Cd, Cr, Ni and Zn) content, particularly the nickel concentration (0.029 mg l(-1)) was high. Use of the distillery effluent, even on 1:1 dilution with tap water inhibited germination and early seedling growth of maize and rice. In both maize and rice, more so in the former germination % of seeds, length of radicle and plumule and the fresh and dry weight of the seedlings were significantly reduced. The emerging leaves of the seedlings also developed visible effects of toxicity some of which resembled the symptoms of nickel toxicity. Our observations suggest that the effluent, as discharged from the distillery carry a heavy load of pollutants. Its discharge into the river Gomti poses a potential threat to the aquatic life, perticularly during the summer months when the water flow in the river is drastically reduced. The distillery effluentis also harmful for irrigating crops grown along the drain carrying it.
18831733	The Yusho poisoning incident, which was caused by rice bran oil contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polychlorinated quarterphenyls (PCQs) and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) generated by heat denaturation of PCB, occurred in 1968 in western Japan. Annual physical, dermatological, dental, ophthalmological and laboratory examinations were conducted for Yusho patients after the incident. From 2001, blood levels of individual PCDF congeners were also measured. The blood levels of 2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran (2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF), PCBs and PCQs in Yusho patients were found to be significantly higher than those of the general population. We investigated the relationships between blood concentrations of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, PCBs and PCQs in Yusho patients and the items measured in the annual medical examination. Medical and laboratory examination data from 501 Yusho patients enrolled in the study from 2001 to 2004 were analyzed. The relationships between blood 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, PCB and PCQ concentrations and medical/laboratory examination data were investigated using principal components and logistic regression analyses. Serum Concentrations of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, PCBs and PCQs in blood tended to correlate with either acneform eruptions, black comedones, cutaneous and mucosal pigmentation, and hypersecretion of meibomian glands as well as general fatigue, headaches, cough/sputum, abdominal pain, arthralgia, increased blood sugar, increased serum gamma-GTP and decreased total bilirubin. The majority of these signs and symptoms are included in the diagnostic criteria for Yusho. After Yusho patients had suffered chronic exposure to these chlorinated compounds for more than 35 years, the serum concentration of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF in blood was significantly related to arthralgia and decreased albumin/globulin (A/G) ratio; the serum concentration of PCBs was significantly related to ophthalmologic symptoms; and the serum concentration of PCQ to increased total cholesterol. These findings suggest that the co-contaminants may affect other functions than those originally associated with Yusho.
18831738	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) posttranscriptionally down-regulate gene expression by binding target mRNAs. Analysis of the evolution of miRNA binding sites is helpful in understanding the co-evolution between miRNAs and their targets. To understand this process in plants a comparative analysis of miRNA-targeted duplicated gene pairs derived from a well-documented whole genome duplication (WGD) event in combination with a population genetics study of six experimentally validated miRNA binding sites in rice (O. sativa) was carried out. Of the 1,331 pairs of duplicate genes from the WGD, 41 genes (29 pairs) were computationally predicted to be miRNA targets. Sequence substitution analysis indicated that the synonymous substitution rate was significantly lower in the miRNA binding sites than their 5' and 3' flanking regions. Of the 29 duplicated gene pairs, 17 have only one paralog been targeted by a miRNA. This could be due to either gain of a miRNA binding site after the WGD or because one of the duplicated genes has escaped from being a miRNA target after the WGD (loss of miRNA binding site). These possibilities were distinguished by separating miRNAs conserved in both dicots and monocot plants from rice-specific miRNAs and by phylogenetic analysis of miRNA target gene families. The gain/loss rate of miRNA binding sites was estimated to be 3.0 x 10(-9) gain/loss per year. Most (70.6%) of the gains/losses were due to nucleotide mutation. By analysis of cultivated (O. sativa; n = 30) and wild (O. rufipogon; n = 15) rice populations, no segregating site was observed in six miRNA binding sites whereas 0.12-0.20 SNPs per 21-nt or 1.53-1.80 x 10(-3) of the average pairwise nucleotide diversity (pi) were found in their flanking regions. Both molecular evolution and population genetics support the hypothesis that conservation of miRNA binding sites is maintained by purifying selection through elimination of deleterious alleles. Nucleotide mutations play a major role in the gain/loss of miRNA binding sites during evolution.
18832187	Members of the ERF transcription factor family play important roles in regulating gene expression in response to biotic and abiotic stresses. In soybean (Glycine max L.), however, only a few ERF genes have been studied so far. In this study, 98 unigenes that contained a complete AP2/ERF domain were identified from 63,676 unique sequences in the DFCI Soybean Gene Index database. The phylogeny, gene structures, and putative conserved motifs in soybean ERF proteins were analysed, and compared with those of Arabidopsis and rice. The members of the soybean ERF family were divided into 12 subgroups, similar to the case for Arabidopsis. AP2/ERF domains were conserved among soybean, Arabidopsis, and rice. Outside the AP2/ERF domain, many soybean-specific conserved motifs were detected. Expression analysis showed that nine unigenes belonging to six ERF family subgroups were induced by both biotic/abiotic stresses and hormone treatment, suggesting that they were involved in cross-talk between biotic and abiotic stress-responsive signalling pathways. Overexpression of two full-length genes from two different subgroups enhanced the tolerances to drought, salt stresses, and/or pathogen infection of the tobacco plants. These results will be useful for elucidating ERF gene-associated stress response signalling pathways in soybean.
18833992	Starch is an important energy source and can represent more than 60% of the calories of the human diet. The starch fraction resistant to enzymatic digestion is called resistant starch. When rice is parboiled, the starch retrogrades with the formation of type 3-resistant starch (retrograded), which presents beneficial effects on the health, since it acts as a prebiotic. In the present study three types of rice were selected, with high, medium and low amylose contents, with the objective of evaluating the effects of conventional and parboiled rice on glycemia in Wistar rats. The samples with high and medium amylose contents were soaked for 6 h at 65 degrees C, and the low amylose sample for 7 h at 70 degrees C. The samples were subsequently autoclaved for 10 minutes at 0.7kgf x cm(-2). Six male Wistar rats were used for each treatment. Seven experimental diets were elaborated, formulated according to AIN-93M, the control diet and diets substituting the carbohydrate source with conventional or parboiled rice. Resistant starch was determined in the diets and glycemia monitored using glucose paper strips, the sample being blood obtained from the distal part of the rat's tail. For the glycemic curve, glycemia was measured in the fasting state and during 90 minutes post-prandial. The results indicated there were no significant differences between the diets formulated with high, medium and low amylose, parboiled or conventionally prepared, with respect to fasting or post-prandial glycemia in Wistar rats.
18834606	Burkholderia glumae, a bacterial pathogen on rice, produced compounds in liquid culture that, in agar diffusion assays, gave strong inhibitory action against Erwinia amylovora, the bacterium responsible for fire blight disease of apple and pear trees. Products were isolated from culture medium by cation exchange and then purified by bioassay-guided chromatographic methods. Two major products were obtained, one of which was not active when fully purified. Each product showed a single ninhydrin-staining spot on TLC and a single HPLC peak. The non-active product was deduced from NMR, MS, and chemical data, to be the tripeptide L-alanyl-L-homoserinyl-L-aspartate. The NMR data for the active product demonstrated that it contained the same tripeptide, but functionalised at the beta-carboxyl of the C-terminal aspartate, by a moiety that provided an additional 98 mass units to the parent tripeptide. Various data led to the interpretation that this moiety was a highly unusual oxygenated pyrazole structure, and thus the bioactive product was deduced to be 3-[L-alanyl-L-homoserinyl-L-aspartyl-beta-carboxy]-4-hydroxy-5-oxopyrazole. This compound was found to inhibit the growth of a number of different bacterial species.
18835840	Microarray analysis of tiny amounts of RNA extracted from plant section samples prepared by laser microdissection (LM) can provide high-quality information on gene expression in specified plant cells at various stages of development. Having joined the LM-microarray analysis project, we utilized such genome-wide gene expression data from developing rice pollen cells to identify candidates for cis-regulatory elements for specific gene expression in these cells. We first found a few clusters of gene expression patterns based on the data from LM-microarrays. On one gene cluster in which the members were specifically expressed at the bicellular and mature pollen mitotic stages, we identified gene cluster fingerprints (GCFs), each of which consists of a short nucleotide representing the gene cluster. We expected that these GCFs would contain cis-regulatory elements for stage- and tissue-specific gene expression, and we further identified groups of GCFs with common core sequences. Some criteria, such as frequency of occurrence in the gene cluster in contrast to the total tested gene set, flanking sequence preference and distribution of combined GCF sets in the gene regions, allowed us to limit candidates for cis-regulatory sequences for specific gene expression in rice pollen cells to at least 20 sets of combined GCFs. This approach should provide a general purpose algorithm for identifying short nucleotides associated with specific gene expression.
18835944	To systematically tabulate published and unpublished sources of reliable glycemic index (GI) values. A literature search identified 205 articles published between 1981 and 2007. Unpublished data were also included where the data quality could be verified. The data were separated into two lists: the first representing more precise data derived from testing healthy subjects and the second primarily from individuals with impaired glucose metabolism. The tables, which are available in the online-only appendix, list the GI of over 2,480 individual food items. Dairy products, legumes, and fruits were found to have a low GI. Breads, breakfast cereals, and rice, including whole grain, were available in both high and low GI versions. The correlation coefficient for 20 staple foods tested in both healthy and diabetic subjects was r = 0.94 (P < 0.001). These tables improve the quality and quantity of GI data available for research and clinical practice.
18836531	Studies of gene function are often hampered by gene-redundancy, especially in organisms with large genomes such as rice (Oryza sativa). We present an approach for using transcriptomics data to focus functional studies and address redundancy. To this end, we have constructed and validated an inexpensive and publicly available rice oligonucleotide near-whole genome array, called the rice NSF45K array. We generated expression profiles for light- vs. dark-grown rice leaf tissue and validated the biological significance of the data by analyzing sources of variation and confirming expression trends with reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. We examined trends in the data by evaluating enrichment of gene ontology terms at multiple false discovery rate thresholds. To compare data generated with the NSF45K array with published results, we developed publicly available, web-based tools (www.ricearray.org). The Oligo and EST Anatomy Viewer enables visualization of EST-based expression profiling data for all genes on the array. The Rice Multi-platform Microarray Search Tool facilitates comparison of gene expression profiles across multiple rice microarray platforms. Finally, we incorporated gene expression and biochemical pathway data to reduce the number of candidate gene products putatively participating in the eight steps of the photorespiration pathway from 52 to 10, based on expression levels of putatively functionally redundant genes. We confirmed the efficacy of this method to cope with redundancy by correctly predicting participation in photorespiration of a gene with five paralogs. Applying these methods will accelerate rice functional genomics.
18836753	Early events during meiotic prophase I underpin not only viability but the variation of a species from generation to generation. Understanding and manipulating processes such as chromosome pairing and recombination are integral for improving plant breeding. This study uses comparative genetics, quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis and a transcriptomics-based approach to identify genes that might have a role in genome-wide recombination control. Comparative genetics and the analysis of the yeast and Arabidopsis sequenced genomes has allowed the identification of early meiotic candidates that are conserved in wheat, rice and barley. Secondly, scoring recombination frequency as a phenotype for QTL analysis across wheat, rice and barley mapping populations has enabled us to identify genomic regions and candidate genes that could be involved in genome-wide recombination. Transcriptome data for candidate genes indicate that they are expressed in meiotic tissues. Candidates identified included a non-annotated expressed protein, a DNA topoisomerase 2-like candidate, RecG, RuvB and RAD54 homologues.
18837106	Magnaporthe oryzae has been used as a primary model organism for investigating fungus-plant interaction. Many researches focused on molecular mechanisms of appressorium formation to restrain this fungal pathogen. Autophagy is a very high conserved process in eukaryotic cells. Recently, autophagy has been considered as a key process in development and differentiation in M. oryzae. In this report, we present and discuss the current state of our knowledge on gene expression in appressorium formation and the progress in autophagy of rice blast fungi.
18837109	Appressorium formation is an important event in establishing a successful interaction between the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae, and its host plant, rice. An understanding of molecular events occurring in appressorium differentiation will give new strategies to control rice blast. A quick and reliable method to extract total RNA from appressorium is essential for studying gene expression during appressorium formation and its mechanism. We found that duplicate film is an efficient substratum for appressorium formation, even when inoculated with high density conidia. When inoculated with conidia at 1x10(6) ml(-1), the percentages of conidium germination and appressorium formation were (97.98+/-0.67)% and (97.88+/-0.45)%, respectively. We applied Trizol before appressorium collection for total RNA isolation, and as much as 113.6 microg total RNA was isolated from the mature appressoria at 24 h after inoculation. Functional analysis of two genes, MNH6 and MgATG1, isolated from the cDNA subtractive library, revealed that the quantity of RNA was good enough to construct a cDNA (complementary DNA) library or a cDNA subtractive library. This method may be also applicable for the appressorium RNA isolation of other pathogenic fungi in which conidia differentiate into appressoria in the early stages of host infection.
18837336	To screen and isolate secondary metabolite biosynthesis-related gene for establishing the foundation of functional gene research, we construct a cDNA library of Glycyrrhiza uralensis. Total RNA was isolated from G. uralensis using the method of lithium chloride sedimentation. Double strand cDNA was joined into pBlueScript II vector. The number of clones, recombinant rate and length of insert fragments were determined. The capacity of the original library was 1.15 x 10(7) with a recombinant rate of 98.2% and the inserted cDNA fragments ranged from 0.5 to 4.8 kb. 126 ESTs through random sequencing were obtained. The most homological proteins came from leguminous plants, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, and so on. Most of the proteins were related to genes linking cell matabolism, resistance, growth retardation and dormancy. The library has enough capacity, high recombinant rate and long insert fragment for the further study.
18837364	To evaluate the antibacterial activity of lactic acid bacteria community SFC-2 in fermented crop straw. Total 13 isolates were obtained from spontaneous fermented rice straw by plating, paper diffusion and Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis. All these strains were used to determine the antibacterial activity of SFC-2. (1) Phylogenetic analysis of the 13 strains based on 16S rDNA gene sequence data indicated that 9 strains belong to Enterobacter cloacae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Bacillus cereus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Citrobacterfreundii, Klebsiella terrigena and Citrobacter sp., which were all common pathogens or opportunistic pathogens. (2) Indicating bacteria selected from the pathogens were used to detect antibacterial activity of SFC-2 cell-free culture supernatant. The results showed that: SFC-2 community had stronger antibacterial activity than isolated strains from SFC-2 community or man-made communities against indicating bacteria. (3) Antibacterial activities of seven different cell-free culture supernatants, which were extracted at intervals from the culture of SFC-2 community during 14-48 hours, were no obvious difference, but the content of organic acids were obvious differences during 14-48 hours; the antibacterial substances were stable after heating and sensitive partly to protease K.
18838312	A method was developed for the simultaneous determination of 15 phenylurea herbicides (fenuron, tebuthiuron, metoxuron, monuron, chlortoluron, fluometuron, isoproturon, diuron, monolinuron, metobromuron, buturon, siduron, linuron, chlorbromuron, and neburon) in rice and corn samples by HPLC with fluorescence detection combined with UV decomposition and post-column derivatization. After extraction with acetonitrile and evaporation, the herbicides were redissolved in n-hexane and purified on a Florisil solid-phase extraction column. HPLC separation was carried out on a C18 column with water-acetonitrile gradient elution. UV decomposition was carried out under a 254-nm UV lamp. The method was evaluated in terms of the limits of detection and quantification. The linearity was satisfactory, with a correlation coefficient of >0.9980. Precision and recovery studies were evaluated at three concentration levels for each matrix. Good precision was obtained, with relative standard deviation in the range 1.5-9.6% for spiked rice samples and 0.9-9.9% for spiked corn samples. Recovery (n=6) ranged between 75.3% and 104.3% for rice and between 75.0% and 105.1% for corn. The intra-day precision (n=5) for the 15 herbicides in rice and corn samples spiked at an intermediate level was between 1.5% and 7.1%, and the inter-day precision over 10 days (n=10) was between 6.4% and 15.6%.
18838736
18838786	There are technical difficulties in obtaining intact sections of cereal grains in which mature cells and their subcellular structures are well preserved. Here we describe a simple method for sectioning hard mature rice grains. It makes possible accurate localization of storage proteins in high-quality histological sections of rice endosperm.
18838832	Neutral glycerides with micronutrients like sterols, tocopherols and squalene may be prepared from cheap raw material like rice bran oil fatty acid distillate (RBO FAD). RBO FAD is an important byproduct of vegetable oil refining industries in the physical refining process. Glycerides like triacylglycerols (TAG), diacylglycerols (DAG) and monoacylglycerols (MAG) containing significant amounts of unsaponifiable matter like sterols, tocopherols and hydrocarbons (mainly squalene) may certainly be considered as novel functional food ingredients. Fatty acids present in RBO FAD were esterified with glycerol of varying amount (1:0.33, 1:0.5, 1:1 and 1:1.5 of FAD : glycerol ratio) for 8 h using non-specific enzyme NS 40013 (Candida antartica). After esterification the product mixture containing mono, di- and triglycerides was purified by molecular distillation to remove excess free fatty acids and also other volatile undesirable components. The purified product containing sterols, tocopherols and squalene can be utilized in various food formulations.
18839535	A study of contaminative status and relative exposure estimation was performed to get the furan intake in the Beijing infant food. 4 separate items bought in the Beijing market were analyzed and relative exposure was calculated. The following were mean levels of furan of each items: infant formula milk powder 17.44 microg/kg, infant formula rice powder 16.41 microg/kg, commercial baby food in glass jars 25.73 microg/kg, fruit juices undetectable, which leads exposure of different ages from 1.533 to 5.985 microg/d, 0.341-0.712 microg/(kg bw x d). With the highest concentration of each type of each stage, the exposure of different ages was 0.521-2.474 microg/(kg bw x d). The survey leads to the conclusion that infant food sold in Beijing was contaminated with high concentration of furan, which leads to high exposure of infant or baby.
18839555	To investigate the effect of different urea incorporation amount in different soils on N2O emission, a pot experiment was carried in 2002-2003. Four treatments were designed as the control (without urea incorporation); low N fertilizer level (334 kg/hm2); middle N fertilizer level (670 kg/hm); high N fertilizer level (1004 kg/hm2). In rice growing season, compared to control, the increment of N2O emission accumulation flux of each soil has no obviously differences among three N fertilizer levels. Contrarily, in wheat-planted soils, there are remarkably differences among three N fertilizer levels. Without urea incorporation, there are no differences among N2O accumulation emission flux of three soils. During the rice growing season, N2O accumulation emission flux of F soil (jiangsu province, lishui), G soil (jiangsu province, lianshui) and H soil (jiangsu province, agriculture academy) are 168, 127 and 146 mg/m2, respectively. N2O accumulation emission flux of F soil, G soil and H soil is 134, 124 and 168 mg/m2, respectively, during wheat growing season. Incorporation of urea into different soils yielded different influence on N2O emission. For example, at middle-N fertilizer, N2O accumulation emission flux from F soil, G soil and H soil is 976, 744 and 626 mg/m2, respectively. During rice-wheat rotation period, significance differences exists among N2O emission factors of three soils, with the value of (1.1 +/- 0.23)%, (0.75 +/- 0.17%) and (1.01 +/- 0.11)%. Furthermore, under the high N fertilizer level, N2O emission factors of three soils had no significantly difference (p = 0.3); while, the N2O emission factors existed difference among three soils under the low and middle N fertilizer level (F = 6.25, p = 0.01).
18839629	Narezushi is one of Japanese traditional foods and is made by fermenting salted fish meat and cooked rice together. In this study, the microbial diversity of samma-narezushi (narezushi using saury, Cobolabis saira) was analyzed by the 16S ribosomal RNA gene (rDNA) clone library. Randomly selected 89 clones were sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed. The sequences were classified into 12 operational taxonomy units (OTUs) at the 97% identity threshold. Most of the clones (89%) were lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and included Lactobacillus sakei, Leuconostoc gelidum, Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis and L. pisium. The most predominant clone was L. sakei at 72% of the clones. The second most abundant clone was L. gelidum. These results suggest that L. sakei mainly contributes to the lactic acid fermentation process, taste and flavor of samma-narezushi. The present study showed that the culture independent method is useful for the microbial diversity analysis of narezushi.
18839812	Results of experimental researches in the modelling systems simulating infringements of temperature modes of storage of a grain, shown an opportunity of intensive accumulation mycotoxin citrinin in infected by toxigenic molds Penicillium citrinum grains of rice and wheat are submitted. Most high levels of citrinin were found out as a result of growth P. citrinum in rice, achieving 300-350 mg/kg of a grain during 21 days. High frequency of occurrence among Penicillium genera citrinin-producing strains (5.9%) was established, that specifies a large extent of risk for human health of food grains, contaminated this widespread kind of moldsopportunity of application ELISA method with using "RIDASCREEN Citrinin" kits for detection and quantification of citrinin in a food grain is shown.
18839907	With simulated pot culture in greenhouse, the ammonia volatilization from rice shoot and its affecting factors after flowering was studied under different N fertilization levels. The results showed that the daily and total amount of volatilized ammonia increased with increasing N application rate, with a certain variance among different N levels observed. At flowering and maturing stages; the ammonia volatilization from rice shoot (y) had significant negative correlations with functional leaf GS activity (x1) and positive correlations with functional leaf apoplastic NH4+ concentration (x2), with y = -0.37846x1 + 0.41821x2 + 0.04925 (R2 = 0.9471, n = 16), and negative correlations with N harvest index (x1) and physiological N use efficiency (x2), following y = -0.02117x1 + 0.75186 (R2 = 0.842, n = 8) and y = -1.10386x2 + 35.52676 (R2 = 0.8489, n = 8), respectively. It was suggested that the increasing ammonia volatilization from rice shoot under high N fertilization level was correlated with the decrease of N use efficiency by rice.
18840300	Aromatic rice is popular worldwide because of its characteristic fragrance. Genetic studies and physical fine mapping reveal that a candidate gene (fgr/OsBADH2) homologous to betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase is responsible for aroma metabolism in fragrant rice varieties, but the direct evidence demonstrating the functions of OsBADH2 is lacking. To elucidate the physiological roles of OsBADH2, sequencing approach and RNA interference (RNAi) technique were employed to analyze allelic variation and functions of OsBADH2 gene in aroma production. Semi-quantitative, real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), as well as gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) were conducted to determine the expression levels of OsBADH2 and the fragrant compound in wild type and transgenic OsBADH2-RNAi repression lines, respectively. The results showed that multiple mutations identical to fgr allele occur in the 13 fragrant rice accessions across China; OsBADH2 is expressed constitutively, with less expression abundance in mature roots; the disrupted OsBADH2 by RNA interference leads to significantly increased 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline production. We have found that the altered expression levels of OsBADH2 gene influence aroma accumulation, and the prevalent aromatic allele probably has a single evolutionary origin.
18841607
18842139	Helitrons are DNA transposable elements that are proposed to replicate via a rolling circle mechanism. Non-autonomous helitron elements have captured gene fragments from many genes in maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) but only a handful of genes in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). This observation suggests very different histories for helitrons in these two species, but it is unclear which species contains helitrons that are more typical of plants. We performed computational searches to identify helitrons in maize and rice genomic sequence data. Using 12 previously identified helitrons as a seed set, we identified 23 helitrons in maize, five of which were polymorphic among a sample of inbred lines. Our total sample of maize helitrons contained fragments of 44 captured genes. Twenty-one of 35 of these helitrons did not cluster with other elements into closely related groups, suggesting substantial diversity in the maize element complement. We identified over 552 helitrons in the japonica rice genome. More than 70% of these were found in a collinear location in the indica rice genome, and 508 clustered as a single large subfamily. The japonica rice elements contained fragments of only 11 genes, a number similar to that in Arabidopsis. Given differences in gene capture between maize and rice, we examined sequence properties that could contribute to differences in capture rates, focusing on 3' palindromes that are hypothesized to play a role in transposition termination. The free energy of folding for maize helitrons were significantly lower than those in rice, but the direction of the difference differed from our prediction. Maize helitrons are clearly unique relative to those of rice and Arabidopsis in the prevalence of gene capture, but the reasons for this difference remain elusive. Maize helitrons do not seem to be more polymorphic among individuals than those of Arabidopsis; they do not appear to be substantially older or younger than the helitrons in either species; and our analyses provided little evidence that the 3' hairpin plays a role.
18842796	High-glycemic-load diets may increase colorectal cancer risk through hyperinsulinemic effects. We analyzed data for 191,004 participants in the Multiethnic Cohort Study to determine the risk of colorectal cancer associated with glycemic load (GL), carbohydrate, and sucrose and to ascertain whether this risk was modified by sex and ethnicity. During 8 y of follow-up, 2379 incident cases of colorectal adenocarcinoma occurred. We used baseline quantitative food-frequency questionnaire data to assess usual dietary intake over the preceding year. Using Cox regression, we calculated adjusted relative risks (RRs) and 95% CIs for colorectal cancer associated with quintiles of GL, carbohydrate, and sucrose. For both men and women in this cohort, white rice was the major contributor to GL. In multivariate models, RRs for colorectal cancer decreased significantly with increasing GL in women (RR for the highest quintile versus the lowest: 0.75; 95% CI: 0.57, 0.97; P for trend = 0.02) but not in men (RR: 1.15; 95% CI: 0.89, 1.48; P for trend = 0.19). Results for carbohydrate and sucrose were similar. The inverse association with GL was found in women of all ethnic groups (P for interaction = 0.58). In men, an interaction was found between ethnicity and GL (P < 0.01): white men had a positive association with increasing GL (RR: 1.69; 95% CI: 0.98, 2.92; P for trend < 0.01), but men of other ethnic groups did not. GL and carbohydrate intake appear to protect against colorectal cancer in women in the Multiethnic Cohort, perhaps because a major source of GL is white rice.
18842867	A Gram-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped bacterium, designated strain JA3-B52(T), was isolated from the roots of fresh rice plants (Oryza sativa). The cells were motile by means of polar single or lateral flagella. The colonies were non-pigmented. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence comparisons, the strain was phylogenetically related to species of the genus Rheinheimera, having the greatest level of sequence similarity with respect to Rheinheimera texasensis A62-14B(T) (97.16 %). The bacterium grew at temperatures from 10 to 37 degrees C, with an optimum at 30 degrees C. The strain exhibited growth with 0-3.0 % (w/v) NaCl and at pH 6.0-8.5. The main cellular fatty acids were C(16 : 1)omega7c, C(17 : 1)omega8c, C (16 : 0), C(18 : 1)omega7c and C(12 : 0) 3-OH. The DNA G+C content was 47.0 mol%. The levels of similarity between the 16S rRNA gene sequence of strain JA3-B52(T) and those of the type strains of Rheinheimera species ranged from 95.38 to 97.16 %. The mean level of DNA-DNA relatedness between strain JA3-B52(T) and R. texasensis A62-14B(T), the strain most closely related to the isolate, was 20.4 %. On the basis of physiological and biochemical characteristics and genotypic data obtained in this work, strain JA3-B52(T) represents a novel species of the genus Rheinheimera, for which the name Rheinheimera tangshanensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is JA3-B52(T) (=CGMCC 1.6362(T) =DSM 19460(T)).
18844318	A facile chiral ligand-exchange capillary electrophoretic method has been explored for the enantioseparation and UV detection of dansyl-amino acids with Zn(II) L-arginine complex as a chiral selecting system. Successful enantioseparation of 17 pairs of amino acid enantiomers has been achieved with a buffer of 100 mM boric acid, 5 mM ammonium acetate, 3 mM ZnSO4 and 6 mM L-Arg at pH 8.0, of which 10 pairs were fully resolved with resolution in between 1.59 and 4.21. This new method was shown to be applicable to the separation of some mixed pairs of amino acids and to the quantitative analysis of some real samples such as rice vinegars, with a linear range between 0.8 and 150 microg/mL, correlation coefficient above 0.99 and recovery in between 90.1 and 112.4%. It was found that amino acids with low resistance side chain(s), low tendency to form intramolecular hydrogen bond or high tendency to form intermolecular hydrogen bonds are more easily enantioseparated than those with extra carboxyl and/or phenyl groups. By the use of the suggested buffer, the running pH should be selected at 7.4-9.0 to compromise the resolution and elution speed.
18844776	Rice endosperm plays a very important role in seedling germination and determines the qualities of rice grain. Although studies on specific gene categories in endosperm have been carried out, global view of gene expression at a transcription level in rice endosperm is still limited. To gain a better understanding of the global and tissue-specific gene expression profiles in rice endosperm, a cDNA library from rice endosperm of immature seeds was sequenced. A cDNA array was constructed based on the tentative unique transcripts derived from expression sequence tag (EST) assembling results and then hybridized with cDNAs from five different tissues or organs including endosperm, embryo, leaf, stem and root of rice. Significant redundancy was found for genes encoding prolamin, glutelin, allergen, and starch synthesis proteins, accounting for approximately 34% of the total ESTs obtained. The cDNA array revealed 87 significantly expressed genes in endosperm compared with the other four organs or tissues. These genes included 13 prolamin family proteins, 17 glutelin family proteins, 12 binding proteins, nine catalytic proteins and four ribosomal proteins, indicating a complicated biological processing in rice endosperm. In addition, Northern verification of 1,4-alpha-glucan branching enzyme detected two isoforms in rice endosperm, the larger one of which only existed in endosperm.
18844779	Agricultural environments deteriorate due to excess nitrogen application. Breeding for low nitrogen responsive genotypes can reduce soil nitrogen input. Rice genotypes respond variably to soil available nitrogen. The present study attempted quantification of genotype x nitrogen level interaction and mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) and other associated agronomic traits. Twelve parameters were observed across a set of 82 double haploid (DH) lines derived from IR64/Azucena. Three nitrogen regimes namely, native (0 kg/ha; no nitrogen applied), optimum (100 kg/ha) and high (200 kg/ha) replicated thrice were the environments. The parents and DH lines were significantly varying for all traits under different nitrogen regimes. All traits except plant height recorded significant genotype x environment interaction. Individual plant yield was positively correlated with nitrogen use efficiency and nitrogen uptake. Sixteen QTLs were detected by composite interval mapping. Eleven QTLs showed significant QTL x environment interactions. On chromosome 3, seven QTLs were detected associated with nitrogen use, plant yield and associated traits. A QTL region between markers RZ678, RZ574 and RZ284 was associated with nitrogen use and yield. This chromosomal region was enriched with expressed gene sequences of known key nitrogen assimilation genes.
18845413	To assess the quality of communication skills of triagists, working at out-of-hours (OOH) centres, and to determine the correlation between the communication score and the duration of the telephone consultation. Telephone incognito standardised patients (TISPs) called 17 OOH centres presenting different clinical cases. The assessment of communication skills was carried out using the RICE-communication rating list. The duration of each telephone consultation was determined. The mean overall score for communication skills was 35% of the maximum feasible. Triagists usually asked questions about the clinical situation correctly and little about the patients' personal situation, perception of the problem or expectation. Advice about the outcome of triage and self-care advice was usually given without checking for patients' understanding and acceptance of the advice. Calls were often handled in an unstructured way, without summarizing or clarifying the different steps within the consultation. There was a positive correlation of 0.86 (p<0.01) between the overall communication score and the duration of the telephone consultation. Assessment of communication skills of triagists revealed specific shortcomings and learning points to improve the quality of communication skills during telephone triage. Training in telephone consultation should focus more on patient-centred communication with active listening, active advising and structuring the call. Apart from adequate communication skills, triagists need sufficient time for telephone consultation to enable high quality performance.
18847470	Plant genomes contain a high proportion of duplicated genes as a result of numerous whole, segmental and local duplications. These duplications lead up to the formation of gene families, which are the usual material for many evolutionary studies. However, all characterized genomes include single-copy (unique) genes that have not received much attention. Unlike gene duplication, gene loss is not an unspecific mechanism but is rather influenced by a functional selection. In this context, we have established and used stringent criteria in order to identify suitable sets of unique genes present in plant proteomes. Comparisons of unique genes in the green phylum were used to characterize the gene and protein features exhibited by both conserved and species-specific unique genes. We identified the unique genes within both A. thaliana and O. sativa genomes and classified them according to the number of homologs in the alternative species: none (U{1:0}), one (U{1:1}) or several (U{1:m}). Regardless of the species, all the genes in these groups present some conserved characteristics, such as small average protein size and abnormal intron number. In order to understand the origin and function of unique genes, we further characterized the U{1:1} gene pairs. The possible involvement of sequence convergence in the creation of U{1:1} pairs was discarded due to the frequent conservation of intron positions. Furthermore, an orthology relationship between the two members of each U{1:1} pair was strongly supported by a high conservation in the protein sizes and transcription levels. Within the promoter of the unique conserved genes, we found a number of TATA and TELO boxes that specifically differed from their mean number in the whole genome. Many unique genes have been conserved as unique through evolution from the green alga Ostreococcus lucimarinus to higher plants. Plant unique genes may also have homologs in bacteria and we showed a link between the targeting towards plastids of proteins encoded by plant nuclear unique genes and their homology with a bacterial protein. Many of the A. thaliana and O. sativa unique genes are conserved in plants for which the ancestor diverged at least 725 million years ago (MYA). Half of these genes are also present in other eukaryotic and/or prokaryotic species. Thus, our results indicate that (i) a strong negative selection pressure has conserved a number of genes as unique in genomes throughout evolution, (ii) most unique genes are subjected to a low divergence rate, (iii) they have some features observed in housekeeping genes but for most of them there is no functional annotation and (iv) they may have an ancient origin involving a possible gene transfer from ancestral chloroplasts or bacteria to the plant nucleus.
18848973	Rice blast disease caused by Magnaporthe oryzae is the most important fungal disease of rice. To understand the molecular basis of interaction between the fungus and rice, we constructed a cDNA library from a rice-resistant line inoculated with M. oryzae. One hundred and fifty-three cDNA clones were sequence analyzed, of which 129 exhibited significant nucleotide sequence homology to known genes, 21 were homologous to unknown genes, while three clones did not match to any database. However, these three unmatched clones showed sequence homology at protein level in the protein databases and one of them encoded a disease resistance-related protein kinase and was abundant in the EST collection. Northern analysis showed that this disease resistance-related protein kinase gene was induced by inoculation and only expressed in the rice-resistant, but not susceptible, lines. Southern analysis showed that this gene was present in a single copy in the rice genome and co-segregated with the M. oryzae resistance in the cross of the resistant and susceptible lines. This study illustrates that sequencing of ESTs from inoculated resistant plants can reveal genes responsive to pathogen infection, which could help understand plant defense mechanisms.
18850055	In Arabidopsis, PAUSED (PSD) encodes the ortholog of los1p/exportin-t, which mediates the nuclear export of transfer RNA (tRNA) in yeast and mammals. However, in monocot plants such as rice, knowledge of the corresponding ortholog is limited, and its effects on growth development and productivity remain unknown. In this study, we verified a rice transfer-DNA insertional mutant psd line and analyzed its phenotypes; the mutant displayed severe morphological defects including retarded development and low fertility compared with wild-type rice. Examining intronless tRNA-Tyr and intron-containing pre-tRNA-Ala expression levels in cytoplasmic and nuclear fraction with Northern blot analysis between wild-type and mutant leaf tissue suggested that rice PSD might be involved in tRNA export from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. Additionally, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that PSD transcript was expressed throughout normal rice plant development, and subcellular localization assays showed that rice PSD protein was present in both the nucleus and cytoplasm. In summary, our data implied that the putative PSD gene might be indispensable for normal rice development and its function might be the same as that of Arabidopsis PSD.
18850630	Elite rice hybrids, when compared to their parental lines, exhibit increased yield and other favorable agronomical traits, such as pathogen- and water-stress resistances, which are described as heterosis, and the molecular mechanism of heterosis remains to be elucidated. Since genomic sequences of the paternal (9311) and maternal lines (P64S) of a major rice hybrid variety LYP9 (Liang-You-Pei-Jiu) were acquired recently, we performed a proteomic study on mature embryos of this hybrid triad based on 2-DE and MALDI-TOF MS analyses, and identified 54 differentially expressed proteins involved in major biological processes including nutrient reservoir, response to stress, and metabolism. We observed that most of the storage proteins exhibit overdominance and stress-induced proteins display additivity. We compared proteomic results with transcriptomic data generated from the same embryo samples and found 28 candidate heterosis-associated genes shared by the two datasets. We further traced back to their genomic structures including protein-coding and regulatory regions and found that most of these genes have multiple copies in rice genomes as paralogous genes. Based on alignment of coding and regulation regions, we found that most of the differentially expressed genes at both protein and RNA levels are recent gene duplicates (paralogous genes) with relative little difference in protein-coding regions between orthologous genes (between genes of the two parental genomes) as compared to regulatory regions that harbor numerous indels and base substitutions.
18852152	In recent years a number of legume genes involved in root nodule (RN) symbiosis have been identified in the model legumes, Lotus japonicus (Lotus) and Medicago truncatula. Among them, a distinct set of genes has been categorized as a common symbiosis pathway (CSP), because they are also essential for another mutual interaction, the arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) symbiosis, which is evolutionarily older than the RN symbiosis and is widely distributed in the plant kingdom. Based on the concept that the legume RN symbiosis has evolved from the ancient AM symbiosis, one issue is whether the CSP is functionally conserved between non-nodulating plants, such as rice, and nodulating legumes. We identified three rice CSP gene orthologs, OsCASTOR, OsPOLLUX and OsCCaMK, and demonstrated the indispensable roles of OsPOLLUX and OsCCaMK in rice AM symbiosis. Interestingly, molecular transfection of either OsCASTOR or OsCCaMK could fully complement symbiosis defects in the corresponding Lotus mutant lines for both the AM and RN symbioses. Our results not only provide a conserved genetic basis for the AM symbiosis between rice and Lotus, but also indicate that the core of the CSP has been well conserved during the evolution of RN symbiosis. Through evolution, CASTOR and CCaMK have remained as the molecular basis for the maintenance of CSP functions in the two symbiosis systems.
18852502	Successful control of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, the causal agent of bacterial leaf streak, requires a specific and reliable diagnostic tool. A pathovar-specific PCR assay was developed for the rapid and accurate detection of the plant pathogenic bacterium Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola in diseased plant. Based on differences in a membrane fusion protein gene of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola and other microorganisms, which was generated from NCBI (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/) and CMR (http://cmr.tigr.org/) BLAST searches, one pair of pathovar-specific primers, XOCMF/XOCMR, was synthesized. Primers XOCMF and XOCMR from a membrane fusion protein gene were used to amplify a 488-bp DNA fragment. The PCR product was only produced from 4 isolates of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola among 37 isolates of other pathovars and species of Xanthomonas, Pectobacterium, Pseudomonas, Burkholderia, Escherichia coli, and Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. dianthi. The results suggested that the assay detected the pathogen more rapidly and accurately than standard isolation methods.
18854007	Rice (Oryza sativa) productivity is adversely impacted by numerous biotic and abiotic factors. An approximate 52% of the global production of rice is lost annually owing to the damage caused by biotic factors, of which approximately 21% is attributed to the attack of insect pests. In this paper we report the isolation, cloning and characterization of Allium sativum leaf agglutinin (asal) gene, and its expression in elite indica rice cultivars using Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation method. The stable transgenic lines, expressing ASAL, showed explicit resistance against major sap-sucking pests. Allium sativum leaf lectin gene (asal), coding for mannose binding homodimeric protein (ASAL) from garlic plants, has been isolated and introduced into elite indica rice cultivars susceptible to sap-sucking insects, viz., brown planthopper (BPH), green leafhopper (GLH) and whitebacked planthopper (WBPH). Embryogenic calli of rice were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium harbouring pSB111 super-binary vector comprising garlic lectin gene asal along with the herbicide resistance gene bar, both under the control of CaMV35S promoter. PCR and Southern blot analyses confirmed stable integration of transgenes into the genomes of rice plants. Northern and western blot analyses revealed expression of ASAL in different transgenic rice lines. In primary transformants, the level of ASAL protein, as estimated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, varied between 0.74% and 1.45% of the total soluble proteins. In planta insect bioassays on transgenic rice lines revealed potent entomotoxic effects of ASAL on BPH, GLH and WBPH insects, as evidenced by significant decreases in the survival, development and fecundity of the insects. In planta insect bioassays were carried out on asal transgenic rice lines employing standard screening techniques followed in conventional breeding for selection of insect resistant plants. The ASAL expressing rice plants, bestowed with high entomotoxic effects, imparted appreciable resistance against three major sap-sucking insects. Our results amply demonstrate that transgenic indica rice harbouring asal exhibit surpassing resistance against BPH, GLH and WBPH insects. The prototypic asal transgenic rice lines appear promising for direct commercial cultivation besides serving as a potential genetic resource in recombination breeding.
18854048	Members of the pine family (Pinaceae), especially species of spruce (Picea spp.) and pine (Pinus spp.), dominate many of the world's temperate and boreal forests. These conifer forests are of critical importance for global ecosystem stability and biodiversity. They also provide the majority of the world's wood and fiber supply and serve as a renewable resource for other industrial biomaterials. In contrast to angiosperms, functional and comparative genomics research on conifers, or other gymnosperms, is limited by the lack of a relevant reference genome sequence. Sequence-finished full-length (FL)cDNAs and large collections of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) are essential for gene discovery, functional genomics, and for future efforts of conifer genome annotation. As part of a conifer genomics program to characterize defense against insects and adaptation to local environments, and to discover genes for the production of biomaterials, we developed 20 standard, normalized or full-length enriched cDNA libraries from Sitka spruce (P. sitchensis), white spruce (P. glauca), and interior spruce (P. glauca-engelmannii complex). We sequenced and analyzed 206,875 3'- or 5'-end ESTs from these libraries, and developed a resource of 6,464 high-quality sequence-finished FLcDNAs from Sitka spruce. Clustering and assembly of 147,146 3'-end ESTs resulted in 19,941 contigs and 26,804 singletons, representing 46,745 putative unique transcripts (PUTs). The 6,464 FLcDNAs were all obtained from a single Sitka spruce genotype and represent 5,718 PUTs. This paper provides detailed annotation and quality assessment of a large EST and FLcDNA resource for spruce. The 6,464 Sitka spruce FLcDNAs represent the third largest sequence-verified FLcDNA resource for any plant species, behind only rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and the only substantial FLcDNA resource for a gymnosperm. Our emphasis on capturing FLcDNAs and ESTs from cDNA libraries representing herbivore-, wound- or elicitor-treated induced spruce tissues, along with incorporating normalization to capture rare transcripts, resulted in a rich resource for functional genomics and proteomics studies. Sequence comparisons against five plant genomes and the non-redundant GenBank protein database revealed that a substantial number of spruce transcripts have no obvious similarity to known angiosperm gene sequences. Opportunities for future applications of the sequence and clone resources for comparative and functional genomics are discussed.
18854256	In this paper, we present a novel technique that uses the optimal linear prediction theory to exploit all the existing redundancies in a color video sequence for lossless compression purposes. The main idea is to introduce the spatial, the spectral, and the temporal correlations in the autocorrelation matrix estimate. In this way, we calculate the cross correlations between adjacent frames and adjacent color components to improve the prediction, i.e., reduce the prediction error energy. The residual image is then coded using a context-based Golomb-Rice coder, where the error modeling is provided by a quantized version of the local prediction error variance. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm achieves good compression ratios and it is roboust against the scene change problem.
18854333	We examined the effect of (+)-ABA on the in vitro interaction of rice FCA and FY homologs, OsFCA and OsFY. From this analysis, we found no disruption of the OsFCA-OsFY complexes by ABA treatment. This result prompted us to examine the effect of ABA on the FCA-FY interaction. In these experiments, we could not reproduce the inhibitory effect of (+)-ABA on the interaction between FCA and FY. Based on these combined results, we believe that the inhibitory effect of (+)-ABA on the FCA-FY interaction should be cautiously reconsidered.
18854357	Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) may be considered the ultimate genetic marker as they represent the finest resolution of a DNA sequence (a single nucleotide), are generally abundant in populations and have a low mutation rate. Analysis of assembled EST sequence data provides a cost-effective means to identify large numbers of SNPs associated with functional genes. We have developed an integrated SNP discovery pipeline, which identifies SNPs from assembled EST sequences. The results are maintained in a custom relational database along with EST source and annotation information. The current database hosts data for the important crops rice, barley and Brassica. Users may rapidly identify polymorphic sequences of interest through BLAST sequence comparison, keyword searches of annotations derived from UniRef90 and GenBank comparisons, GO annotations or in genes corresponding to syntenic regions of reference genomes. In addition, SNPs between specific varieties may be identified for targeted mapping and association studies. SNPs are viewed using a user-friendly graphical interface. The database is freely accessible at http://autosnpdb.qfab.org.au/.
18854575	Globally, over one-third of irrigated land is affected by salinity, including much of the land under lowland rice cultivation in the tropics, seriously compromising yields of this most important of crop species. However, there remains an insufficient understanding of the cellular basis of salt tolerance in rice. Here, three methods of 24Na+ tracer analysis were used to investigate primary Na+ transport at the root plasma membrane in a salt-tolerant rice cultivar (Pokkali) and a salt-sensitive cultivar (IR29). Futile cycling of Na+ at the plasma membrane of intact roots occurred at both low and elevated levels of steady-state Na+ supply ([Na+]ext=1 mM and 25 mM) in both cultivars. At 25 mM [Na+]ext, a toxic condition for IR29, unidirectional influx and efflux of Na+ in this cultivar, but not in Pokkali, became very high [>100 micromol g (root FW)(-1) h(-1)], demonstrating an inability to restrict sodium fluxes. Current models of sodium transport energetics across the plasma membrane in root cells predict that, if the sodium efflux were mediated by Na+/H+ antiport, this toxic scenario would impose a substantial respiratory cost in IR29. This cost is calculated here, and compared with root respiration, which, however, comprised only approximately 50% of what would be required to sustain efflux by the antiporter. This suggests that either the conventional 'leak-pump' model of Na+ transport or the energetic model of proton-linked Na+ transport may require some revision. In addition, the lack of suppression of Na+ influx by both K+ and Ca2+, and by the application of the channel inhibitors Cs+, TEA+, and Ba2+, questions the participation of potassium channels and non-selective cation channels in the observed Na+ fluxes.
18856055	The mRNA differential display technique was performed to investigate the differences of gene expression in the longissimus dorsi muscle and backfat tissues from Chinese Meishan and Russian Large White pigs. One novel gene that was differentially expressed was identified through semi-quantitative RT-PCR and the cDNA complete sequence was then obtained using the rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) method. The cDNA sequence of this gene is not homologous to any of the known porcine genes. The sequence prediction analysis revealed that the open reading frame of this gene encodes a protein of 402 amino acids that contains the putative conserved transposase DDE domain and further Blast analysis revealed that this protein has 100% homology with the Tn10 transposase from Oryza sativa, Serratia marcescens, and Salmonella, and therefore, this gene can be defined as the swine Tn10 transposase gene. This novel porcine gene was finally assigned to Gene ID: 100049649. The RT-PCR analysis of the tissue expression profile was carried out using the tissue cDNAs of one Meishan pig as the templates, and the result indicated that this novel swine gene is moderately expressed in fat, and weakly expressed in small intestine, liver, kidney, and spleen but almost not expressed in heart, ovary, muscle, and lung. Our experiment established the primary foundation for further research into the biological significance of swine Tn10 transposase gene.
1885617	We screened a cDNA library of germinating rice seeds with a cDNA for aleurain (cysteine proteinase from barley) and obtained three distinct types of cDNA clones encoding three species of cysteine proteinases (oryzains alpha, beta, and gamma). The deduced amino acid sequences are distinct in part, but, on the whole, are similar to one another. The three sequences all contain the catalytic triad Cys25-His159-Asn175 (papain numbering). The three oryzains are similar to one another and also to other known cysteine proteinases such as papain and cathepsin H with respect to the sequences around the active site residues and the COOH-terminal Trp-rich region. Amino acid sequence comparison revealed that oryzains alpha and beta are similar not only to each other (70% similarity) but also to actinidin and papain (about 50%), whereas oryzain gamma was rather similar to aleurain (85%) and cathepsin H (60%). Northern blot analysis revealed that the mRNAs for the three oryzains are expressed only in seeds, not in shoots or roots, and show different expression profiles during germination and when the seeds are treated with gibberellic acid. Oryzains alpha and gamma are expressed continuously during germination with a maximum expression 5 days from the start of germination, but are present in neither ripening nor ripened seeds. On the other hand, oryzain beta is expressed not only during germination, but also in ripened seeds before germination. It was noted that the expression of the three oryzain mRNAs is enhanced in different manners by gibberellic acid but is not enhanced by other plant hormones such as auxin. The induction of oryzain beta mRNA is transient, reaching a maximum in 4 h from the addition of giberellic acid and diminishing rapidly thereafter, while the induction of oryzain alpha and gamma mRNAs continues over 5 days. Thus, multiple systems involving cysteine proteinases must be differentially involved in the germination process, probably under hormonal control.
18861404
18872925
18881705
18884105
18885058
18885264
1888896	The 5' upstream region of the rice storage protein type II glutelin gene was examined for its regulatory function in transgenic tobacco. Chimeric genes containing 5' flanking regions of the glutelin gene transcriptionally fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene were introduced into the tobacco genome by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated gene transfer. The chimeric genes were expressed specifically in developing seeds, as opposed to leaves and stems, of the transgenic tobacco. Histochemical analysis revealed that the GUS activity was restricted to the endosperm tissue. A deletion series of the 5' flanking region was created from position -1329 to -74 relative to the transcriptional initiation site and similarly examined in transgenic tobacco. Measurement of GUS activity of the seeds from the transgenic plants bearing the chimeric genes indicated that the region between positions -441 and -237 was required for the temporal and endosperm-specific expression of the GUS activity in tobacco. RNA analysis by northern blotting confirmed the importance of the -441 to -237 region. Addition of up to 888 bp to the -441 deletion resulted in little increase in GUS activity, although all constructs expressing the GUS gene showed a similar tissue and temporal regulation pattern.
18892922
18897650
18909456
18915224
18922010	The utility of benzoxazinones and some of their synthetic derivatives in the search for new leads for herbicide model development has been explored. The work described focuses on obtaining derivatives that present selectivity in the system Oryza sativa- Echinochloa crus-galli. To achieve this goal the influence of lipophilicity in this system has been studied by preparing 14 ester derivatives at the N-4 position of D-DIBOA along with other compounds with different functionalization and chain lengths at position C-2. These compounds have been tested in the aforementioned system, and the dose-response profiles have been compared. The most active compound was 2-ethyl-4-hydroxy-(2H)-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one, which presented higher selectivity than the specific herbicide Cotanil-35. These results confirm the potential of D-DIBOA as a lead herbicide for the control of Echinochloa spp. in rice crops.
18922162	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) germplasm represents an extraordinary source of genes that control traits of agronomic importance such as drought tolerance. This diversity is the basis for the development of new cultivars better adapted to water restriction conditions, in particular for upland rice, which is grown under rainfall. The analyses of subtractive cDNA libraries and differential protein expression of drought tolerant and susceptible genotypes can contribute to the understanding of the genetic control of water use efficiency in rice. Two subtractive libraries were constructed using cDNA of drought susceptible and tolerant genotypes submitted to stress against cDNA of well-watered plants. In silico analysis revealed 463 reads, which were grouped into 282 clusters. Several genes expressed exclusively in the tolerant or susceptible genotypes were identified. Additionally, proteome analysis of roots from stressed plants was performed and 22 proteins putatively associated to drought tolerance were identified by mass spectrometry. Several genes and proteins involved in drought-response, as well as genes with no described homologs were identified. Genes exclusively expressed in the tolerant genotype were, in general, related to maintenance of turgor and cell integrity. In contrast, in the susceptible genotype, expression of genes involved in protection against cell damage was not detected. Several protein families identified in the proteomic analysis were not detected in the cDNA analysis. There is an indication that the mechanisms of susceptibility to drought in upland rice are similar to those of lowland varieties.
18922805	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important model monocot and cereal crop. While the rice genome sequence has been published and annotated, relatively little is known about the transcriptional networks that regulate rice gene expression. For this reason, we have developed Osiris, a database containing promoter sequences, predicted transcription factor (TF) binding sites, gene ontology annotation and microarray expression data for 24 209 genes in the rice genome. These tools are seamlessly integrated in the Osiris web site, allowing the user to visualize TF binding sites in multiple promoters; analyze the statistical significance of enriched TF binding sites; query for genes containing similar promoter regulatory logic or gene function and visualize the microarray expression patterns of queried or selected gene sets. http://www.bioinformatics2.wsu.edu/Osiris
18923484
18923529	Triticeae contains hundreds of species of both annual and perennial types. Although substantial genomic tools are available for annual Triticeae cereals such as wheat and barley, the perennial Triticeae lack sufficient genomic resources for genetic mapping or diversity research. To increase the amount of sequence information available in the perennial Triticeae, three expressed sequence tag (EST) libraries were developed and annotated for Pseudoroegneria spicata, a mixture of both Elymus wawawaiensis and E. lanceolatus, and a Leymus cinereus x L. triticoides interspecific hybrid. The ESTs were combined into unigene sets of 8 780 unigenes for P. spicata, 11 281 unigenes for Leymus, and 7 212 unigenes for Elymus. Unigenes were annotated based on putative orthology to genes from rice, wheat, barley, other Poaceae, Arabidopsis, and the non-redundant database of the NCBI. Simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were developed, tested for amplification and polymorphism, and aligned to the rice genome. Leymus EST markers homologous to rice chromosome 2 genes were syntenous on Leymus homeologous groups 6a and 6b (previously 1b), demonstrating promise for in silico comparative mapping. All ESTs and SSR markers are available on an EST information management and annotation database (http://titan.biotec.uiuc.edu/triticeae/).
18923909	The 42-kDa endochitinase (cht42) gene from the mycoparasitic fungus, Trichoderma virens, driven by CaMV 35S promoter, was introduced into rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Eight transgenic plants harboring single copies of complete T-DNA were identified by Southern blot analysis. Homozygous transgenic plants were identified for five lines in the T(1) generation by Southern blot analysis. Homozygous T(2) plants constitutively accumulated high levels of the cht42 transcript, showed 2.4- to 4.6-fold higher chitinase activity in total leaf extract and 1.6- to 1.8-fold higher chitinase activity in the extracellular fluid. Infection assays performed on the homozygous T(2) plants with Rhizoctonia solani showed up to 62% reduction in the sheath blight disease index.
18923912	Proteome analysis was carried out to identify the young panicle proteins during different developmental stages under sterile and fertile conditions. Based on spot quantity and quality, 50 protein spots were analyzed by matrix associated laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and 20 spots were identified. Most of these proteins are closely associated with energy metabolism, protein biosynthesis, cell wall formation and stress responses, which are essential cell activities to the pollen development. Gene expression analysis of three different proteins by semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed that the mRNA level was not correlated exactly with the protein level.
1892446	The usefulness of hypoallergenic rice (HRS-1) was clinically evaluated in 43 patients with severe atopic dermatitis (AD), who were suspected of having rice allergy, in collaboration with 13 hospitals. The patients were fed with HRS-1 instead of eliminating both regular rice and wheat from their daily diet. AD area and severity index (ADASI) was calculated as an indicator of the degree of cutaneous symptoms. Significant decrease of ADASI were observed in the 2nd and 4th week and at the end of the replacement therapy (5.6 weeks on average). On final evaluation, 74% of the patients tested showed "moderate" to "remarkable" improvement, and in 53% of the patients HRS-1 resulted in a "moderate" to "remarkable" reduction in the dosage and the grade of potency of the steroid ointment concomitantly used for the treatment. Finally, HRS-1 was evaluated as "useful" to "very useful" as the elimination diet in 70% of the patients.
1892480	The hypolipidemic response of rice bran oil (RBO) was investigated in nonhuman primates fed semi-purified diets containing blends of oils which included RBO at 0-35% Kcals as dietary fat. The studies demonstrated the following: (a) the degree of reduction of serum total cholesterol (TC) and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLC) was highly correlated with initial serum cholesterol levels of the monkey on the stabilization diet; (b) the content of rice bran oil in the diet was the predominant factor influencing serum TC, LDLC and apoB causing up to a 40% reduction in LDLC without affecting high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLC) when RBO was the sole dietary oil fed; (c) the cholesterol-lowering capabilities of RBO were not explained by its fatty acid composition. These studies suggest that RBO may be an additional vegetable oil which lowers serum cholesterol levels by unique mechanisms which will require further study.
18926721	Threshold photoelectron photoion coincidence (TPEPICO) experiments have shown that o-, m-, and p-difluorobenzene ions dissociate via a common, ring-opened intermediate and not via ionized p-difluorobenzene. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) modeling of the experimental breakdown curves yields activation energies for the initial isomerization of 4.48 +/- 0.05, 4.55 +/- 0.05, and 4.68 +/- 0.05 eV for o-, m-, and p-difluorobenzene, respectively. These values place each ion at a similar absolute energy and thus similar transition states. A large positive DeltaS(double dagger) for each ion (ca 100 J K(-1) mol(-1)) suggests a ring-opened structure for these transition states.
18927222	A large collection of full-length cDNAs is essential for the correct annotation of genomic sequences and for the functional analysis of genes and their products. We obtained a total of 39,936 soybean cDNA clones (GMFL01 and GMFL02 clone sets) in a full-length-enriched cDNA library which was constructed from soybean plants that were grown under various developmental and environmental conditions. Sequencing from 5' and 3' ends of the clones generated 68 661 expressed sequence tags (ESTs). The EST sequences were clustered into 22,674 scaffolds involving 2580 full-length sequences. In addition, we sequenced 4712 full-length cDNAs. After removing overlaps, we obtained 6570 new full-length sequences of soybean cDNAs so far. Our data indicated that 87.7% of the soybean cDNA clones contain complete coding sequences in addition to 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions. All of the obtained data confirmed that our collection of soybean full-length cDNAs covers a wide variety of genes. Comparative analysis between the derived sequences from soybean and Arabidopsis, rice or other legumes data revealed that some specific genes were involved in our collection and a large part of them could be annotated to unknown functions. A large set of soybean full-length cDNA clones reported in this study will serve as a useful resource for gene discovery from soybean and will also aid a precise annotation of the soybean genome.
18928198	Microsatellites are abundant across prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes. However, comparative analysis of microsatellites in the organellar genomes of plants and their utility in understanding phylogeny has not been reported. The purpose of this study was to understand the organization of microsatellites in the coding and non-coding regions of organellar genomes of major cereals viz., rice, wheat, maize and sorghum. About 5.8-14.3% of mitochondrial and 30.5-43.2% of chloroplast microsatellites were observed in the coding regions. About 83.8-86.8% of known mitochondrial genes had at least one microsatellite while this value ranged from 78.6-82.9% among the chloroplast genomes. Dinucleotide repeats were the most abundant in the coding and non-coding regions of the mitochondrial genome while mononucleotides were predominant in chloroplast genomes. Maize harbored more repeats in the mitochondrial genome, which could be due to the larger size of genome. A phylogenetic analysis based on mitochondrial and chloroplast genomic microsatellites revealed that rice and sorghum were closer to each other, while wheat was the farthest and this corroborated with the earlier reported phylogenies based on nuclear genome co-linearity and chloroplast gene-based analysis.
18929155	Inflammation participates in the genesis and progression of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Interleukin (IL)-1 is a major pro-inflammatory cytokine, which plays a dominant role in hypoxic-ischemic (and postinfectious) brain damage. Abundant evidence reveals the principal involvement of IL-1 over other pro-inflammatory cytokines. IL-1 interacts with the IL-1 receptor I (IL-1RI). The natural IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) is a large 17.5-kDa peptide that competes with IL-1 for its binding site on IL-1RI. Recombinant IL-1ra (Kineret) is effective in human inflammatory conditions. However, a number of drawbacks of IL-1ra limit its broader use; these include injection site reactions [70%], broad immunosuppression, and high costs. We hereby report the characterization of a small (peptide) IL-1RI antagonist we developed, namely rytvela (termed 101.10), and its efficacy in models of (gut) inflammation and of newborn hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Experiments reveal that 101.10 is selective for the IL-1RI and inhibits to a variable extent different effects induced by IL-1. 101.10 is effective in vivo (on systemic as well as oral administration) in established models of inflammation involving IL-1, notably in inflammatory bowel disease, and is superior to dexamethasone. In a rat pup model of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury (Rice-Vannucci model), where IL-1 and IL-1R expression is increased, 101.10 preserved microvascular density, parenchymal integrity, and brain mass. In conclusion, we hereby describe for the first time the discovery of a stable, potent, and effective specific IL-1RI small (peptide) antagonist, namely 101.10 (rytvela), which exhibits allosteric modulatory properties, and is effective in vivo in models of inflammation (known to involve IL-1) and in particular in hypoxic-ischemic newborn brain injury. 101.10 (and small alike compounds) may be suitable alternatives to IL-1ra.
18930002	This study investigated the water absorption curve characteristics and structural properties of rice used for sake brewing. The parameter values in the water absorption rate equation were calculated using experimental data. Differences between sample parameters for rice used for sake brewing and typical rice were confirmed. The water absorption curve for rice suitable for sake brewing showed a quantitatively sharper turn in the S-shaped water absorption curve than that of typical rice. Structural characteristics, including specific volume, grain density, and powdered density of polished rice, were measured by a liquid substitution method using a Gay-Lussac pycnometer. In addition, we calculated internal porosity from whole grain and powdered grain densities. These results showed that a decrease in internal porosity resulted from invasion of water into the rice grain, and that a decrease in the grain density affected expansion during the water absorption process. A characteristic S-shape water absorption curve for rice suitable for sake brewing was related to the existence of an invisible Shinpaku-like structure.
18930342	The current status of aquatic organotin pollution in Taiwan is reviewed. In freshwater sediments and biota, especially in rice-field related habitats, phenyltins (PTs) were dominant among the organotin pollutants, whereas butyltins (BTs) were usually predominant in marine environments. Among the marine habitats, contamination levels were found to be in the descending order of harbour and estuary>fish cultural site>coastal>offshore>coral reefs. Imposex snails were observed in all the sampling years (1990-2003). Meanwhile, organotin concentrations were greater in winter than those in summer, whereas proportions of PTs were much higher in summer than in winter. Due to the lack of continuous monitoring data, the effectiveness of the ban on TPT usage in agriculture in 1999 and the prohibition of TBT use on small boats in 2003 is still not known.
18930388	Rice straw was irradiated using an electron beam at currents and then hydrolyzed with cellulase and beta-glucosidase to produce glucose. The pretreatment by electron beam irradiation (EBI) was found to significantly increase the enzyme digestibility of rice straw. Specifically, when rice straw that was pretreated by EBI at 80 kGy at 0.12 mA and 1 MeV was hydrolyzed with 60 FPU of cellulase and 30 CBU of beta-glucosidase, the glucose yield after 132 h of hydrolysis was 52.1% of theoretical maximum. This value was significantly higher than the 22.6% that was obtained when untreated rice straw was used. In addition, SEM analysis of pretreated rice straw revealed that EBI caused apparent damage to the surface of the rice straw. Furthermore, EBI pretreatment was found to increase the crystalline portion of the rice straw. Finally, the crystallinity and enzyme digestibility were found to be strongly correlated between rice straw samples that were pretreated by EBI under different conditions.
18930389	In this study, Box-Behnken design and response surface methodology were employed to plan experiments and optimize the microwave pretreatment of rice straw. Experimental results show that microwave intensity (MI), irradiation time (IT) and substrate concentration (SC) were main factors governing the enzymatic saccharification of rice straw. The maximal efficiencies of cellulose, hemicellulose and total saccharification were respectively increased by 30.6%, 43.3% and 30.3% under the optimal conditions of MI 680 W, IT 24 min and SC 75 g/L. The chemical composition analysis of straw further confirmed that microwave pretreatment could disrupt the silicified waxy surface, break down the lignin-hemicellulose complex and partially remove silicon and lignin.
18930627	Osteoporosis is a disease of aging associated with bone loss that often occurs without symptoms until microarchitectural deterioration becomes so significant that bone fracture occurs. The effective microorganism-X (EM-X) is an antioxidant beverage derived from ferment of unpolished rice, sea weeds and papaya with effective microorganisms of lactic acid bacteria, yeast and photosynthetic bacteria (containing minerals, alpha-tocopherol, lycopene, ubiquinone, saponin and flavonoids). The levels of serum estradiol (E(2)) and the bone density of the middle and epiphysis of femurs were assessed in order to determine the effect of EM-X on osteoporosis in ovariectomized rat (an animal model of postmenopausal osteoporosis). EM-X (1 ml/rat/day) was initially administrated by gavage to rats which were then allowed to consume 10% (v/v) EM-X in water freely for 3 months. There was no statistical significance of E(2) level between sham operation group and control group, indicating that sham operation did not affect E(2) level. However, the E(2) levels in the ovariectomized rats tended to increase after treatment of EM-X for 3 months. The bone density of the middle and epiphysis of femur in both sham operation and ovariectomy group decreased with time. Rats receiving EM-X for 3 months after sham operation or ovariectomy had increased bone density of the middle of femur that was statistically significant (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05). The bone density of the epiphysis of femur in both sham operation and ovariectomy group were significantly increased, an outcome highly suggestive of the beneficial effects of EM-X on bone density of the middle and the epiphysis of femur in the rats with or without ovariectomy.
18930703	This research illustrates a geostatistical approach for modeling the spatial distribution patterns of Anopheles arabiensis Patton (Patton) aquatic habitats in two riceland environments. QuickBird 0.61 m data, encompassing the visible bands and the near-infra-red (NIR) band, were selected to synthesize images of An. arabiensis aquatic habitats. These bands and field sampled data were used to determine ecological parameters associated with riceland larval habitat development. SAS was used to calculate univariate statistics, correlations and Poisson regression models. Global autocorrelation statistics were generated in ArcGISfrom georeferenced Anopheles aquatic habitats in the study sites. The geographic distribution of Anopheles gambiae s.l. aquatic habitats in the study sites exhibited weak positive autocorrelation; similar numbers of log-larval count habitats tend to clustered in space. Individual rice land habitat data were further evaluated in terms of their covariations with spatial autocorrelation, by regressing them on candidate spatial filter eigenvectors. Each eigenvector generated from a geographically weighted matrix, for both study sites, revealed a distinctive spatial pattern. The spatial autocorrelation components suggest the presence of roughly 14-30% redundant information in the aquatic habitat larval count samples. Synthetic map pattern variables furnish a method of capturing spatial dependency effects in the mean response term in regression analyses of rice land An. arabiensis aquatic habitat data.
18930836	Peritoneal dissemination of ovarian carcinoma is mediated by epithelial-mesenchymal interconversions leading to the disruption of cell-cell contact and modulation of cell-extracellular matrix (ECM) interactions. The present study was designed to evaluate the effects of epidermal growth factor (EGF) as a modulator of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signalling and changes in integrin expression during the process similar to EMT. A fibroblastic morphology with reduced intercellular cell contacts and increased cell motility was observed in ovarian cancer cell lines in response to EGF and was concomitant with the up regulation of EMT-associated N-cadherin and vimentin expression. These changes were accompanied by an increase in alpha2, alpha6 and beta1 integrin subunits and activation of JAK2 and STAT3 signalling which was suppressed by a specific JAK2 inhibitor. Consistent with the suppression of STAT3 activity, N-cadherin and vimentin expression were abrogated and was coherent with the loss of cell motility and the expression of alpha6 and beta1 integrin subunits. Neutralizing antibodies against alpha6 and beta1 subunits inhibited cancer cell migration. A strong correlation between the expression of N-cadherin, vimentin and JAK2/STAT3 levels were detected in high-grade ovarian tumors and was consistent with the previously reported enhanced expression of alpha6 integrin subunit in advanced tumors [Ahmed N, Riley C, Oliva K, Rice G, Quinn M. Ascites induces modulation of alpha6beta1 integrin and urokinase plasminogen activator receptor expression and associated functions in ovarian carcinoma. British Journal of Cancer 2005;92:1475-85]. Our data incorporating the clinical samples and the cancer cell lines is the first to demonstrate that JAK2/STAT3 pathway may be one of the downstream events in EMT-like process and alpha6beta1 integrin-mediated signalling in ovarian carcinomas.
18930897	A rice floral mutant was obtained from a japonica variety Zhonghua 11, which was characterized with the phenotype of more stamens, more pistils and early flowering. Genetic analysis showed that the mutant phenotype was controlled by a single recessive gene, which was designed as floral organ number 5 (fon5). To map fon5, an F2 population was derived from the cross between Huajingxian 74 and fon5 mutant. Gene fon5 was roughly mapped between the microsatellite markers RM400 and RM412 on chromosome 6 with genetic distances of 10.5 and 1.6 cM, respectively. Then, six new po-lymorphic InDel markers were developed in the region. According to the physical information of the markers, locus fon5 was finally delimited to a region of 116 kb.
1893097	Both exon 1 and intron 1 of the maize Shrunken-1 (Sh1) gene individually stimulate expression of reporter genes in transient gene expression experiments if present within the transcription unit. The Sh1 exon 1 mediates a 10-fold increase in activity when inserted at the 5' end of the bacterial chloramphenicol transacetylase (CAT) marker gene in both monocot and dicot protoplasts. The Sh1 intron 1 enhances chimeric gene expression in rice and maize protoplasts approximately 100-fold but inhibits CAT expression in tobacco protoplasts. In combination, the stimulatory effects of Sh1 exon 1 and intron 1 are multiplicative in monocot protoplasts resulting in a final enhancement of up to 1000-fold compared to the unmodified CAT or luciferase marker genes.
1893114
18931143	OsbZIP23 is a member of the basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor family in rice (Oryza sativa). Expression of OsbZIP23 is strongly induced by a wide spectrum of stresses, including drought, salt, abscisic acid (ABA), and polyethylene glycol treatments, while other stress-responsive genes of this family are slightly induced only by one or two of the stresses. Transactivation assay in yeast demonstrated that OsbZIP23 functions as a transcriptional activator, and the sequences at the N terminus (amino acids 1-59) and a region close to the C terminus (amino acids 210-240) are required for the transactivation activity. Transient expression of OsbZIP23-green fluorescent protein in onion (Allium cepa) cells revealed a nuclear localization of the protein. Transgenic rice overexpressing OsbZIP23 showed significantly improved tolerance to drought and high-salinity stresses and sensitivity to ABA. On the other hand, a null mutant of this gene showed significantly decreased sensitivity to a high concentration of ABA and decreased tolerance to high-salinity and drought stress, and this phenotype can be complemented by transforming the OsbZIP23 back into the mutant. GeneChip and real-time polymerase chain reaction analyses revealed that hundreds of genes were up- or down-regulated in the rice plants overexpressing OsbZIP23. More than half of these genes have been annotated or evidenced for their diverse functions in stress response or tolerance. In addition, more than 30 genes that are possible OsbZIP23-specific target genes were identified based on the comparison of the expression profiles in the overexpressor and the mutant of OsbZIP23. Collectively, these results indicate that OsbZIP23 functions as a transcriptional regulator that can regulate the expression of a wide spectrum of stress-related genes in response to abiotic stresses through an ABA-dependent regulation pathway. We propose that OsbZIP23 is a major player of the bZIP family in rice for conferring ABA-dependent drought and salinity tolerance and has high potential usefulness in genetic improvement of stress tolerance.
18931456	We investigated the evolutionary dynamics of wheat mitochondrial genes with respect to their structural differentiation during organellar evolution, and to mutations that occurred during cereal evolution. First, we compared the nucleotide sequences of three wheat mitochondrial genes to those of wheat chloroplast, alpha-proteobacterium and cyanobacterium orthologs. As a result, we were able to (1) differentiate the conserved and variable segments of the orthologs, (2) reveal the functional importance of the conserved segments, and (3) provide a corroborative support for the alpha-proteobacterial and cyanobacterial origins of those mitochondrial and chloroplast genes, respectively. Second, we compared the nucleotide sequences of wheat mitochondrial genes to those of rice and maize to determine the types and frequencies of base changes and indels occurred in cereal evolution. Our analyses showed that both the evolutionary speed, in terms of number of base substitutions per site, and the transition/transversion ratio of the cereal mitochondrial genes were less than two-fifths of those of the chloroplast genes. Eight mitochondrial gene groups differed in their evolutionary variability, RNA and Complex I (nad) genes being most stable whereas Complex V (atp) and ribosomal protein genes most variable. C-to-T transition was the most frequent type of base change; C-to-G and G-to-C transversions occurred at lower rates than all other changes. The excess of C-to-T transitions was attributed to C-to-U RNA editing that developed in early stage of vascular plant evolution. On the contrary, the editing of C residues at cereal T-to-C transition sites developed mostly during cereal divergence. Most indels were associated with short direct repeats, suggesting intra- and intermolecular recombination as an important mechanism for their origin. Most of the repeats associated with indels were di- or trinucleotides, although no preference was noticed for their sequences. The maize mt genome was characterized by a high incidence of indels, comparing to the wheat and rice mt genomes.
18931457	Transposable elements (TEs) have played important roles in the evolution of genes and genomes of higher eukaryotes. Among the TEs in the rice genome, miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) exist at the highest copy number. Some of MITEs in the rice genome contain poly(A) signals and putative cis-acting regulatory domains. Insertion events of such MITEs may have caused many structural and functional changes of genomes. The genome-wide examination of MITE-derived sequences could elucidate the contribution of MITEs to gene evolution. Here we report on the MITEs in the rice genome that have contributed to the emergence of novel genes and the expansion of the sequence diversity of the genome and mRNAs. Of the MITE-derived sequences, approximately 6000 were found in gene regions (exons and introns) and 67,000 in intergenic regions. In gene regions, most MITEs are located in introns rather than exons. For over 300 protein-coding genes, coding sequences, poly(A) sites, transcription start sites, and splicing sites overlap with MITEs. These sequence alterations via MITE insertions potentially affect the biological functions of gene products. Many MITE insertions also exist in 5'-untranslated regions (UTRs), 3'-UTRs, and in the proximity of genes. Although mutations in these non-protein coding regions do not alter protein sequences, these regions have key roles for gene regulation. Moreover, MITE family sequences (Tourist, Stowaway, and others) are unevenly distributed in introns. Our findings suggest that MITEs may have contributed to expansion of genome diversity by causing alterations not only in gene functions but also in regulation of many genes.
18931975	Plant growth-promoting endophytic fungi with gibberellin-producing ability were isolated from the roots of Carex kobomugi Ohwi, a common sand-dune plant, and bioassayed for plant growth-promotion. A new strain, Arthrinium phaeospermum KACC43901, promoted growth of waito-c rice and Atriplex gemelinii. Analysis of its culture filtrate showed the presence of bioactive GA(1) (0.5 ng/ml), GA(3) (8.8 ng/ml), GA(4) (4.7 ng/ml) and GA(7) (2.2 ng/ml) along with physiologically inactive GA(5) (0.4 ng/ml), GA(9) (0.6 ng/ml), GA(12) (0.4 ng/ml), GA(15) (0.4 ng/ml), GA(19) (0.9 ng/ml) and GA(24) (1.8 ng/ml). The fungal isolate was identified through sequence homology and phylogenetic analysis of 18S rDNA (internal transcribed region).
18931976	Understanding the molecular basis of plant performance under water-limiting conditions will help to breed crop plants with a lower water demand. We investigated the physiological and gene expression response of drought-tolerant (IR57311 and LC-93-4) and drought-sensitive (Nipponbare and Taipei 309) rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars to 18 days of drought stress in climate chamber experiments. Drought stressed plants grew significantly slower than the controls. Gene expression profiles were measured in leaf samples with the 20 K NSF oligonucleotide microarray. A linear model was fitted to the data to identify genes that were significantly regulated under drought stress. In all drought stressed cultivars, 245 genes were significantly repressed and 413 genes induced. Genes differing in their expression pattern under drought stress between tolerant and sensitive cultivars were identified by the genotype x environment (G x E) interaction term. More genes were significantly drought regulated in the sensitive than in the tolerant cultivars. Localizing all expressed genes on the rice genome map, we checked which genes with a significant G x E interaction co-localized with published quantitative trait loci regions for drought tolerance. These genes are more likely to be important for drought tolerance in an agricultural environment. To identify the metabolic processes with a significant G x E effect, we adapted the analysis software MapMan for rice. We found a drought stress induced shift toward senescence related degradation processes that was more pronounced in the sensitive than in the tolerant cultivars. In spite of higher growth rates and water use, more photosynthesis related genes were down-regulated in the tolerant than in the sensitive cultivars.
18932023	Vascular development is a central theme in plant science. However, little is known about the mechanism of vascular development in monocotyledons (compared with dicotyledons). Therefore, we investigated sequential processes of differentiation into various different vascular cells by carrying out detailed observations using serial sections of the bases of developing leaves of rice and maize. The developmental process of the longitudinal vascular bundles was divided into six stages in rice and five stages in maize. The initiation of differentiation into procambial progenitor cells forming the commissural vein arose in a circular layer cell that was adjacent to both a metaxylem vessel and one or a few phloem cells in stage V longitudinal vascular bundles. In most cases the differentiation of ground meristem cells into procambial progenitor cells extended in one direction, toward the next longitudinal vascular bundle, and subsequent periclinal divisions and further differentiation produced a vessel element, two companion cells and a sieve element to form a commissural vein. These results suggest the presence of an intercellular signal(s) that induces differentiation of the circular layer cell and the ground meristem cells into procambial progenitor cells, forming a commissural vein sequentially.
18932506
18933517
18934715
1893492	An antitumor polysaccharide SPR-901 was found in a fermented broth of a kind of lactic acid bacteria isolated from rice bran. SPR-901 is a high molecular alpha-glucan and its linkages are almost linear alpha-1,6 glucosidic ones with a small amount (ca. 5%) of branches at C-3 positions. It is a highly purified alpha-glucan and it contains no protein and no inorganic salts. SPR-901 showed significant antitumor activities against murine allogeneic and syngeneic tumors by both intraperitoneal and oral administration, and enhanced carbon clearance ability in mice, while it showed no direct cytotoxicities in vitro. The mechanism of antitumor activities of SPR-901 is supposed to be a host-mediated one, and this substance is classified as one of the biological response modifiers. These properties of SPR-901 were identical to those of RON, which was obtained from rice bran, therefore we concluded that these two polysaccharides were the same substance.
18935421
18936055	Increasing evidence suggests that proteins present in the angiosperm sieve tube system play an important role in the long distance signaling system of plants. To identify the nature of these putatively non-cell-autonomous proteins, we adopted a large scale proteomics approach to analyze pumpkin phloem exudates. Phloem proteins were fractionated by fast protein liquid chromatography using both anion and cation exchange columns and then either in-solution or in-gel digested following further separation by SDS-PAGE. A total of 345 LC-MS/MS data sets were analyzed using a combination of Mascot and X!Tandem against the NCBI non-redundant green plant database and an extensive Cucurbit maxima expressed sequence tag database. In this analysis, 1,209 different consensi were obtained of which 1,121 could be annotated from GenBank and BLAST search analyses against three plant species, Arabidopsis thaliana, rice (Oryza sativa), and poplar (Populus trichocarpa). Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analyses identified sets of phloem proteins that function in RNA binding, mRNA translation, ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis, and macromolecular and vesicle trafficking. Our findings indicate that protein synthesis and turnover, processes that were thought to be absent in enucleate sieve elements, likely occur within the angiosperm phloem translocation stream. In addition, our GO analysis identified a set of phloem proteins that are associated with the GO term "embryonic development ending in seed dormancy"; this finding raises the intriguing question as to whether the phloem may exert some level of control over seed development. The universal significance of the phloem proteome was highlighted by conservation of the phloem proteome in species as diverse as monocots (rice), eudicots (Arabidopsis and pumpkin), and trees (poplar). These results are discussed from the perspective of the role played by the phloem proteome as an integral component of the whole plant communication system.
18936226	The specific aims of this study were to examine the relationships between household food expenditures and under-5 child mortality among families in rural Indonesia. Data collected between 2000 and 2003 in the Indonesia Nutrition and Health Surveillance System, a population-based surveillance system conducted in 7 rural provinces, were utilized for the analysis. Food expenditures were divided into 4 major categories: plant foods (fruits and vegetables), animal foods, other nongrain foods, and grain foods (primarily rice) and expressed as quintiles of proportional food expenditure. Of 292,894 households, 32,777 (11.2%) households reported a history of under-5 child mortality. Plant food expenditures were associated with reduced odds of under-5 child mortality [odds ratio (OR), 0.70; 95% CI, 0.67-0.73; P < 0.0001) among families in the highest quintile compared with the lowest quintile, adjusting for potential confounders. Grain food expenditures were associated with increased odds of under-5 child mortality (OR, 1.25; 95% CI, 1.20-1.30; P < 0.0001) among families in the highest quintile compared with the lowest quintile, adjusting for potential confounders. Animal food expenditures were not consistently and significantly associated with under-5 child mortality across quintiles of expenditures. These findings suggest that lower under-5 child mortality is found in households that spend a greater proportion of income on plant foods and less on grain foods in rural Indonesia.
18936491	Submergence-tolerant rice maintains viability during complete submergence by limiting underwater elongation until floodwaters recede. Acclimation responses to submergence are coordinated by the submergence-inducible Sub1A, which encodes an ethylene-responsive factor-type transcription factor (ERF). Sub1A is limited to tolerant genotypes and sufficient to confer submergence tolerance to intolerant accessions. Here we evaluated the role of Sub1A in the integration of ethylene, abscisic acid (ABA), and gibberellin (GA) signaling during submergence. The submergence-stimulated decrease in ABA content was Sub1A-independent, whereas GA-mediated underwater elongation was significantly restricted by Sub1A. Transgenics that ectopically express Sub1A displayed classical GA-insensitive phenotypes, leading to the hypothesis that Sub1A limits the response to GA. Notably Sub1A increased the accumulation of the GA signaling repressors Slender Rice-1 (SLR1) and SLR1 Like-1 (SLRL1) and concomitantly diminished GA-inducible gene expression under submerged conditions. In the Sub1A overexpression line, SLR1 protein levels declined under prolonged submergence but were accompanied by an increase in accumulation of SLRL1, which lacks the DELLA domain. In the presence of Sub1A, the increase in these GA signaling repressors and decrease in GA responsiveness were stimulated by ethylene, which promotes Sub1A expression. Conversely, ethylene promoted GA responsiveness and shoot elongation in submergence-intolerant lines. Together, these results demonstrate that Sub1A limits ethylene-promoted GA responsiveness during submergence by augmenting accumulation of the GA signaling repressors SLR1 and SLRL1.
18937216	The brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens Stål, is a major rice pest in many parts of Asia. Neonicotinoids such as imidacloprid and dinotefuran are widely used for control of this pest, and resistance to these insecticides has developed in recent years. This pest has also been widely exposed to triazophos and fenvalerate, although these insecticides are not used for the control of the pest directly. Here, the effects of sublethal doses of these four insecticides on the reproduction and wing formation in BPH were examined. Imidacloprid and dinotefuran reduced the fecundity of BPH to 68.8% and 52.4% in macropterous families, and to 57.9% and 43.1% in brachypterous families, when compared with the untreated controls. By contrast, triazophos and fenvalerate increased fecundity. In both macropterous and brachypterous families, sublethal doses of imidacloprid and dinotefuran showed significant induction of macropterous adults. Imidacloprid and dinotefuran could reduce the fecundity of BPH to a significant extent, demonstrating further activity against this pest in addition to their direct toxicity. The significant induction of macropterous adults by sublethal doses of imidacloprid and dinotefuran is of importance in the management of this pest, particularly in the areas of predicting the size of emigrating populations and the numbers of insects likely to occur in newly colonized areas.
18937307	This study was performed to clarify whether lifetime cadmium (Cd) intake (LCd) calculated from consumption of Cd-polluted rice and other foods, or drinking and/or cooking with Jinzu River water is associated with the occurrence of renal tubular dysfunction and to estimate the threshold level of LCd using a benchmark dose procedure. From participants in the 1967 and 1968 health examinations, the 2607 subjects (1430 men and 1177 women) who were aged 50 years or more, and who had either resided in the current hamlet since birth or moved there from a nonpolluted area and resided for a total of 30 years or longer were chosen as the target population. Based on a multiple logistic regression analysis performed for abnormal urinary findings (proteinuria, glucosuria, or proteinuria with glucosuria) using LCd as the explanatory variable with or without consideration of use of the river water for drinking and/or cooking, it was inferred that both factors of LCd and use of the river water influenced the occurrence of renal tubular dysfunction, with LCd appearing to exert a greater impact compared to drinking/cooking with the river water. Moreover, the threshold values of LCd for proteinuria with glucosuria were estimated to be 2.91 g in men and 1.79 g in women, without adjustment for use of the river water. After adjustment for its use, the values of proteinuria were calculated to be 0.93 g in women. When assuming user/nonuser status of the river water, the threshold level was calculated as 0.75/0.93 g in women. The difference of 0.18 g was interpreted as representing the influence of drinking/cooking with the river water.
18937936	Four varieties of starch granules from potato, wheat, maize, and rice were fractionated into homogeneous 10-microm-sized ranges. The size with the largest amount of granules was reacted with ADP-[(14)C]Glc, washed, and peeled into 7-9 layers, using a controlled peeling process, involving 90:10 volume proportions of Me(2)SO-H(2)O at 10 degrees C. All of the starches showed biosynthesis of starch throughout the granules. Starch synthase activities were determined for each of the layers. Three of the starches had a relatively large amount of synthase activity in the second layer, with only a small amount in the first layer. Potato starch had the largest amount of activity in the first layer. Starch synthase activity was found to alternate between higher and lower activities throughout all of the varieties of granules, showing that the synthesis was not uniform and also was not exclusively occurring at the surface of the starch granules, which had previously been hypothesized. From these results and our previous studies on the mechanism of starch chain elongation by the addition of d-glucose to the reducing end of a growing chain that is covalently attached to the active site of starch synthase, a hypothesis is proposed for how starch granules grow in vivo.
18939599	Rice is more elevated in arsenic than all other grain crops tested to date, with whole grain (brown) rice having higher arsenic levels than polished (white). It is reported here that rice bran, both commercially purchased and specifically milled for this study, have levels of inorganic arsenic, a nonthreshold, class 1 carcinogen, reaching concentrations of approximately 1 mg/kg dry weight, around 10-20 fold higher than concentrations found in bulk grain. Although pure rice bran is used as a health food supplement, perhaps of more concern is rice bran solubles, which are marketed as a superfood and as a supplement to malnourished children in international aid programs. Five rice bran solubles products were tested, sourced from the United States and Japan, and were found to have 0.61-1.9 mg/kg inorganic arsenic. Manufactures recommend approximately 20 g servings of the rice bran solubles per day, which equates to a 0.012-0.038 mg intake of inorganic arsenic. There are no maximum concentration levels (MCLs) set for arsenic or its species in food stuffs. EU and U.S. water regulations, set at 0.01 mg/L total or inorganic arsenic, respectively, are based on the assumption that 1 L of water per day is consumed, i.e., 0.01 mg of arsenic/ day. At the manufacturers recommended rice bran solubles consumption rate, inorganic arsenic intake exceeds 0.01 mg/ day, remembering that rice bran solubles are targeted at malnourished children and that actual risk is based on mg kg(-1) day(-1) intake.
18939686	Knowledge of mosquito species diversity, occurrence, and distribution is an essential component of vector ecology and a guiding principle to formulation and implementation of integrated vector management programs. A 12-month entomological survey was conducted to determine the diversity of riceland mosquitoes and factors affecting their occurrence and distribution at 3 sites targeted for malaria vector control in Mwea, Kenya. Adult mosquitoes were sampled indoors by pyrethrum spray catch and outdoors by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention light traps. Mosquitoes were then morphologically identified to species using taxonomic keys. The characteristics of houses sampled for indoor resting mosquitoes, including number of people sleeping in each house the night preceding collection, presence of bed nets, location of the house, size of eaves, wall type, presence of cattle and distance of the house to the cowshed, and proximity to larval habitats, were recorded. Of the 191,378 mosquitoes collected, 95% were identified morphologically to species and comprised 25 species from 5 genera. Common species included Anopheles arabiensis (53.5%), Culex quinquefasciatus (35.5%), An. pharoensis (4.7%), An. coustani (2.5%), and An. funestus (1.6%). Shannon's species diversity and evenness indices did not differ significantly among the 3 study sites. There was a marked house-to-house variation in the average number of mosquitoes captured. The number of people sleeping in the house the night preceding collection, size of eaves, distance to the cowshed, and the nearest larval habitat were significant predictors of occurrence of either or both An. arabiensis and Cx. quinquefasciatus. The peak abundance of An. arabiensis coincided with land preparation and the first few weeks after transplanting of rice seedlings, and that of Cx. quinquefasciatus coincided with land preparation, late stage of rice development, and short rains. After transplanting of rice seedlings, the populations of Cx. quinquefasciatus were collected more outdoors than indoors, suggesting a shift from endophily to exophily. These results demonstrate that irrigated rice cultivation has a strong impact on mosquito species occurrence, distribution, abundance, and behavior, and that certain house characteristics increase the degree of human-vector contact.
18939779	The sizes and concentrations of 21 atmospheric polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were measured at Jhu-Shan (a rural site) and Sin-Gang (a town site) in central Taiwan in October and December 2005. Air samples were collected using semi-volatile sampling trains (PS-1 sampler) over 16 days for rice-straw burning and nonburning periods. These samples were then analyzed using a gas chromatograph with a flame-ionization detector (GC/FID). Particle-size distributions in the particulate phase show a bimode, peaking at 0.32-0.56 microm and 3.2-5.6 microm at the two sites during the nonburning period. During the burning period, peaks also appeared at 0.32-0.56 microm and 3.2-5.6 microm at Jhu-Shan, with the accumulation mode (particle size between 0.1 and 3.2 microm) accounting for approximately 74.1% of total particle mass. The peaks at 0.18-0.32 microm and 1.8-3.2 microm at Shin-Gang had an accumulation mode accounting for approximately 70.1% of total particle mass. The mass median diameter (MMD) of 3.99-4.35 microm in the particulate phase suggested that rice-straw burning generated increased numbers of coarse particles. The concentrations of total PAHs (sum of 21 gases + particles) at the Jhu-Shan site (Sin-Gang site) were 522.9 +/- 111.4 ng/ml (572.0 +/- 91.0 ng/ml) and 330.1 +/- 17.0 ng/ml (or 427.5 +/- 108.0 ng/ml) during burning and nonburning periods, respectively, accounting for a roughly 58% (or 34%) increase in the concentrations of total PAHs due to rice-straw burning. On average, low-weight PAHs (about 87.0%) represent the largest proportion of total PAHs, followed by medium-weight PAHs (7.1%), and high-weight PAHs (5.9%). Combustion-related PAHs during burning periods were 1.54-2.57 times higher than those during nonburning periods. The results of principal component analysis (PCA)/absolute principal component scores (APCS) suggest that the primary pollution sources at the two sites are similar and include vehicle exhaust, coal/wood combustion, incense burning, and incineration emissions. Open burning of rice straw was estimated to contribute approximately 5.0-33.5% to the total atmospheric PAHs at the two sites.
18939965	Glycosyltransferases (GTs) are one of the largest enzyme groups required for the synthesis of complex wall polysaccharides and glycoproteins in plants. However, due to the limited number of related mutants that have observable phenotypes, the biological function(s) of most GTs in cell-wall biosynthesis and assembly have remained elusive. We report here the isolation and in-depth characterization of a brittle rice mutant, brittle culm 10 (bc10). bc10 plants show pleiotropic phenotypes, including brittleness of the plant body and retarded growth. The BC10 gene was cloned through a map-based approach, and encodes a Golgi-located type II membrane protein that contains a domain designated as 'domain of unknown function 266' (DUF266) and represents a multiple gene family in rice. BC10 has low sequence similarity with the domain to a core 2 beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (C2GnT), and its in vitro enzymatic activity suggests that it functions as a glycosyltransferase. Monosaccharide analysis of total and fractioned wall residues revealed that bc10 showed impaired cellulose biosynthesis. Immunolocalization and isolation of arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs) in the wild-type and bc10 showed that the level of AGPs in the mutant is significantly affected. BC10 is mainly expressed in the developing sclerenchyma and vascular bundle cells, and its deficiency causes a reduction in the levels of cellulose and AGPs, leading to inferior mechanical properties.
18939975	The C<-->U substitution types of RNA editing have been observed frequently in organellar genomes of land plants. Although various attempts have been made to explain why such a seemingly inefficient genetic mechanism would have evolved, no satisfactory explanation exists in our view. In this study, we examined editing patterns in chloroplast genomes of the hornwort Anthoceros formosae and the fern Adiantum capillus-veneris and in mitochondrial genomes of the angiosperms Arabidopsis thaliana, Beta vulgaris and Oryza sativa, to gain an understanding of the question of how RNA editing originated. We found that 1) most editing sites were distributed at the 2nd and 1st codon positions, 2) editing affected codons that resulted in larger hydrophobicity and molecular size changes much more frequently than those with little change involved, 3) editing uniformly increased protein hydrophobicity, 4) editing occurred more frequently in ancestrally T-rich sequences, which were more abundant in genes encoding membrane-bound proteins with many hydrophobic amino acids than in genes encoding soluble proteins, and 5) editing occurred most often in genes found to be under strong selective constraint. These analyses show that editing mostly affects functionally important and evolutionarily conserved codon positions, codons and genes encoding membrane-bound proteins. In particular, abundance of RNA editing in plant organellar genomes may be associated with disproportionately large percentages of genes in these two genomes that encode membrane-bound proteins, which are rich in hydrophobic amino acids and selectively constrained. These data support a hypothesis that natural selection imposed by protein functional constraints has contributed to selective fixation of certain editing sites and maintenance of the editing activity in plant organelles over a period of more than four hundred millions years. The retention of genes encoding RNA editing activity may be driven by forces that shape nucleotide composition equilibrium in two organellar genomes of these plants. Nevertheless, the causes of lineage-specific occurrence of a large portion of RNA editing sites remain to be determined.
18940787	The rice blast resistance gene Pikm was cloned by a map-based cloning strategy. High-resolution genetic mapping and sequencing of the gene region in the Pikm-containing cultivar Tsuyuake narrowed down the candidate region to a 131-kb genomic interval. Sequence analysis predicted two adjacently arranged resistance-like genes, Pikm1-TS and Pikm2-TS, within this candidate region. These genes encoded proteins with a nucleotide-binding site (NBS) and leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) and were considered the most probable candidates for Pikm. However, genetic complementation analysis of transgenic lines individually carrying these two genes negated the possibility that either Pikm1-TS or Pikm2-TS alone was Pikm. Instead, it was revealed that transgenic lines carrying both of these genes expressed blast resistance. The results of the complementation analysis and an evaluation of the resistance specificity of the transgenic lines to blast isolates demonstrated that Pikm-specific resistance is conferred by cooperation of Pikm1-TS and Pikm2-TS. Although these two genes are not homologous with each other, they both contain all the conserved motifs necessary for an NBS-LRR class gene to function independently as a resistance gene.
18940851	Oryza glaberrima is widely grown in flood-prone areas of African river basins and is subject to prolonged periods of annual submergence. The effects of submergence on shoot elongation, shoot biomass, leaf area and CO(2) uptake were studied and compared with those of O. sativa. A wide selection of lines of O. sativa and O. glaberrima, including some classified as submergence tolerant, were compared in field and pot experiments. Plants were submerged completely for 31 d in a field experiment, and partially or completely for 37 d in a pot experiment in a growth chamber. Leaf elongation and growth in shoot biomass during complete submergence in the field were significantly greater in O. glaberrima than in O. sativa. So-called submergence-tolerant cultivars of O. sativa were unable to survive prolonged complete submergence for 31-37 d. This indicates that the mechanism of suppressed leaf elongation that confers increased survival of short-term submergence is inadequate for surviving long periods underwater. The O. sativa deepwater cultivar 'Nylon' and the 'Yélé1A' cultivar of O. glaberrima succeeded in emerging above the floodwater. This resulted in greatly increased shoot length, shoot biomass and leaf area, in association with an increased net assimilation rate compared with the lowland-adapted O. sativa 'Banjoulou'. The superior tolerance of deepwater O. sativa and O. glaberrima genotypes to prolonged complete submergence appears to be due to their greater photosynthetic capacity developed by leaves newly emerged above the floodwater. Vigorous upward leaf elongation during prolonged submergence is therefore critical for ensuring shoot emergence from water, leaf area extension above the water surface and a subsequent strong increase in shoot biomass.
18940854	Reducing damage to rice seedlings caused by flash flooding will improve the productivity of rainfed lowland rice in West Africa. Accordingly, the morphological and physiological responses of different forms of rice to complete submergence were examined in field and pot experiments to identify primary causes of damage. To characterize the physiological responses, seedlings from a wide genetic base including Oryza sativa, O. glaberrima and interspecific hybrids were compared using principle component analysis. Important factors linked to flash-flood tolerance included minimal shoot elongation underwater, increase in dry matter weight during submergence and post-submergence resistance to lodging. In particular, fast shoot elongation during submergence negatively affected plant growth after de-submergence. Also shoot-elongating cultivars showed a strong negative correlation between dry matter weight of the leaves that developed before submergence and leaves developing during submergence. Enhancement of shoot elongation during submergence in water that is too deep to permit re-emergence by small seedlings represents a futile escape strategy that takes place at the expense of existing dry matter in circumstances where underwater photosynthetic carbon fixation is negligible. Consequently, it compromises survival or recovery growth once flood water levels recede and plants are re-exposed to the aerial environment. Tolerance is greater in cultivars where acceleration of elongation caused by submergence is minimal.
18941822	Lipase-catalyzed interesterification was used to prepare different structured lipids (SL) from rice bran oil (RBO) by replacing some of the fatty acids with alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) from linseed oil (LSO) and n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) from cod liver oil (CLO). In one SL, the ALA content was 20% whereas in another the long chain n-3 PUFA content was 10%. Most of the n-3 PUFA were incorporated into the sn-1 and sn-3 positions of triacylglycerol. The influence of SL with RBO rich in ALA and EPA + DHA was studied on various lipid parameters in experimental animals. Rats fed RBO showed a decrease in total serum cholesterol by 10% when compared to groundnut oil (GNO). Similarly structured lipids with CLO and LSO significantly decreased total serum cholesterol by 19 and 22% respectively compared to rice bran oil. The serum TAGs level of rats fed SLs and blended oils were also significantly decreased by 14 and 17% respectively compared to RBO. Feeding of an n-3 PUFA rich diet resulted in the accumulation of long chain n-3 PUFA in various tissues and a reduction in the long chain n-6 PUFA. These studies indicate that the incorporation of ALA and EPA + DHA into RBO can offer health benefits.
18942309	Tubercular tenosynovitis is an uncommon condition and usually affects the upper limb. We report a case of a patient with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus who presented with wrist swelling. The clinical findings were suggestive of rheumatoid nodules, but the radiographic finding of calcification associated with the nodules and marked erosive changes primarily of the radio-carpal joint with sparing of the metacarpal joints led the radiologist to believe that the nodules may not be rheumatoid nodules. The presence of solid and fluid nature of the nodule and hyperechoic small echogenic foci (matted rice bodies within thickened synovium) on ultrasound suggested the presence of chronic synovitis of tuberculous infection rather than rheumatoid nodule as in our case. We recommend the use of ultrasound to determine the nature of nodular swellings seen clinically in patients with arthropathy.
18942680	2-DE is one of the most powerful methods for analyzing proteins expressed in cells and tissues. Immunodetection of proteins blotted on a polymer membrane is the method of choice for detecting specific proteins in 2-D gels. To precisely locate spots of immunoreactive proteins in 2-D gels, both dye staining and immunodetection were performed on the same PVDF membrane. Prior to immunodetection, nonspecific adsorption of the antibodies to the membrane was blocked with a synthetic polymer-based reagent (N-102) after protein transfer. The protein was then stained with colloidal gold or CBB followed by protein spot identification by LC-MS. Described herein is a method for multiplex analysis of proteins transferred to a PVDF membrane. Proteins that were phosphorylated at tyrosine in the phosphoproteome of rice callus or human ovarian cancer cells were detected by immunoblotting and subsequently identified with high precision.
18942836	Many industrial products and functional foods can be obtained from cheap and renewable raw agricultural materials. For example, starch can be converted to bioethanol as biofuel to reduce the current demand for petroleum or fossil fuel energy. On the other hand, starch can also be converted to useful functional ingredients, such as high fructose and high maltose syrups, wine, glucose, and trehalose. The conversion process involves fermentation by microorganisms and use of biocatalysts such as hydrolases of the amylase superfamily. Amylases catalyze the process of liquefaction and saccharification of starch. It is possible to perform complete hydrolysis of starch by using the fusion product of both linear and debranching thermostable enzymes. This will result in saving energy otherwise needed for cooling before the next enzyme can act on the substrate, if a sequential process is utilized. Recombinant enzyme technology, protein engineering, and enzyme immobilization are powerful tools available to enhance the activity of enzymes, lower the cost of enzyme through large scale production in a heterologous host, increase their thermostability, improve pH stability, enhance their productivity, and hence making it competitive with the chemical processes involved in starch hydrolysis and conversions. This review emphasizes the potential of using biocatalysis for the production of useful industrial products and functional foods from cheap agricultural produce and transgenic plants. Rice was selected as a typical example to illustrate many applications of biocatalysis in converting low-value agricultural produce to high-value commercial food and industrial products. The greatest advantages of using enzymes for food processing and for industrial production of biobased products are their environmental friendliness and consumer acceptance as being a natural process.
18942950	ABSTRACT To explore the potential for nontoxic crop protection technologies based on the inhibition of fungal spore adhesion, we have tested the effect of synthetic zosteric acid (p-(sulfo-oxy) cinnamic acid), a naturally occurring phenolic acid in eelgrass (Zostera marina L.) plants, on spore adhesion and infection in two pathosystems: rice blast caused by Magnaporthe grisea and bean anthracnose caused by Colletotrichum lindemuthianum. We have shown that zosteric acid inhibits spore adhesion to model and host leaf surfaces and that any attached spores fail to develop appressoria, and consequently do not infect leaf cells. Low concentrations of zosteric acid that are effective in inhibiting adhesion are not toxic to either fungus or to the host. The inhibition of spore adhesion in the rice blast pathogen is fully reversible. On plants, zosteric acid reduced (rice) or delayed (bean) lesion development. These results suggest that there is potential for novel and environmentally benign crop protection technologies based on manipulating adhesion.
18942966	ABSTRACT Rice blast, caused by Magnaporthe grisea, is a serious fungal disease of rice worldwide. Currently, evaluation of the fungal pathogenicity and host resistance is mainly based on a disease rating or measurement of blast lesion number and size. However, these methods only provide visual estimation rather than accurate measurement of fungal growth in rice plants. In this study, DNA-based real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and RNA-based northern blot/phosphoimaging analyses were evaluated to quantify M. grisea. Both methods were sensitive, specific, and reproducible and could accurately measure the relative growth and absolute biomass of M. grisea. The real-time PCR analysis showed that the growth of M. grisea in seedling leaves of susceptible cultivars (M201 and Wells) was approximately 46 to 80 times higher than that of a resistant cultivar (Drew) at 4 and 6 days after inoculation. The data obtained from the real-time PCR assays also were consistent with that from northern blot/ phosphoimaging analysis. However, the real-time PCR approach was much faster and more convenient in most cases. Therefore, it is an excellent tool for in planta quantification of M. grisea and can be used for reliable assessment of fungal pathogenicity and host resistance.
18942975	ABSTRACT Although exogenous application of silicon (Si) confers efficient control of rice blast, the probable hypothesis underlying this phenomenon has been confined to that of a mechanical barrier resulting from Si polymerization in planta. However, in this study, we provide the first cytological evidence that Si-mediated resistance to Magnaporthe grisea in rice correlates with specific leaf cell reaction that interfered with the development of the fungus. Accumulation of an amorphous material that stained densely with toluidine blue and reacted positively to osmium tetroxide was a typical feature of cell reaction to infection by M. grisea in samples from Si+ plants. As a result, the extent of fungal colonization was markedly reduced in samples from Si+ plants. In samples from Si- plants, M. grisea grew actively and colonized all leaf tissues. Cytochemi-cal labeling of chitin revealed no difference in the pattern of chitin localization over fungal cell walls of either Si+ or Si- plants at 96 h after inoculation, indicating limited production of chitinases by the rice plant as a mechanism of defense response. On the other hand, the occurrence of empty fungal hyphae, surrounded or trapped in amorphous material, in samples from Si+ plants suggests that phenolic-like compounds or phytoalexins played a primary role in rice defense response against infection by M. grisea. This finding brings new insights into the complex role played by Si in the nature of rice blast resistance.
18943008	ABSTRACT A rice isolate of Magnaporthe grisea collected from China was avirulent on rice cvs. Hattan 3 and 13 other Japanese rice cultivars. The rice cv. Hattan 3 is susceptible to almost all Japanese blast fungus isolates from rice. The genetic basis of avirulence in the Chinese isolate on Japanese rice cultivars was studied using a cross between the Chinese isolate and a laboratory isolate. The segregation of avirulence or virulence was studied in 185 progeny from the cross, and monogenic control was demonstrated for avirulence to the 14 rice cultivars. The resistance gene that corresponds to the avirulence gene (Avr-Hattan 3) is thought to be located at the Pik locus. Resistance and susceptibility in response to the Chinese isolate in F(3) lines of a cross of resistant and susceptible rice cultivars were very similar to the Pik tester isolate, Ken54-20. Random amplified polymorphic DNA markers and restriction fragment length polymorphism markers from genetic maps of the fungus were used to construct a partial genetic map of Avr-Hattan 3. We obtained several flanking markers and one co-segregated marker of Avr-Hattan 3 in the 144 mapping population.
18943047	ABSTRACT Glutinous rice cultivars were sown after every fourth row of a nonglutinous, hybrid cultivar in an additive design. The glutinous cultivars were 35 to 40 cm taller and substantially more susceptible to blast than was the nonglutinous cultivar. Interplanting of glutinous and nonglutinous rice reduced the incidence and severity of panicle blast on the glutinous cultivars by >90%, and on the nonglutinous cultivar by 30 to 40%. Mixing increased the per unit area yield of glutinous rice by 80 to 90% relative to pure stand, whereas yield of the nonglutinous cultivar was essentially unaffected by mixing. To determine whether the different plant heights and canopy structures may contribute to a microclimate that is less favorable to blast infection, we monitored the moisture status of the glutinous cultivars in pure stand and mixture at 0800 h by measuring relative humidity at the height of the glutinous panicles using a swing psychrometer and by visually estimating the percentage of leaf area covered by dew. Averaged over the two seasons, the number of days of 100% humidity at 0800 h was 20.0 and 2.2 for pure stands and mixtures, respectively. The mean percentage of glutinous leaf area covered by dewwas 84 and 36% for the pure stands and mixtures, respectively. Although other mechanisms also were operative, reduced leaf wetness was likely a substantial contributor to panicle blast control in the mixtures.
18943057	ABSTRACT The ability of some phytopathogenic bacterial strains to inhibit the growth of others in mixed infections has been well documented. Here we report that such antagonistic interactions occur between several wild-type strains of the rice bacterial blight pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. In mixed inoculations, a wild-type Philippine strain was found to inhibit the growth of a wild-type Korean strain. Furthermore, a nonpathogenic mutant of the Philippine strain maintained these antagonistic properties. Growth curve analysis indicated that both the wild-type Philippine strain and its nonpathogenic mutant inhibited the growth of the Korean strain 2 days after infection and prior to the onset of disease symptoms. When mixed with the nonpathogenic mutant, 10 out of 18 diverse wild-type X. oryzae pv. oryzae strains did not cause disease. Conversely, three of the strains that were not affected by the nonpathogenic mutant were found to inhibit the growth of both the wild-type and mutant Philippine strains, indicating that antagonism is widespread and strain specific. The observed growth inhibition occurred only in planta and did not correlate with bacteriocin activity in vitro. Antagonistic interactions also were found to affect resistance (R) gene-mediated resistance. The R gene Xa21 was capable of protecting rice plants coinoculated with nonantagonistic virulent and avirulent strains; however, when avirulent strains were coinoculated with virulent antagonistic strains, disease ensued. Taken together, these results indicate that X. oryzae pv. oryzae has evolved strategies to compete with rival strains in a fashion that allows virulent strains to evade R gene-mediated protection even when avirulent strains are present in the inoculum.
18943100	ABSTRACT In the rice blast fungus pathosystem, cerebroside, a compound categorized as a sphingolipid, was found in our previous study to be a non-racespecific elicitor, which elicits defense responses in rice. Here we describe that cerebroside C is produced in diverse strains of Fusarium oxysporum, a common soilborne agent of wilt disease affecting a wide range of plant species. In addition, some type of cerebroside elicitor involving cerebroside A, B, or C was detected in other soilborne phytopathogens, such as Pythium and Botrytis. Treatment of lettuce (Lactuca sativa), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), melon (Cucumis melo), and sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) with cerebroside B resulted in resistance to infection by each pathogenic strain of F. oxysporum. Induction of pathogenesis-related genes and H(2)O(2) production by treatment with cerebroside B were observed in tomato root tissues. The cerebroside elicitor showed no antifungal activity against F. oxysporum in vitro, indicating that the cerebroside elicitor activates defense mechanisms to confer resistance to Fusarium disease. These results suggest that cerebroside functions as a non-race-specific elicitor in a wide range of plant-phytopathogenic fungus interactions. Additionally, cerebroside elicitor serves as a potential biologically derived control agent.
18943101	ABSTRACT The correlation between anaerobic soil conditions and increased resistance to rice blast disease has long been observed without benefit of an adequate explanation. We researched flood depth, dissolved oxygen (DO), and ethylene relative to expression of partial blast resistance in cvs. M-201, Newbonnet, LaGrue, Mars, and Cypress. Cultivar blast index (BI) and flood DO decreased with increasing flood depth. BIs were positively correlated with DO. Total leaf blast lesions were 3.4 and 3.2 times greater in cvs. M-201 and LaGrue growing in a 5.0-mul liter(-1) DO nutrient solution than when growing in a 0.1-mul liter(-1) DO solution. Treatment with 0.25 mM ethephon, which releases ethylene, lowered BIs of Newbonnet, LaGrue, and Cypress growing upland when applied drench, foliar, or foliar-drench. If flooded, BIs of ethephon-treated cultivars were decreased by drench and foliar-drench applications only. BIs of upland plants were unchanged, whereas BIs of analogous flooded plants increased following treatment with 0.31 mM aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG), an ethylene biosynthesis inhibitor. We hypothesize that varying anaerobic conditions mediate production of phytohormones, particularly ethylene, which modify expression of inherent partial blast resistance in these rice cultivars.
18943128	ABSTRACT Genetic analysis for resistance to bacterial blight (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae) of 21 rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars was carried out. These cultivars were divided into two groups based on their reactions to Philippine races of bacterial blight. Cultivars of group 1 were resistant to race 1 and those of group 2 were susceptible to race 1 but resistant to race 2. All the cultivars were crossed with TN1, which is susceptible to all the Philippine races of X. oryzae pv. oryzae. F(1) and F(2) populations of hybrids of group 1 cultivars were evaluated using race 1 and F(1) and F(2) populations of hybrids of group 2 cultivars were evaluated using race 2. All the cultivars showed monogenic inheritance of resistance. Allelic relationships of the genes were investigated by crossing these cultivars with different testers having single genes for resistance. Three cultivars have Xa4, another three have xa5, one has xa8, two have Xa3, eight have Xa10, and one has Xa4 as well as Xa10. Three cultivars have new, as yet undescribed, genes. Nep Bha Bong To has a new recessive gene for moderate resistance to races 1, 2, and 3 and resistance to race 5. This gene is designated xa26(t). Arai Raj has a dominant gene for resistance to race 2 which segregates independently of Xa10. This gene is designated as Xa27(t). Lota Sail has a recessive gene for resistance to race 2 which segregates independently of Xa10. This gene is designated as xa28(t).
18943148	ABSTRACT A selectable marker gene conferring resistance to bialaphos (BI) was introduced into rice blast isolate Y90-71BI and another conferring resistance to blasticidin S (BS) into isolate 3514-R-2BS of Magnaporthe oryzae to demonstrate exchange of DNA. Colonies obtained from co-cultures of these two isolates were resistant to both BI and BS and had both resistance genes as shown by Southern blot analysis of their genomic DNA. Conidia from these BI-BS-resistant isolates had only one nucleus per cell after staining with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). Using flow cytometry, however, these BI-BS-resistant isolates were found to be haploid. Segregation of BI-BS-resistant isolates for pathogenicity (avirulence to virulence) on rice line K59-1 was consistent with a 1:1 ratio, as was segregation for mating type. These BI-BS-resistant isolates were thus apparently derived from parasexual exchange of DNA and the segregation of pathogenicity and of mating type of the parasexual recombinants might correspond to that of the progeny of the offspring of the sexual cross.
18943160	ABSTRACT Digestive cysteine proteinases have been isolated from plant-parasitic nematodes as well as coleopteran and hemipteran insects. Phytocystatins, inhibitors of cysteine proteinases, are found in a number of plants where they may play a role in defense against pathogens and pests. The cDNAs of the phytocystatins from rice, oryzacystatin I (OC-I) and oryzacystatin II (OC-II), were expressed in alfalfa (Medicago sativa) plants under the control of the potato protease inhibitor II (PinII) promoter and the plants were evaluated for resistance to the root-lesion nematode (Pratylenchus penetrans). A PinII-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene was introduced into alfalfa to determine the pattern of gene expression from this promoter. Constitutive GUS expression was observed in leaf and root vascular tissue, and in some plants, expression was observed in leaf mesophyll cells. Mechanical wounding of leaves increased GUS expression approximately twofold over 24 h. Inoculation with root-lesion nematodes resulted in localized GUS expression. Populations of root-lesion nematodes in alfalfa roots from one line containing the PinII::OC-I transgene and one line containing the PinII::OC-II transgene were reduced 29 and 32%, respectively, compared with a transgenic control line. These results suggest that oryzacystatins have the potential to confer increased resistance to the root-lesion nematode in alfalfa.
18943254	Harpin proteins from gram-negative plant-pathogenic bacteria can stimulate hypersensitive cell death (HCD) and pathogen defense as well as enhance growth in plants. Two of these diverse activities clearly are beneficial and may depend on particular functional regions of the proteins. Identification of beneficial and deleterious regions might facilitate the beneficial use of harpin-related proteins on crops without causing negative effects like cell death. Here, we report the identification and testing of nine functional fragments of HpaG(Xooc), a 137-amino-acid harpin protein from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, the pathogen that causes bacterial leaf streak of rice. Polymerase chain reaction-based mutagenesis generated nine proteinaceous fragments of HpaG(Xooc); these caused different responses following their application to Nicotiana tabacum (tobacco) and Oryza sativa (rice). Fragment HpaG62-137, which spans the indicated amino acid residues of the HpaG, induced more intense HCD; in contrast, HpaG10-42 did not cause evident cell death in tobacco. However, both fragments stimulated stronger defense responses and enhanced more growth in rice than the full-length parent protein, HpaG(Xooc). Of the nine fragments, the parent protein and one deletion mutant of HpaG(Xooc) tested, HpaG10-42, stimulated higher levels of rice growth and resulted in greater levels of resistance to X. oryzae pv. oryzae and Magnaporthe grisea. These pathogens cause bacterial leaf blight and rice blast, respectively, the two most important diseases of rice world-wide. HpaG10-42 was more active than HpaG(Xooc) in inducing expression of several genes that regulate rice defense and growth processes and activating certain signaling pathways, which may explain the greater beneficial effects observed from treatment with that fragment. Overall, our results suggest that HpaG10-42 holds promise for practical agricultural use to induce disease resistance and enhance growth of rice.
18943255	Harpins of phytopathogenic bacteria stimulate defense and plant growth in many types of plants, conferring disease resistance and enhanced yield. In a previous study, we characterized nine fragments of the harpin protein HpaG(Xooc) from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola for plant defense elicitation and plant growth stimulation activity relative to the intact protein. In plants grown under controlled conditions, the fragment HpaG10-42 was more active in both regards than HpaG(Xooc). Here, we demonstrate that the activity of HpaG10-42 in rice under field conditions significantly exceeds that of HpaG(Xooc), stimulating resistance to three important diseases and increasing grain yield. We carried out tests in 672 experimental plots with nine cultivars of rice planted at three locations. Application protocols were optimized by testing variations in application rate, frequency, and timing with respect to rice growth stage. Of the concentrations (24, 24, 12, and 6 microg/ml), and number and timing of applications (at one to four different stages of growth) tested, HpaG10-42 at 6 microg/ml applied to plants once at nursery seedling stage and three times in the field was most effective. Bacterial blight, rice blast, and sheath blight were reduced 61.6 and 56.4, 93.6 and 76.0, and 93.2 and 55.0% in indica and japonica cultivars, respectively, relative to controls. Grain yields were 22 to 27% greater. These results are similar to results obtained with typical local management practices, including use of chemicals, to decrease disease severities and increase yield in rice. Our results demonstrate that the HpaG10-42 protein fragment can be used effectively to control diseases and increase yield of this staple food crop.
18943271	ABSTRACT Bacterial blight, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, is a serious disease of rice worldwide. A new dominant gene for bacterial blight resistance in rice, Xa25(t), was identified from Minghui 63, a restorer line for a number of rice hybrids that are widely cultivated in China. This gene conferred resistance to Philippine race 9 (PXO339) of X. oryzae pv. oryzae in both seedling and adult stages. It was mapped to the centromeric region of chromosome 12, 2.5 cM from a disease resistance gene-homologous sequence, NBS109, and 7.3 cM from a restriction fragment length polymorphism marker, G1314. The genomic location of this gene is similar to the previously identified blast resistance genes, Pi-ta and Pi-ta2.
18943348	ABSTRACT During the 1995 wet season, harvested rice seed was collected from farmers' fields at different locations in Iloilo, Philippines. Bacterial isolations from crushed seed yielded 428 isolates. The isolates were characterized by BOX-polymerase chain reaction fingerprinting of total genomic DNA and represented 151 fingerprint types (FPT). Most FPTs were found on a single occasion, although matching fingerprints for isolates from different samples also were found. Identifications were made by cellular fatty acid methyl ester analysis and additional use of Biolog GN/GP MicroPlates and API 20E/50CHE systems. The predominant bacteria were Enterobacteriaceae (25%), Bacillus spp. (22%), and Pseu-domonas spp. (14%). Other bacteria regularly present were identified as Xanthomonas spp., Cellulomonas flavigena, and Clavibacter michiganense. Of the total number of isolated bacteria, 4% exhibited in vitro antifungal activity against Rhizoctonia solani or Pyricularia grisea. Two percent of isolates were pathogens identified as Burkholderia glumae and Burkholderia gladioli. Five percent of isolates induced sheath necrosis on only 50 to 90% of inoculated plants and were related to Bacillus pumilus, Paenibacillus spp., Pseudomonas spp., and Pantoea spp.
18943352	ABSTRACT Rice reflectance was measured to determine the spectral regions most sensitive to panicle blast infection. Reflectance increased in the 430- to 530-, 580- to 680-, and 1,480- to 2,000-nm regions at the dough stage both in the laboratory and the field as the percentage of diseased spikelets increased. The wavebands of the greatest sensitivity were in the visible region, located near 485 and 675 nm. After the yellow-ripe growth stage, near-infrared rather than visible reflectance responded to panicle blast infections. Ratios of rice reflectance were evaluated as indicators of panicle blast. R470/R570 (reflectance at 470 nm divided by reflectance at 570 nm), R520/R675, and R570/R675 decreased significantly as the incidence of panicle blast increased at the dough stage. At the yellow-ripe stage, R550/R970 and R725/R900 were used to estimate panicle blast severity as measured in terms of the percentage of diseased spikelets. According to the simulation that uses ground-based sensor data, airborne multispectral scanners may be effective in detecting the occurrence of panicle blast using a band combination of 530- to 570- and 650- to 700-nm regions at the dough stage.
18943354	ABSTRACT Responses of rice to Magnaporthe grisea and Cochliobolus miyabeanus were compared. In Tetep, a rice cultivar resistant to both fungi, pathogen inoculation rapidly triggered the hypersensitive reaction (HR), resulting in microscopic cell death. In rice cv. Nakdong, susceptible to both pathogens, M. grisea did not cause HR, whereas C. miyabeanus caused rapid cell death similar to that associated with HR, which appeared similar to that observed in cv. Tetep, yet failed to block fungal ramification. Treatment with conidial germination fluid (CGF) from C. miyabeanus induced rapid cell death in both cultivars, suggesting the presence of phytotoxins in CGF. Pretreatment of cv. Nakdong with CGF significantly increased resistance to M. grisea, while the same treatment was ineffective against C. miyabeanus. Similarly, in cv. Nakdong, benzothiadiazole (BTH) significantly increased resistance to M. grisea, but was ineffective against C. miyabeanus. Methyl jasmonate (MeJA) treatment appeared to be ineffective against either fungus. Increased resistance of cv. Nakdong to M. grisea by BTH or CCF treatment was correlated with more rapid induction of three monitored PR genes. Application of MeJA resulted in the expression of JAmyb in cv. Nakdong being induced faster than in untreated plants in response to M. grisea infection. In contrast, the expression pattern of the PR and JAmyb genes in response to C. miyabeanus was nearly identical between cvs. Nakdong and Tetep, and neither BTH nor MeJA treatment significantly modified their expression patterns in response to C. miyabeanus infection. Our results suggest that rice employs distinct mechanisms for its defense against M. grisea versus C. miyabeanus.
18943360	ABSTRACT Striga hermonthica is a parasitic weed endemic to sub-Saharan Africa. It most commonly parasitizes sorghum, maize, pearl millet, and upland rice, lowering yields and affecting the welfare of over 100 million people, principally subsistence farmers. Cereal crops with complete resistance to this pathogen have not been reported. In southern and eastern Africa, where Striga spp. are endemic, 5.6 million ha of wheat are cultivated annually. Despite this, there are only isolated field reports of wheat infected with Striga spp. It is not clear whether this is due to resistance in this cereal or to environmental factors. In this article, we examined the ability of root exudates from five cultivars of wheat (Chablis, Cadenza, Hereward, Riband, and Brigadier) to trigger germination of S. hermonthica seed. A study of the development of S. hermonthica on two cultivars of wheat (Hereward and Chablis) and on a range of ancestral relatives of wheat (Triticum and Aegilops spp.) then was conducted. Last, the effect of Striga spp. on host growth and yield was examined using wheat cv. Chablis and compared with that of a highly susceptible sorghum cultivar (CSH-1). Wheat was able to support the germination, attachment, and subsequent development of Striga spp. All wheat cultivars and ancestral species of modern wheat (Triticum and Aegilops spp.) were susceptible to S. hermonthica. In addition, in wheat, infection severely lowered plant height (-24%) and biomass accumulation (-33%); a small parasite biomass elicited a large host response. In conclusion, wheat is highly susceptible to S. hermonthica and, in light of global climate change, this may have implications for wheat-producing areas of Africa.
18943382	ABSTRACT A total of 540 isolates of Pyricularia grisea from rice in the United States were examined for vegetative compatibility, MGR586 DNA fingerprint diversity, and mating type based on hybridization with the mat1-1 and mat1-2 sexual mating type alleles. The collections contained both archived and contemporary field isolates representative of the known MGR586 lineages and races that occur throughout the United States. Complementary nitrate nonutilizing (nit) or sulfate nonutilizing (sul) mutants were used to assess vegetative compatibility in P. grisea. There was a complete correspondence between vegetative compatibility groups (VCGs), MGR586 lineage, and mating type among 527 contemporary isolates (collected between 1991 and 1997) from Arkansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi, and Texas; all isolates in MGR586 lineages A, B, C, and D belonged to VCGs US-01, US-02, US-03, and US-04, respectively. In addition, all isolates tested in VCGs US-01 and US-04 had the mat1-1 mating type allele whereas those in VCGs US-02 and US-03 had the mat1-2 allele. The strict association of independent markers during this sample period was consistent with a strictly asexual mode of reproduction. However, examination of archived isolates collected in the 1970s and 1980s and contemporary isolates revealed an incongruent relationship between the independent markers. MGR586 C and E isolates were vegetatively compatible which indicated that multiple robust MGR586 delineated lineages could be nested within certain VCGs. Although isolates in lineages C and E were vegetatively compatible, they were of opposite mating type. Several hypotheses, including recombination, could account for the incongruence between the various markers. Among the eight MGR586 lineages (A through H) that occur in the United States, all isolates in lineages A, D, E, G, and H had the mat1-1 allele, whereas isolates in lineages B, C, and F had the mat1-2 allele. Nit mutants can be recovered relatively easy from P. grisea and should allow large numbers of individuals within a population to be assessed for vegetative compatibility. VCGs may prove to be an effective multilocus marker in P. grisea. Thus, VCGs should be a useful means for characterizing genetic structure in populations of the rice blast fungus worldwide, provide a useful genetic framework to assist in interpreting molecular population data, and may provide insight into potential sexual or asexual recombination events.
18943425	ABSTRACT The effect of elevated atmospheric CO(2) concentration on rice blast and sheath blight disease severity was studied in the field in northern Japan for 3 years. With free-air CO(2) enrichment (FACE), rice plants were grown in ambient and elevated (approximately 200 to 280 mumol mol(-1) above ambient) CO(2) concentrations, and were artificially inoculated with consist of Magnaporthe oryzae. Rice plants grown in an elevated CO(2) concentration were more susceptible to leaf blast than those in ambient CO(2) as indicated by the increased number of leaf blast lesions. Plants grown under elevated CO(2) concentration had lower leaf silicon content, which may have contributed to the increased susceptibility to leaf blast under elevated CO(2) concentrations. In contrast to leaf blast, panicle blast severity was unchanged by the CO(2) enrichment under artificial inoculation, whereas it was slightly but significantly higher under elevated CO(2) concentrations in a spontaneous rice blast epidemic. For naturally occurring epidemics of the sheath blight development in rice plants, the percentage of diseased plants was higher under elevated as opposed to ambient CO(2) concentrations. However, the average height of lesions above the soil surface was similar between the treatments. One hypothesis is that the higher number of tillers observed under elevated CO(2) concentrations may have increased the chance for fungal sclerotia to adhere to the leaf sheath at the water surface. Consequently, the potential risks for infection of leaf blast and epidemics of sheath blight would increase in rice grown under elevated CO(2) concentration.
18943541	ABSTRACT Although several reports underscore the importance of silicon (Si) in controlling Magnaporthe grisea on rice, no study has associated this beneficial effect with specific mechanisms of host defense responses against this fungal attack. In this study, however, we provide evidence that higher levels of momilactone phytoalexins were found in leaf extracts from plants inoculated with M. grisea and amended with silicon (Si(+)) than in leaf extracts from inoculated plants not amended with silicon (Si(-)) or noninoculated Si(+) and Si(-) plants. On this basis, the more efficient stimulation of the terpenoid pathway in Si(+) plants and, consequently, the increase in the levels of momilactones appears to be a factor contributing to enhanced rice resistance to blast. This may explain the lower level of blast severity observed on leaves of Si(+) plants at 96 h after inoculation with M. grisea. The results of this study strongly suggest that Si plays an active role in the resistance of rice to blast rather than the formation of a physical barrier to penetration by M. grisea.
18943550	ABSTRACT Fusarium head blight (FHB), or scab, is a destructive disease of small grains caused by members of the Fusarium graminearum species complex, comprised of at least nine distinct, cryptic species. Members of this complex are known to produce mycotoxins including the trichothecenes deoxynivalenol (DON) along with its acetylated derivatives and nivalenol (NIV). In this study, 31 strains, belonging to eight species of this complex and originating from diverse hosts or substrates, were tested for differences in aggressiveness and mycotoxin production. Large variation among strains, both in terms of their aggressiveness and the ability to produce trichothecenes on a susceptible cultivar of wheat was found; variation appears to be a strain-specific rather than species-specific characteristic. While pathogenicity was not influenced by the type of mycotoxin produced, a significant correlation was observed between the amount of the dominant trichothecene (DON and its acetylated forms or NIV) produced by each strain and its level of aggressiveness on wheat. Some isolates also were tested for their ability to infect rice cv. M201, commonly grown in the United States. While tested strains were capable of infecting rice under greenhouse conditions and causing significant amount of disease, no trichothecenes could be detected from the infected rice florets.
18943579	ABSTRACT Partial resistance to rice blast in the Oryza sativa japonica group cv. Chubu 32 is controlled by Pi34, a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) on chromosome 11, and several uncharacterized QTLs. The objectives of the study were (i) high-resolution genetic and physical mapping of Pi34 and (ii) identification of new QTL imparting resistance to rice blast. Chubu 32 was crossed with a susceptible chromosomal segment substitution line (CSSL) of cv. Koshihikari. From 4,012 of segregating individuals, 213 recombinants in the Pi34 region were screened by using polymerase chain reaction-based markers and tested resistance in the field and greenhouse. The Pi34 locus is located in the 54.1-kb region on the genomic sequence of cv. Nipponbare. We constructed a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library of Chubu 32, selected the clone containing Pi34, and sequenced it. The Pi34 locus consequently was located on an interval of 65.3 kb containing 10 predicted open reading frames (ORFs). Two of these ORFs were predicted only in Chubu 32 and encoded transposable elements. The other eight ORFs were found in both Chubu 32 and Nipponbare and one of them, which encoded an unknown protein, showed significantly different amino acid sequences between two cultivars. The new QTL, Piq6(t), was detected on the short arm of chromosome 6 and the genetic distance of flanking markers was 16.9 centimorgans in Nipponbare. Pi34 and Piq6(t) acted additively on resistance to rice blast but the effect of Piq6(t) was relatively small compared with Pi34.
18943602	ABSTRACT Rice dwarf virus (RDV) is characterized by its unusual ability to multiply in both plants and leafhopper vector insects and by its transovarial mode of transmission. Colonies of Nephotettix cincticeps, derived originally from pairs of leafhoppers infected with an ordinary strain of RDV, were maintained for 6 years in the laboratory and were found, at the end of this time, still to harbor RDV. Moreover, the isolate of RDV, designated RDV-I, obtained from these colonies retained the ability to infect rice plants. When we raised leafhoppers separately from eggs that had been placed individually on pieces of water-soaked filter paper and reared them in the presence of healthy rice seedlings, we found that all of these leafhoppers harbored RDV. This observation suggested that RDV-I had been maintained in the leafhoppers by transovarial transmission. Two further observations, namely, the low rate of acquisition of RDV by virus-free insect nymphs on symptomless plants on which viruliferous insects had been reared, and the fact that only 2 to 5% of plants had symptoms when rice seedlings were inoculated via RDV-I-viruliferous insects, confirmed that the maintenance of RDV-I by any other mode of transmission through plants and insects was unlikely. This efficient and long-term maintenance of RDV in a population of viruliferous insects might explain the prolonged duration of rice dwarf disease in the field, once there has been a serious outbreak.
18943608	ABSTRACT Crown rust (Puccinia coronata f. sp. lolli) is a serious fungal foliar disease of perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) and Italian ryegrass (L. multiflorum Lam.), which are important forage and turf species. A number of quantitative trait loci (QTL) for crown rust resistance previously were identified in perennial ryegrass under growth chamber or greenhouse conditions. In this study, we conducted a QTL mapping for crown rust resistance in a three-generation Italian x perennial ryegrass interspecific population under natural field conditions at two locations over 2 years. Through a comparative mapping analysis, we also investigated the syntenic relationships of previously known crown rust resistance genes in other ryegrass germplasms and oat, and genetic linkage between crown rust resistance QTL and three lignin genes: LpOMT1, LpCAD2, and LpCCR1. The interspecific mapping population of 156 progeny was developed from a cross between two Italian x perennial ryegrass hybrids, MFA and MFB. Because highly susceptible reactions to crown rust were observed from all perennial ryegrass clones, including two grandparental clones and eight clones from different pedigrees tested in this study, two grandparent clones from Italian ryegrass cv. Floregon appeared to be a source of the resistance. Two QTL on linkage groups (LGs) 2 and 7 in the resistant parent MFA map were detected consistently regardless of year and location. The others, specific to year and location, were located on LGs 3 and 6 in the susceptible parent MFB map. The QTL on LG2 was likely to correspond to those previously reported in three unrelated perennial ryegrass mapping populations; however, the other QTL on LGs 3, 6, and 7 were not. The QTL on LG7 was closely located in the syntenic genomic region where genes Pca cluster, Pcq2, Pc38, and Prq1b resistant to crown rust (P. coronata f. sp. avenae) in oat (Avena sativa L.) were previously identified. Similarly, the QTL on LG3 was found in a syntenic region with oat genes resistant to crown rust isolates PC54 and PC59. This indicates that the ortholoci for resistance genes to different formae speciales of crown rust might be present between two distantly related grass species, ryegrass and oat. In addition, we mapped four restriction fragment length polymorphism loci for three key ryegrass lignin genes encoding caffeic acid-O-methyltransferase, cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase, and cinnamoyl CoA-reductase on LG7. These loci were within a range of 8 to 17 centimorgans from the QTL on LG7, suggesting no tight linkage between them. The putative ortholoci for those lignin biosynthesis genes were identified on segments of rice (Oryza sativa L.) chromosomes 6 and 8, which are the counterparts of ryegrass LG7. Results from the current study facilitate understanding of crown rust resistance and its relationship with lignin biosynthesis, and also will benefit ryegrass breeders for improving crown rust resistance through marker-assisted selection.
18943653	ABSTRACT Cochliobolus miyabeanus forms a specialized infection structure, an appressorium, to infect its host rice plants. Curtailment of prepenetration development by spermidine and spermine was more evident in appressorium development and germination remained unaffected, whereas putrescine and methylglyoxal-bis-guanyl hydrazone (MGBG) impaired both morphogenetic events. Exogenous calcium nullified the inhibitory effect of MGBG on the prepenetration development in vitro and in vivo and the disease progression. High levels of polyamines were detected in freshly collected conidia, but the amounts were reduced during germination and appressorium formation. MGBG fortified the decrease of polyamines within conidia under development and calcium amendment did not affect the reduction. Hard-surface contact augmented messenger RNA synthesis of calmodulin gene (CmCaM) and protein kinase C (PKC) activity in germinating or appressorium-forming conidia. Calcium restored transcription of CmCaM and upregulation of PKC activity suppressed by MGBG. Taken together, fine-tuning of intracellular polyamine transition is indispensable for the conidial germination and appressorium formation in C. miyabeanus. Biochemical and molecular analyses revealed that the MGBG-acting site or sites are upstream of Ca(2+)-dependent signaling pathways regulating prepenetration morphogenesis of C. miyabeanus causing rice brown leaf spot.
18943659	ABSTRACT Isolates of Rhizoctonia spp. were obtained from rice in India during 2000-2003. Characterization by conventional techniques and polymerase chain reaction showed that from 110 isolates, 99 were R. solani and 11 were R. oryzae-sativae. Of 99 isolates identified as R. solani, 96 were AG1-IA, 1 was AG1-IB, and 2 were AG1-IC. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analyzes were used to determine genetic relationships in Rhizoctonia pathogen populations collected from different geographic regions. Cluster analysis based on the AFLP data separated isolates belonging to the three different intraspecific groups of R. solani AG1 and differentiated R. solani from R. oryzae-sativae. Analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) revealed that geographic region was the dominant factor determining population structure of R. solani AG1-1A; host cultivar had no significant effect. Pathogenicity tests on Oryza sativa cv. Zenith revealed that isolates of R. solani AG1-1A and AG1-1B were more virulent than R. solani AG1-IC and R. oryzae-sativae isolates.
18943678	ABSTRACT Sheath blight is one of the most important and intractable diseases of rice (Oryza sativa) where limited control has been achieved using traditional approaches. Quantitative inheritance, extraneous traits, and environmental factors confound genetic analysis of host resistance. A method was developed to isolate and utilize a phytotoxin from Rhizoctonia solani to investigate the genetics of sheath blight susceptibility. Infiltration of the toxin preparation into plant leaves induced necrosis in rice, maize, and tomato. Using 17 rice cultivars known to vary in sheath blight resistance, genotypes were identified that were sensitive (tox-S) and insensitive (tox-I) to the toxin, and a correlation (r = 0.66) between toxin sensitivity and disease susceptibility was observed. Given the broad host range of R. solani, genotypes of host species may be both tox-S and tox-I. A total of 154 F(2) progeny from a cross between Cypress (tox-S) and Jasmine 85 (tox-I) segregated in a 9:7 ratio for tox-S/tox-I, indicating an epistatic interaction between two genes controls sensitivity to the toxin in rice. This work provides the means to genetically map toxin sensitivity genes and eliminate susceptible genotypes when developing sheath blight-resistant rice cultivars.
18943737	The recent observance of Fusarium fujikuroi, the causal agent of Bakanae disease of rice, in California provides a unique opportunity to assess the population diversity of an introduced pathogen in a new environment. We collected 172 isolates of this pathogen between 2000 and 2003 from California rice and two from water grass (Echinochloa spp.). Pathogenicity of F. fujikuroi was demonstrated on early water grass (E. oryzoides) and barnyard grass (E. crus-galli) indicating that weed control should be part of Bakanae management programs. Both mating types and six unique amplified fragment length polymorphism haplotypes corresponding to six identified vegetative compatibility groups were detected. The two most frequently isolated haplotypes encompassed 94% of the collected isolates, suggesting that clonal reproduction dominates. Coefficients of similarity between the unique haplotypes ranged from 0.94 to 0.98, and indicate that there is very little genotypic variation in the F. fujikuroi population in California. The near fixation of the MAT-1 idiomorph (observed ratio 170 MAT-1:4 MAT-2), is consistent with a hypothesis of predominant or exclusive asexual reproduction. The low level of introduced genotypic diversity, in conjunction with the asexual reproductive strategy of this population will slow evolutionary processes, including adaptation to the California environment.
18943742	To test the hypothesis that silicon (Si) confers resistance against appressorial penetration of the rice blast fungus, the proportion of appressorial penetration into the leaf epidermis to total appressoria formed was compared among rice plants amended with various rates of silica gel to those plants nonamended. The amounts of Si in the youngest leaves were consistent with the amounts of silica gel applied to the rice plants. Relative Si levels on the adaxial surface of leaves as detected by energy dispersive X-ray analysis also increased with the amounts of silica gel applied. Based on light microscopic observation of the adaxial surface of rice leaves, the proportion of appressorial penetration was reduced by increasing amounts of silica gel applied and increased with the length of period after spray inoculation. Consequently, these results strongly support the hypothesis and suggest that Si in the leaf epidermis may confer resistance against appressorial penetration. Meanwhile, the number of lesions per leaf also decreased with the amount of Si applied, while only a certain part of penetrated appressoria could become sporulating susceptible lesions. This suggests that Si also confers physiological resistance against blast infection after the penetration.
18943752	ABSTRACT Developing resistant cultivars requires an understanding of the dynamics of the pathogen populations as well as the genetics of host resistance. Bacterial leaf blight (BB), caused by the vascular pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, has become one of the most devastating diseases of rice. We demonstrate here the quantitative analyses of responses of near-isogenic lines carrying various BB resistance (R) genes and R-gene combinations against 16 X. oryzae pv. oryzae isolates representing Korean BB pathotypes. The estimated main effects of each R gene against the 16 isolates identified prominent differences in BB pathotypes between Korea and other countries. Three major aspects of our quantitative observations and statistical analysis are (i) strong and broad resistance of xa5; (ii) independent and additive genetic actions of Xa4, xa5, and Xa21 under digenic or trigenic status; and (iii) a strong quantitative complementation effect contributed by the functional alleles of Xa4 and Xa21. We conclude that the pyramid line containing genes Xa4, xa5, and Xa21 would be the most promising and valuable genotype for improving Korean japonica cultivars for BB resistance.
18943766	ABSTRACT Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight of rice, was subjected to transposon mutagenesis to generate mutants defective in pathogenicity. A novel mutant 74M913 was attenuated in virulence but retained its ability to cause the hypersensitive response in leaf blight-resistant rice and tomato. Cloning and sequence analysis revealed that the transposon in 74M913 was inserted in a gene homologous to the phosphoglucose isomerase (pgi) gene of X. axonopodis pv. citri. Growth of the mutant in a synthetic medium containing fructose or xylose as a sole carbohydrate source was much reduced, indicating the transposon disrupted pgi function. The interaction between expression of pgi and hypersensitive response and pathogenicity (hrp) genes was investigated because we had demonstrated previously that expression of hrp genes of X. oryzae pv. oryzae is induced in a synthetic medium containing xylose. However, pgi and the hrp gene (hrcU) were expressed independently. This study suggests that PGI is involved in pathogenicity of X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
18943771	ABSTRACT The Chinese native cv. Q14 expresses a high level of resistance to many isolates of Pyricularia grisea collected from Japan, Thailand, and China. Q14 was crossed to an indica-susceptible cultivar, Q61. To rapidly determine the chromosomal location of the major resistance gene present in the cultivar, a linkage analysis using microsatellite markers was performed in the F(2) population segregating 3R:1S (resistant/susceptible) through bulked-segregant analysis (BSA) in combination with recessiveclass analysis (RCA). A total of 189 microsatellite markers selected from each chromosome equally (with approximately 10 centimorgans) were tested with the BSA approach. Only two markers, RM151 and RM259, located on chromosome 1 showed positive and negative polymorphisms, respectively, for a resistance gene segregating in the population. To confirm the polymorphic markers, a total of 155 viable susceptible individuals were tested with the RCA approach. The markers RM151 and RM259 were found to link to the resistance gene with recombination frequencies of 11.9 +/- 2.8% and 9.7 +/- 8.0%, respectively. For further characterization of the resistance gene, 3 resistance genes mapped on chromosome 1, as well as 15 major resistance genes that might be employed in the breeding program, were selected for differential tests with 85 Chinese isolates. The resistance gene identified in this research conveys reactions distinct from those conditioned by the 18 resistance genes. This new resistance gene tentatively was designated Pi27(t).
18943780	ABSTRACT A genetic map including three avirulence (Avr) genes, AvrPik, AvrPiz, and AvrPiz-t, was constructed in a genetic cross of two rice field isolates, 84R-62B and Y93-245c-2. The chromosomal locations of the Avr genes were determined by using selected markers to probe Southern blots of the parental chromosomes that had been separated by contour-clamped homogenous electric fields electrophoresis. Electrophoretic karyotyping showed that both parental isolates 84R-62B and Y93-245c-2 contained seven chromosomes greater than 3.5 megabases (Mb) in size and 84R-62B possessed a small chromosome of approximately 1.6 Mb. The linkage groups containing AvrPiz and AvrPiz-t were assigned to chromosomes 3 and 7, respectively. Some markers from the linkage group that contained AvrPik hybridized with chromosome 1 and the 1.6-Mb chromosome, yet all of the cloned RAPD markers that were closely linked to AvrPik hybridized exclusively to the 1.6-Mb chromosome in 84R-62B, the parent that possesses AvrPik. Thus, we conclude that AvrPik is located on the 1.6-Mb chromosome in 84R-62B.
18943790	ABSTRACT A major leaf rust (Puccinia triticina) resistance quantitative trait locus (QTL) (QLrP.sfr-7DS) previously has been described on chromosome 7DS in the winter wheat (Triticum aestivum) cv. Forno. It was detected in a population of single-seed descent (SSD) lines derived from the cross Arina x Forno. QLrP.sfr-7DS conferred a durable and slow-rusting resistance phenotype, co-segregated with a QTL for leaf tip necrosis (LTN) and was mapped close to Xgwm295 at a very similar location as the adult plant leaf rust resistance gene Lr34 found in some spring wheat lines. Here, we describe the validation of this QTL by mapping it to the same chromosomal region close to Xgwm295 on chromosome 7DS in a population of SSD lines from the winter wheat x spelt (T. spelta) cross Forno x Oberkulmer. In both populations, the log of the likelihood ratio curves for leaf rust resistance and LTN peaked at identical or very similar locations, indicating that both traits are due to the same gene. We have improved the genetic map in the target region of QLrP.sfr-7DS using microsatellite and expressed sequence tag (EST) markers. Two EST loci (Xsfr.BF473324 and Xsfr.BE493812) define a genetic interval of 7.6 centimorgans containing QLrP.sfr-7DS, a considerably more precise genetic location for this QTL than previously described both in spring and winter wheat. The identified genetic interval is physically located in the distal 39% of chromosome 7DS. Single-marker analysis identified Xsfr.BF473324 and Xgwm1220 as the most informative loci for QLrP.sfr-7DS and QLtn.sfr-7DS. In the rice genome, the two ESTs flanking the QLrP.sfr-7DS/QLtn.sfr-7DS chromosomal segment in wheat are conserved on chromosome 6S in a region colinear with wheat chromosome 7DS. There, they define a physical region of three rice bacterial artificial chromosomes spanning approximately 300 kb.
18943898	ABSTRACT A simulation study was conducted to assess the current and prospective efficiency of rice pest management and develop research priorities for lowland production situations in tropical Asia. Simulation modeling with the RICEPEST model provided the flexibility required to address varying production situations and diverse pest profiles (bacterial leaf blight, sheath blight, brown spot, leaf blast, neck blast, sheath rot, white heads, dead hearts, brown plant-hoppers, insect defoliators, and weeds). Operational definitions for management efficacy (injury reduction) and management efficiency (yield gain) were developed. This approach enabled the modeling of scenarios pertaining to different pest management strategies within the agroecological contexts of rice production and their associated pest injuries. Rice pests could be classified into two broad research priority-setting categories with respect to simulated yield losses and management efficiencies. One group, including weeds, sheath blight, and brown spot, consists of pests for which effective pest management tools need to be developed. The second group consists of leaf blast, neck blast, bacterial leaf blight, and brown plant-hoppers, for which the efficiency of current management methods is to be maintained. Simulated yield losses in future production situations indicated that a new type of rice plant with high-harvest index and high-biomass production ("New Plant Type") was more vulnerable to pests than hybrid rice. Simulations also indicated that the impact of deployment of host resistance (e.g., through genetic engineering) was much larger when targeted against sheath blight than when targeted against stem borers. Simulated yield losses for combinations of production situations and injury profiles that dominate current lowland rice production in tropical Asia ranged from 140 to 230 g m(-2). For these combinations, the simulated efficiency of current pest management methods, expressed in terms of relative yield gains, ranged from 0.38 to 0.74. Overall, the analyses indicated that 120 to 200 x 10(6) tons of grain yield are lost yearly to pests over the 87 x 10(6) ha of lowland rice in tropical Asia. This also amounts to the potential gain that future pest management strategies could achieve, if deployed.
18943899	ABSTRACT Antisera raised against phloem-limited phytoplasmas generally react only with the phytoplasma strain used to produce the antigen. There is a need for an antiserum that reacts with a variety of phytoplasmas. Here, we show that an antiserum raised against the SecA membrane protein of onion yellows phytoplasma, which belongs to the aster yellows 16S-group, detected eight phytoplasma strains from four distinct 16S-groups (aster yellows, western X, rice yellow dwarf, and elm yellows). In immunoblots, approximately 96-kDa SecA protein was detected in plants infected with each of the eight phytoplasmas. Immunohistochemical staining of thin sections prepared from infected plants was localized in phloem tissues. This antiserum should be useful in the detection and histopathological analysis of a wide range of phytoplasmas.
18943978	ABSTRACT The Pi-ta gene in rice prevents the infection by Magnaporthe grisea strains containing the AVR-Pita avirulence gene. The presence of Pi-ta in rice cultivars was correlated completely with resistance to two major pathotypes, IB-49 and IC-17, common in the U.S. blast pathogen population. The inheritance of resistance to IC-17 was investigated further using a marker for the resistant Pi-ta allele in an F(2) population of 1,345 progeny from a cross of cv. Katy with experimental line RU9101001 possessing and lacking, respectively, the Pi-ta resistance gene. Resistance to IC-17 was conferred by a single dominant gene and Pi-ta was not detected in susceptible individuals. A second F(2) population of 377 individuals from a reciprocal cross between Katy and RU9101001 was used to verify the conclusion that resistance to IC-17 was conferred by a single dominant gene. In this cross, individuals resistant to IC-17 also were resistant to IB-49. The presence of Pi-ta and resistance to IB-49 also was correlated with additional crosses between 'Kaybonnet' and 'M-204', which also possess and lack Pi-ta, respectively. A pair of primers that specifically amplified a susceptible pi-ta allele was developed to verify the absence of Pi-ta. We suggest that Pi-ta is responsible for resistance to IB-49 and IC-17 and that both races contain AVR-Pita genes.
18943979	ABSTRACT Pi7(t), a dominant blast resistance gene derived from the rice cultivar Moroberekan, confers complete resistance against the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea. Pi7(t) previously was positioned on chromosome 11 by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) mapping of a recombinant inbred line population. One derivative of this population, recombinant inbred line (RIL)29, was designated as the representative line for Pi7(t). A segregating F2 population was created from RIL29 in order to determine the location of Pi7(t). The new mapping data indicate a position for Pi7(t) 30 centimorgans distal to the original location. Pi7(t) shares a common position with the previously mapped Pi1 M. grisea resistance gene. RIL29 carries DNA not derived from either parent used to create the RIL population at the newly assigned Pi7(t) locus. RFLP analysis has identified a possible donor source.
18943995	ABSTRACT Gray leaf spot of perennial ryegrass (prg) (Lolium perenne), caused by the fungus Pyricularia grisea (teleomorph = Magnaporthe grisea), has rapidly become the most destructive of all turf grass diseases in the United States. Fungal isolates from infected prg were analyzed with several molecular markers to investigate their relationship to P. grisea strains found on other hosts. All of the molecular markers used in this study revealed that isolates from prg are very distantly related to those found on crabgrass. Fingerprinting with MGR586 (Pot3) revealed zero to three copies of this transposon in the prg pathogens, distinguishing them from isolates pathogenic to rice, which typically have more than 50 copies of this element. RETRO5, a newly identified retroelement in P. grisea, was present at a copy number of >50 in isolates from rice and Setaria spp. but only six to eight copies were found in the isolates from prg. The MAGGY retrotransposon was unevenly distributed in the prg pathogens, with some isolates lacking this element, some possessing six to eight copies, and others having 10 to 30 copies. These results indicated that the P. grisea isolates causing gray leaf spot are distinct from those found on crabgrass, rice, or Setaria spp. This conclusion was supported by an unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic average cluster analysis of single-copy restriction fragment length polymorphism haplo-types. Fingerprints obtained with probes from the Pot2 and MGR583 transposons revealed that the prg pathogens are very closely related to isolates from tall fescue, and that they share similarity with isolates from wheat. However, the wheat pathogens had fewer copies of these elements than those found on prg. Therefore, I conclude that P. grisea isolates commonly found on other host plant species did not cause gray leaf spot epidemics on prg. Instead, the disease appears to be caused by a P. grisea population that is specific to prg and tall fescue.
18944065	ABSTRACT Using isolates collected over 2 decades, we determined the population structure and dynamics of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, in Korea at both the genotypic and phenotypic levels. Pathotype analysis on 6,315 isolates collected from 328 rice cultivars from 1981 to 2000 revealed the presence of a total of 91 pathotypes. Among these 91 patho-types, nine dominated, comprising 76.5% of the isolates. The expected number of pathotypes (corrected for sample size) increased significantly during the course of this study. On average, six (ranging from 0 to 20) new commercial cultivars were introduced annually between 1981 and 1998. However, the overall cultivar diversity, estimated using the Shannon index, was low. Most of the new cultivars were not planted to a large area because the seven most common cultivars each year occupied over 70% of the rice-cultivated area. The frequencies of the nine dominant patho-types from these seven cultivars were highly correlated with those from the entire set of cultivars. To understand genetic diversity within and between pathotypes, 176 isolates collected from 1984 to 1999 were randomly sampled and analyzed by DNA fingerprinting. High similarities were observed among isolates; overall similarities were greater than 63% in combined MGR586 and MAGGY DNA fingerprints. Unlike most other populations of M. grisea, DNA fingerprints showed no clear lineage structure. No groups were supported by bootstrap values greater than 10%. Furthermore, there was no significant correlation between DNA fingerprint similarities and pathotypes. Genetic similarity was significantly greater (P < 0.001) within years than between years, although the difference was small. Our data suggest that M. grisea populations in Korea have been mostly dominated by a single clonal lineage. We cannot conclude from these data that selection by the host population has been a major force in the evolution of M. grisea in Korea.
18944075	ABSTRACT The resistance gene Pi-ta protects rice crops against the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea expressing the avirulence gene AVR-Pita in a gene-for-gene manner. Pi-ta, originally introgressed into japonica rice from indica origin, was previously isolated by positional cloning. In this study, we report the nucleotide sequence of a 5,113-base pair region containing a japonica susceptibility pi-ta allele, which has overall 99.6% nucleotide identity to the indica Pi-ta allele conferring resistance. The intron region shows the levels of sequence diversity that typically differentiate genes from indica and japonica rices, but the other gene regions show less diversity. Sequences of the Pi-ta allele from resistant cultivars Katy and Drew from the southern United States are identical to the resistance Pi-ta sequence. Sequences from susceptible cultivars El Paso 144 and Cica 9 from Latin America define a third susceptibility haplotype. This brings the total number of Pi-ta haplotypes identified to four, including the resistance allele and three susceptibility alleles. The Pi-ta locus shows low levels of DNA polymorphism compared with other analyzed R genes. Understanding the natural diversity at the Pi-ta locus is important for designing specific markers for incorporation of this R gene into rice-breeding programs.
18944079	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is the causal agent of rice bacterial blight, a destructive rice disease worldwide. The gene xa5 provides race-specific resistance to X. oryzae pv. oryzae, and encodes the small subunit of transcription factor IIA. How xa5 functions in bacterial blight resistance is not well understood, and its recessive gene action is disputed. Here we show that xa5 is inherited in a completely recessive manner and the susceptible allele Xa5 is fully dominant. In accordance with this, bacterial growth in heterozygous and homozygous susceptible lines is not significantly different. Further, one allele of Xa5 is sufficient to promote disease in previously resistant plants; additional copies are not predictive of increased lesion length. Surprisingly, a resistant nearly isogenic line (NIL) of an indica variety sustains high levels of bacterial populations compared to the susceptible NIL, yet the resistant plants restrict symptom expression. In contrast, in japonica NILs, bacterial population dynamics differ in resistant and susceptible genotypes. However, both resistant indica and japonica plants delay bacterial movement down the leaf. These results support a model in which xa5-mediated recessive resistance is the result of restricted bacterial movement, but not restricted multiplication.
18944192	A previous study of the diversity and population structure of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae, over a 20-year period in Korea, found novel fingerprint haplotypes each year, and the authors hypothesized that populations might experience annual bottlenecks. Based on this model, we predicted that M. oryzae populations would have little or no genetic differentiation among geographic regions because rice blast is commonly found throughout Korea each year and M. oryzae would have to disperse from small populations surviving annually between rice crops. To test this hypothesis, we sampled M. oryzae from rice fields in eight provinces in Korea in a single year (1999). In four provinces, we sampled from a set of rice cultivars commonly grown in commercial fields (group I); because of low disease incidence in four other provinces, we could not sample from commercial fields and instead sampled from scouting plots of different cultivars set up for detecting new pathotypes of M. oryzae (group II). All isolates were genotyped with DNA fingerprint probes MGR586 and MAGGY, a telomere-linked gene family member TLH1, the PWL2 host specificity gene and mating type. Fingerprint haplotypes clustered into two distinct lineages corresponding to the two sets of cultivars (groups I and II), with haplotype similarities of 71% between lineages and >76% within lineages. Isolates from the same cultivar within group I were genetically differentiated among locations, and isolates within the same location were differentiated among cultivars. Differentiation for TLH1 and PWL2 was significant (P < 0.03), but not as strong as for fingerprint markers. Similar analyses were not possible among group II isolates because too few isolates were available from any one cultivar. All isolates were in the same mating type, Mat1-1, ruling out sexual reproduction as a source of novel haplotypes. When the 1999 samples were compared with the historical samples from the previous study, haplotypes of group I formed a separate cluster, while those of group II clustered with haplotypes from the historical sample. Altogether, geographic subdivision, monomorphism of mating type, and correlation of haplotypes to sets of cultivars are not consistent with the hypothesis of repeated turnover of haplotypes. Instead, the previous correlations of haplotypes to year might have been caused by inadequate sampling of haplotypes each year, highlighting the need for studies of population genetics to be conducted with systematic samples collected to address specific questions.
18944205	ABSTRACT The witches'-broom disease, caused by the basidiomycete Crinipellis perniciosa, is the most limiting factor for cacao cultivation in Brazil. Trichoderma stromaticum is a mycoparasite of the witches'-broom pathogen of cacao that is currently being applied in the field to manage the disease in Bahia State, Brazil. In this work, molecular and traditional methods were used to study the genetic and biological diversity of this mycoparasite. Ninety-one isolates, mostly collected from farms not sprayed with the fungus, were analyzed by amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP), which showed that two genetic groups (I and II) of T. stromaticum occur in Bahia State. This classification of T. stromaticum into two distinct AFLP groups was also in agreement with several other characteristics, including growth on agar media at different temperatures and sporulation on infected stem segments (broom pieces) and rice grains. Group II favors higher temperatures compared with group I. The genetic and biological differences of the isolates, however, were not evident in field experiments, where sporulation was evaluated on the surface of brooms under natural conditions. Our results show that there is considerable genetic and biological diversity within T. stromaticum in Bahia and other cacao-growing regions of South America that are affected by the witches'-broom disease. This diversity could be explored in the development of efficient biological control agents against the disease. Factors that may affect the application and performance of this biocontrol agent in the field, such as sporulation on rice substrate and on the brooms and growth at various temperatures, are discussed.
18944220	ABSTRACT Locations of silicon accumulation in rice leaves and its possible association with resistance to rice blast were investigated by electron microscopy and X-ray microanalysis. A blast-susceptible cultivar, Jinmi, and a partially resistant cultivar, Hwaseong, were grown under a hydroponic culture system with modified Yoshida's nutrient solution containing 0, 50, 100, and 200 ppm of silicon. Electron-dense silicon layers were frequently found beneath the cuticle in epidermal cell walls of silicon-treated plants. Increasing levels of silicon were detected in the outer regions of epidermal cell walls. Silicon was present mainly in epidermal cell walls, middle lamellae, and intercellular spaces within subepidermal tissues. Furthermore, silicon was prevalent throughout the leaf surface, with relatively small deposition on stomatal guard cells in silicon-treated plants. Silicon accumulation and epidermal cell wall thickness in leaves were greater in cv. Jinmi than in cv. Hwaseong. However, the thickness ratios of the silicon layers to epidermal cell walls were greater in cv. Hwaseong (53.25 to 93.28%) than in cv. Jinmi (36.58 to 66.54%). Leaf blast severity was lower in cv. Hwaseong than in cv. Jinmi and was significantly reduced in silicon-treated plants of both cultivars. These results suggest that silicon-induced cell wall fortification of rice leaves may be closely associated with enhanced host resistance to blast.
18944279	ABSTRACT The application of silicon (Si) fertilizers reduces the severity of blast, caused by Magnaporthe grisea, in irrigated and upland rice; however, little research has been conducted to examine the epidemiological and etiological components of this reduction. Four cultivars of rice with differential susceptibilities to race IB-49 of M. grisea were fertilized with three rates of a calcium silicate fertilizer and inoculated with the pathogen to test the effects of Si on the following components of resistance to blast: incubation period, latent period, infection efficiency, lesion size, rate of lesion expansion, sporulation per lesion, and diseased leaf area. For each cultivar, the incubation period was lengthened by increased rates of Si, and the numbers of sporulating lesions, lesion size, rate of lesion expansion, diseased leaf area, and number of spores per lesion were reduced. Lesion size and sporulation per lesion were lowered by 30 to 45%, and the number of sporulating lesions per leaf and diseased leaf area were significantly reduced at the highest rate of Si. The net effect of Si on these components of resistance is an overall reduction in the production of conidia on plants infected with M. grisea, thereby slowing the epidemic rate of blast.
18944307	ABSTRACT A Triticum isolate (pathogenic on wheat) of Magnaporthe oryzae was crossed with an Oryza isolate (pathogenic on rice) to elucidate mechanisms of their parasitic specificity on wheat. When the pathogenicity of their F (1) cultures (hybrids between a Triticum isolate and an Oryza isolate) was tested on wheat, avirulent and virulent cultures segregated in a 7:1 ratio. This result suggests that three loci are involved in avirulence of the Oryza isolate on wheat. One of the three loci conditioned papilla formation, whereas the others conditioned the hypersensitive reaction. Allelism tests revealed that the locus conditioning papilla formation is Pwt2 while one of the two loci conditioning the hypersensitive reaction is Pwt1. The other locus conditioning the hypersensitive reaction was different from any other known loci and, therefore, was designated as Pwt5.
18944325	ABSTRACT The rice bacterial blight resistance gene, Xa22(t), provides resistance to a broad spectrum of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae isolates. Here, we localize the gene to a small 100-kb fragment of chromosome 11 by a combination of genetic recombination analysis and physical mapping. Mapping was done with two F(2) populations from the cross between Zhachanglong and Zhenzhuai. The first population consisted of 248 random individuals and 404 highly susceptible individuals selected from an F(2) population of more than 2,000 individuals and was used to construct a linkage map around the Xa22(t) locus. For the second F(2) population, 7,680 plants were examined with simple sequence repeat markers flanking the Xa22(t) locus to identify recombinants useful for fine-genetic mapping. Two large-insert bacterial artificial chromasome (BAC) libraries (from cvs. Teqing and Minghui63) were screened with a marker (R1506) which cosegregated perfectly with Xa22(t) in the first population. Restriction mapping of the resulting BAC clones enabled a physical map of the area to be constructed, and subclones from the BAC clones provided additional restriction fragment length polymorphism probes which could be placed on the fine-structure genetic map using the recombinants from the second mapping population. The Xa22(t) locus was mapped to a approximately 100-kb interval delimited by the R1506 marker and a subclone from the M3H8 BAC clone.
18944334	ABSTRACT The objective of this study was to determine the effect of silicon (Si) and rice growth stages on tissue susceptibility to sheath blight (Rhizoctonia solani Kühn) under controlled conditions. Rice plants (cv. Rio Formoso) were grown in pots containing low-Si soil amended with Si at 0, 0.48, 0.96, 1.44, and 1.92 g pot(-1) and inoculated with R. solani at the following days after emergence: 45 (four-leaf stage), 65 (eight-leaf stage), 85 (tillering), 117 (booting), and 130 (panicle exsertion). For plants inoculated with R. solani at all growth stages, Si concentration in straw increased as rate of Si increased from 0 to 1.92 g pot(-1). Concentration of calcium in the straw did not differ among plant growth stages. Although incubation period was not affected by the amount of Si added to the soil, this variable was shorter at booting and panicle exsertion stages. As the rates of Si increased in the soil, the total number of sheath blight lesions on sheaths and total area under the relative lesion extension curve decreased at all plant growth stages. The severity of sheath blight was lower at booting and panicle exsertion stages as the rates of Si increased in the soil. In general, plants grown in Si-nonamended pots and inoculated with R. solani were more vulnerable to infection at all growth stages, but especially at 45 days after emergence. Plant dry weights for inoculated plants increased as the Si rates increased from 0 to 1.92 g pot(-1). The greatest dry weight increases occurred for plants inoculated at booting and panicle exsertion stages. Si fertilization is a promising method for controlling sheath blight in areas where soil is Si deficient and when cultivars that exhibit an acceptable level of resistance to sheath blight are not available for commercial use.
18944372	ABSTRACT Magnaporthe grisea (anamorph = Pyricularia grisea) causes blast on rice (Oryza sativa) and gray leaf spot on turfgrass. Gray leaf spot is a serious disease on St. Augustinegrass (Stenotaphrum secundatum), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne), and tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea). Virulence assays performed in this study revealed that M. grisea collected from rice could also cause disease on St. Augustinegrass and tall fescue. One rice isolate, Che86061, caused similar disease reactions on susceptible cultivars of rice and St. Augustinegrass and an incompatible interaction on resistant cultivars of both species. To explore whether similar defense-related genes are expressed in rice and St. Augustinegrass, a rice cDNA library was screened using pooled cDNAs derived from M. grisea-infected St. Augustinegrass. Thirty rice EST (expressed sequence tag) clones showing differential expression in St. Augustinegrass following M. grisea inoculation were identified and classified into six putative functional groups. Northern blot analyses of seven EST clones that collectively represented each putative functional group confirmed that the expression of five out of seven EST clones was similar in both rice and St. Augustinegrass. This study represents one of the first attempts to use a broad-scale genomic approach and resources of a model monocot system to study defense gene expression in St. Augustinegrass following M. grisea infection.
18944410	ABSTRACT The reniform nematode, Rotylenchulus reniformis, is a serious threat to cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) production in the United States, causing an annual loss of about $80 million. The objective of this study was to isolate fungi from eggs of R. reniformis and select potential biocontrol agents for R. reniformis on cotton. We focused on the fungus Pochonia chlamydosporia because it suppresses root-knot and cyst nematodes and because preliminary data indicated that it was present in Arkansas cotton fields. Soil samples were collected from six cotton fields in Jefferson County, Arkansas. A total of 117 isolates of the nematophagous fungus P. chlamydosporia were obtained. In an in vitro test, 105 of the 117 isolates parasitized fewer than 15% of R. reniformis eggs, but 12 isolates parasitized between 16 and 35% of the eggs. These 12 isolates produced from 6.8 x 10(4) to 6.9 x 10(5) chlamydospores per gram of medium in vitro, and chlamydospore production was similar on rice grain and corn grain media. In two greenhouse experiments, a single application of isolate 37 (5,000 chlamydospores per gram of soil) significantly reduced the numbers of R. reniformis on cotton roots and in soil. The three isolates (37, 26, and 14) that parasitized the most eggs in vitro were also the most effective in suppressing numbers of R. reniformis and in increasing cotton growth in the greenhouse.
18944481	ABSTRACT Chemical fungicides are a major method of control for plant diseases in spite of potential negative effects on the environment and the appearance of resistant strains. Development of new chemical fungicides has been largely dependent upon in vivo efficacy tests in the greenhouse or in fields, which is in contrast to target-oriented in vitro screening systems widely used in the pharmaceutical field. To establish a target-site-specific screening system for antifungal compounds, specific inhibition on appressorium formation of the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea was employed. For many plant-pathogenic fungi, including M. grisea, appressorium formation is an essential step to infect host plants. Among 1,000 culture filtrates of members of the class Actinomycetes and fungi, five (A5005, A5008, A5314, A5387, and A5397) from the class Actinomycetes showed differential inhibitory effects on appressorium formation of M. grisea in a dosage-dependent manner. Three (A5005, A5314, and A5387) of these were further fractionated into ethyl acetate and water fractions. The ethyl acetate fraction of A5005 and both the ethyl acetate and water fractions from A5314 and A5387 inhibited appressorium formation, while conidial germination remained little affected. Inhibition of appressorium formation by the ethyl acetate or water fraction was reversed by the exogenous addition of cyclic AMP. Significantly reduced numbers of conidia with appressoria were observed on rice leaves in the presence of culture filtrates. Furthermore, these culture filtrates also exhibited significant disease control of rice blast in the greenhouse. This rapid and target-oriented screening system could be adopted to screen candidate compounds for rice blast control and could be applicable for other appressorium-forming, plant-pathogenic fungi.
18944542	ABSTRACT Thirty isolates of P. griseacollected from rice during a blast epidemic in 1995 in the high (1,800 to 2,600 m) and middle (1,200 to 1,800 m) elevations of Bhutan and 80 isolates collected from one rice cultivar from two high- and two mid-elevation sites in 1996 were analyzed for virulence. Differential varieties were indica CO39, with five near-isogenic lines (NILs) for resistance genes in the genetic background of CO39, and japonica Lijiangxintuanheigu (LTH), with five NILs for LTH. Twelve selected Bhutanese landraces also were studied. In addition, 10 blast nurseries consisting of the NIL sets, important local landraces, and representatives of international differential groups were established in the 1996 and 1997 growing seasons in the mid- and high-elevation agroecological zones. The 110 isolates were differentiated into 53 pathotypes based on the 2 NIL sets. Thirteen isolates were avirulent on all of the NILs but were compatible with some landraces. Several isolates were able to attack one of the NILs of CO39 but not CO39. These results strongly suggest that both CO39 and LTH possess previously unidentified resistance. The landraces were not uniform in their reactions to the isolates. When a reaction index taking into account all individual plant reactions was used, isolates that had been assigned to the same pathotype could be further differentiated, indicating that the NIL sets could not completely discriminate virulences in Bhutanese P. grisea populations. In the trap nurseries, disease was always present in the middle elevations, but disease was very low during July 1996 in the high elevations and only present during August and September 1997. Almost all varietal groups were more frequently attacked in the middle than in the high elevations, indicating that the virulence spectrum is wider and the conduciveness of the environment is greater in the middle elevations. Landraces from the high elevations were most susceptible, followed by international differential groups 7 and 8. The results suggest that selection has yielded landraces with more complete and complex resistance in the more disease-conducive mid-elevation environment. At the same time, the pathogen population also possesses a wider virulence spectrum in that environment.
18944593	ABSTRACT Sixty strains of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, collected from 29 locations in Sri Lanka in 1995, were analyzed by restriction fragment length polymorphism using either polymerase chain reaction-amplified 16S and 23S rDNA or the repetitive DNA element IS1112 from X. oryzae pv. oryzae as hybridization probes. Two different ribogroups were observed in the Sri Lankan strains using rDNA probes, whereas five clusters were identified by the IS1112 probe. Bootstrap analysis revealed that the five clusters defined by IS1112 were relatively robust. Our results suggest that the Sri Lankan strains are phylogenetically composed of five different groups. Each cluster was partially associated with climatic conditions (intermediate zone and wet zone) and was related to groups based on ribotyping. Based on virulence analysis using 12 rice cultivars, each containing a single resistance gene, 14 pathotypes were identified among the Sri Lankan strains. All strains were virulent to resistance genes Xa1, Xa2, Xa4, Xa10, Xa11, and Xa14. Only one strain (pathotype 1) was virulent to all major resistance genes including Xa21, while strains of the other pathotypes were all avirulent to Xa21. A partial relationship was found between the determined phylogenetic groups using the IS1112 probe and pathotypes for all but two clusters. The results of this study will facilitate the further understanding of the population structure of X. oryzae pv. oryzae in Sri Lanka.
18944657	ABSTRACT Rice tungro disease is caused by rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV), which is responsible for the symptoms, and rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV), which assists transmission of both viruses by leafhoppers. Transgenic japonica rice plants (Oryza sativa) were produced containing the RTSV replicase (Rep) gene in the sense or antisense orientation. Over 70% of the plants contained one to five copies of the Rep gene, with integration occurring at a single locus in most cases. Plants producing antisense sequences exhibited significant but moderate resistance to RTSV (60%); accumulation of antisense RNA was substantial, indicating that the protection was not of the homology-dependent type. Plants expressing the full-length Rep gene, as well as a truncated Rep gene, in the (+)-sense orientation were 100% resistant to RTSV even when challenged with a high level of inoculum. Accumulation of viral RNA was low, leading us to conclude that RTSV Rep-mediated resistance is not protein-mediated but is of the cosuppression type. Resistance was effective against geographically distinct RTSV isolates. In addition, RTSV-resistant transgenic rice plants were unable to assist transmission of RTBV. Such transgenic plants could be used in an epidemiological approach to combat the spread of the tungro disease.
18944682	ABSTRACT Among the 171 strains of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (the bacterial blight pathogen of rice) collected from eight rice-producing zones in Nepal, 31 molecular haplotypes were distinguished using two polymerase chain reaction-based assays. Six common haplotypes represented nearly 63% of the strains, and some haplotypes were geographically dispersed. Multiple correspondence analysis divided the collection into five putative genetic lineages. Lineages 1, 2, and 4 were the most frequently detected and occurred in diverse geographic populations. Twenty-six pathotypes (virulence phenotypes) of X. oryzae pv. oryzae were identified using 11 near-iso-genic rice lines, each containing a single gene for resistance. The 26 pathotypes grouped into five clusters, and cluster 1 contained wide virulence spectrum strains from all geographic populations. Although molecular variation was greatest between strains of different virulence phenotypes, some variation was observed among strains with identical virulence. There was a weak correlation (r = 0.52) between molecular haplotypes and virulence phenotypes. There are two major groups of X. oryzae pv. oryzae in Nepal. One group consists of strains with high molecular polymorphism and many pathotypes that are either virulent to the 11 major resistance genes or avirulent only to Xa21. Strains in the second group have low molecular polymorphism and are avirulent to Xa4, xa5, Xa7, and Xa21.
18944707	ABSTRACT Virtual lesion extension was proposed as a measure to summarize the effects of foliar diseases with single spreading lesions on CO(2)-exchange parameters at the whole-leaf level. Visible lesion plus virtual lesion extension constitute a virtual lesion, in which CO(2) exchange was postulated to be nil. Virtual lesion extension can be derived for each photosynthesis parameter from gas-exchange measurements. Using a leaf-shape function, one-dimensional lesion length was translated into two-dimensional lesion area, and a relationship between visible and virtual severity can be established. The model was applied to measurements of leaf CO(2) exchange in rice leaves infected with Xanthomonas campestris pv. oryzae, the causal organism of rice bacterial blight. The model resulted in a virtual lesion extension of 1.1 cm for the gross CO(2)-exchange rate at light saturation, -3.9 cm for dark respiration rate, and 0 for initial light use efficiency. Reduced light interception due to a visible lesion caused reductions in net CO(2) assimilation, and small virtual lesion extensions only marginally reduced net CO(2) assimilation further. The additional reduction was smaller in case of longer leaves. Measurement of net photosynthesis rate along a transect from the base to the tip of infected leaves indicated that the location on the leaf blade where net photosynthesis decreased from normal to nil was centered around the lesion tip.
18944737	ABSTRACT Strains of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae that are virulent to rice lines carrying the Xa21 resistance gene were widely distributed in Korea. A total of 105 strains collected during 1987 to 1996 in Korea was characterized by pathogenicity tests and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of the XorII methyltransferase (xorIIM) and avrXa10 genes. Although the lesion lengths on rice line IRBB21, which carries Xa21, decreased as plant age increased, resistance and susceptibility of the plants to 31 strains were clearly differentiated at the seedling (14, 21, and 28 days old), maximum tillering, and flag leaf stages. The resistance or susceptibility of seedlings was correlated with bacterial populations within an inoculated leaf. There was a significant change in the population structure of X. oryzae pv. oryzae with regard to virulence to Xa21 over the last 10 years; this change in population was confirmed by genome analysis. Lineage I, which is avirulent to Xa21 and does not have a genomic xorIIM homolog, was the predominant lineage found between 1987 and 1989, while lineage II, which is virulent to Xa21 and contains the xorIIM homolog, was predominant in strains collected between 1994 and 1995. Our results demonstrate that introduction of Xa21 into commercial rice should be based on the regional structure of X. oryzae pv. oryzae populations and suggest that Xa21 will not be useful in Korea.
18944755	ABSTRACT Isolates of Rhizoctonia solani were obtained from plant and soil samples that had been systematically collected in a field experiment in Côte d'Ivoire to study the diversity of the pathogen and the influence of three different rice rotations on the pathogen population. Characterization by morphology, anastomosis testing, pathogenicity testing, and restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) of AT-rich DNA (AT-DNA) showed that there were no differences in isolates from different experimental plots, suggesting that the soil as well as the plant population of the fungus was indistinguishable throughout the experiment and was not influenced by crop rotation. Analysis of AT-DNA showed that the isolates obtained from plant material and one from soil shared a distinct banding pattern, identical with the AT-DNA RFLP obtained for the reference strain of anastomosis group 1 (AG-1). The remaining soil isolates produced a consistent RFLP pattern that was distinct from that of the plant isolates. Morphological characterization of isolates produced two major clusters consisting of the same groups of isolates as found by AT-DNA RFLP. Diversity in morphological characters was much higher in plant than in soil isolates and indicated that the population might consist of several clones. Anastomosis testing revealed that soil as well as plant isolates were able to fuse with the tester strain of AG-1. Significant differences in disease severity were observed between the two groups of isolates in pathogenicity tests on rice plants, with plant isolates being distinctively more virulent.
18944805	ABSTRACT The dispersal potential of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, causal agent of bacterial blight of rice (Oryzae sativa), was investigated through measurement of primary disease gradients. Plants within individual hills of rice were inoculated, and the number of new lesions in the primary generation of dispersal from these inoculated sources was counted. Two dispersal models that can describe the number of infections at the source (the Kiyosawa and Shiyomi and the modified Gregory) were fit to the lesion counts. Estimated gradient slopes were similar in the 2 years of the study for both gradient models. However, the Kiyosawa and Shiyomi model gave a better fit in both years, as indicated by higher coefficients of determination and significances of slopes and by a more random pattern of residuals. Primary disease gradients were very steep, with half-distances (distances over which lesion numbers are calculated to decrease by half) estimated from the Kiyosawa and Shiyomi model of 0.091 and 0.081 m in 1994 and 1995, respectively. Splash dispersal of X. oryzae pv. oryzae is the most likely explanation for both the steep slopes measured and the superior fit of the Kiyosawa and Shiyomi model over the modified Gregory model.
18944826	ABSTRACT Seedling disease, caused primarily by several species of Pythium, is one of the major constraints to water-seeded rice production in Louisiana. The disease, also known as water-mold disease, seed rot, and seedling damping-off, causes stand reductions and growth abnormalities. In severe cases, fields must be replanted, which may result in delayed harvests and reduced yields. To develop more effective disease management tactics including biological control, this study was conducted primarily to determine sites of infection in seeds and seedlings; effect of plant age on susceptibility to P. arrhenomanes, P. myriotylum, and P. dissotocum; and minimum exposure times required for infection and seedling death. In addition, the effect of water depth on seedling disease was investigated. Infection rates of seed embryos were significantly higher than those of endosperms for all three Pythium spp. The development of roots from dry-seeded seedlings was significantly reduced by P. arrhenomanes and P. myriotylum at 5 days after planting compared with that of roots from noninoculated controls. Susceptibility of rice to all three species was sharply reduced within 2 to 6 days after planting, and seedlings were completely resistant at 8 days after planting. There was a steep reduction in emergence through the flood water, relative to the noninoculated control, following 2 to 3 days of exposure to inoculum of P. arrhenomanes and P. myriotylum. In contrast, P. dissotocum was much less virulent and required longer exposure times to cause irreversible seedling damage. Disease incidence was higher when seeds were planted into deeper water, implying that seedlings become resistant after they emerge through the flood water. These results suggest that disease control tactics including flood water management need to be employed for a very short period of time after planting. Also, given that the embryo is the primary site of infection and it is susceptible for only a few days, the disease should be amenable to biological control.
18944889	ABSTRACT Genetic analysis of the rice cultivar Aichi Asahi and some other Japanese cultivars for the high resistance to the blast fungus isolate CHNOS58-3-1 from China was performed. All the Japanese differential cultivars were resistant to the isolate except for 'Pi No. 4', which showed moderate resistance. Analysis of the F(2) population of a cross of the susceptible cultivar Reiho and the resistant cultivar Aichi Asahi indicated that the resistance of 'Aichi Asahi' to the isolate was conferred by one dominant gene. To identify the gene in other Japanese differential cultivars, AK lines, which were derived from a cross of 'Aichi Asahi' x 'K59' and assumed to harbor no known genes except for the new one, were used for the allelism tests. The new, completely dominant resistance gene was detected in 14 differential cultivars, but not in 'Pi No. 4', 'Yashiro-mochi', and 'K1', and was designated as Pi19(t). Pi19(t) was allelic or closely linked to Pita(2) on chromosome 12. Pi19(t) was extensively distributed among Japanese traditional local cultivars.
18944907	ABSTRACT Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. erythroxyli is being investigated as a mycoherbicide for the narcotic plant coca. Sporulation of the fungus in seven formulations containing different organic substrates and movement of its propagules through soil were studied. The formulations were a granular wheat flour/kaolin (pesta); an extruded wheat and rice flour (C-6); and five alginate pellet products containing corn cobs, soybean hull fiber, canola meal, rice flour, or rice flour plus canola oil. Formulations were incubated at 25 degrees C for 6 weeks in desiccators with various salt solutions to provide nine relative humidities (RH), ranging from 100% (pure deionized water) to 0% (anhydrous (CaSO(4)). Hyphae of F. oxysporum f. sp. erythroxyli grew out of alginate pellets with canola meal, rice, and rice plus canola oil as early as 24 h at 100% constant RH. Alginate pellets of rice plus canola oil and granular C-6 and pesta formulations consistently produced more microconidia, macroconidia, and CFU than the other four formulations at all RH tested. The C-6 formulation produced more propagules than the other formulations at low RH (<53%). Canola meal pellets produced more spores than three other formulations when exposed to fluctuating RH (100 to 75%). The effect of percolating water on spore movement through soil was studied using a plant-pathogenic isolate of F. oxysporum f. sp. niveum. To determine the effect of water percolation on propagule movement, formulations were placed on soil columns and artificial rain was applied. In general, 10-fold fewer CFU were recovered at a 8- to 10-cm depth compared with a 0- to 2-cm depth.
18944948	ABSTRACT Avirulent isolates of Pyricularia oryzae and isolates of Bipolaris sorokiniana, a nonrice pathogen, were used to suppress rice blast caused by P. oryzae. In greenhouse experiments, both fungi substantially reduced leaf blast when applied 24 h or more before the pathogen. B. sorokiniana, but not avirulent isolates of P. oryzae, systemically reduced disease in leaf 5 when applied to whole plants at the four-leaf stage. In field experiments, both fungi were able to reduce neck blast significantly. No increase in grain yield was obtained by using avirulent isolates of P. oryzae, whereas five sprays with B. sorokiniana from seedling to heading stages increased the grain yield in two of three experiments conducted at two locations in Nepal. The significant increase in yield was observed under high inoculum pressure of P. oryzae. Induced resistance is suggested to be involved in the suppression of disease.
18944963	ABSTRACT A natural epidemic of Fusarium wilt on coca (Erythroxylum coca) in Peru prompted the suggestion of possibly using the pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. erythroxyli as a mycoherbicide against this narcotic plant. During field trials conducted in Kauai, HI, to test the pathogenicity of the coca wilt pathogen, ants were observed removing formulations from test plots. While removal of formulations by ants was considered detrimental with respect to conducting field tests, ant removal was considered potentially beneficial in disseminating the mycoherbicide. Thus, research was initiated to assess the ability of formulation additives to alter the preference of ants for the formulated mycoherbicide. In Hawaii, preference of indigenous ants for removing formulations was tested using three different food bases (rice, rice plus canola oil, and wheat flour [gluten]). Similar tests were conducted at Beltsville, MD, using F. oxysporum f. sp. melonis, in which the formulation based on wheat flour was replaced by a formulation based on canola meal. Formulations based on wheat were preferred by ants in both locations; up to 90% of the wheat plus rice flour granules (C-6) and the wheat gluten plus kaolin granules (pesta) were removed within 24 h, while only 20% of those containing rice without oils were taken. However, when either canola, sunflower (Maryland only), or olive oil was added to the rice formulation, up to 90% of the granules were taken. The formulation based on canola meal was less attractive to ants, as only 65% of the granules were removed within a period of 24 h. Ants showed no preference with respect to presence or absence of fungal biomass. To alter the attractiveness of the C-6 formulation to ants, C-6 was amended with three natural products. Canna and tansy leaves were added to C-6 at a ratio of 1:5 (wt/wt), while chili powder was added at 1:25 or 1:2.5 (wt/wt). Canna, tansy, and the higher rate of chili powder significantly reduced the number of C-6 granules removed by ants. Canna and tansy leaves affected neither germination nor sporulation of the mycoherbicide, while the high concentration of chili powder reduced viability of propagules in the formulation. More F. oxysporum f. sp. erythroxyli-type colonies were recovered from inside ant nests (9 cm depth) than from nest surfaces, indicating that ants may distribute the mycoherbicide in the soil profile. Ants passively carried propagules of F. oxysporum f. sp. erythroxyli outside their bodies, as well as either very closely adhering to the outside or within their bodies.
18944968	ABSTRACT DNA samples from Magnaporthe grisea isolates were fingerprinted by using repetitive element-based polymerase chain reaction (rep-PCR) with two outwardly directed primer sequences from Pot2, an element found in approximately 100 copies in the fungal genome. Variable length fragments, defining the sequences lying between these elements, were generated, and fingerprint patterns specific for individual strains were established. "Long PCR" conditions, including higher pH (9.2) and increased extension time (10 min) were used to amplify DNA fragments ranging from 400 bp to longer than 23 kb. Polymorphisms specific to M. grisea strains were generated, allowing inference of their genetic relationships. Segregation analysis was used to confirm single-locus inheritance for the fragments amplified by rep-PCR. Cluster analysis revealed robust groupings that corresponded to previously determined MGR586 restriction fragment length polymorphism lineages of the rice-infecting strains of the pathogen. We have also demonstrated the utility of rep-PCR to differentiate isolates that infect rice from those that infect nonrice hosts. DNA fingerprinting by Pot2 rep-PCR provides an efficient means to monitor the population dynamics of the blast pathogen. Because of the method's low cost and ease in application, it is now feasible to conduct large-scale population studies to understand the impact of host genotypes on pathogen evolution.
18945000	ABSTRACT Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast, forms a dome-shaped melanized infection structure, an appressorium, to infect its host. Environmental cues that induce appressorium formation in this fungus include the hydrophobicity and hardness of the contact surface and chemicals produced by the host. An elevated concentration of intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) has been implicated in appressorium differentiation in M. grisea. Polyamines (putrescine, spermidine, and sper-mine) are involved in cell growth and differentiation in a wide range of organisms. To understand the role of polyamines in appressorium differentiation in M. grisea, intracellular polyamines were quantified, and the effects of polyamines and polyamine biosynthesis inhibitors on conidial germination and appressorium formation were tested. High levels of polyamines were detected in freshly collected spores, but the levels decreased during conidial germination. Spermidine was found to be the major component. Polyamines and polyamine biosynthesis inhibitors did not affect conidial germination, but polyamines specifically impaired appressorium formation. Furthermore, exogenous addition of cAMP restored appressorium formation inhibited by poly-amines. These results suggest that polyamines may reduce intracellular cAMP levels in M. grisea, leading to the inhibition of appressorium formation.
18945025	ABSTRACT Two doubled-haploid rice populations, IR64/Azucena and IRAT177/ Apura, were used to identify markers linked to rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) resistance using core restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) maps. Resistance was measured by mechanical inoculation of 19-day-old seedlings followed by assessment of virus content by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay tests 15 days after inoculation. IR64/Azucena and IRAT177/Apura populations, 72 and 43 lines, respectively, were evaluated, and resistance was found to be polygenic. Resistance was expressed as a slower virus multiplication, low symptom expression, and limited yield loss when assessed at the field level. Bulked segregant analysis using the IR64/Azucena population identified a single random amplified polymorphic DNA marker that mapped on chromosome 12 and corresponded to a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) evidenced by interval mapping. When pooling RFLP data, integrated mapping of this chromosome revealed that the QTL was common to the two populations and corresponded to a small chromosomal segment known to contain a cluster of major blast resistance genes. This region of the genome also reflected the differentiation observed at the RFLP level between the subspecies indica and japonica of Oryza sativa. This is consistent with the observation that most sources of RYMV resistance used in rice breeding are found in upland rice varieties that typically belong to the japonica subspecies.
18945027	ABSTRACT Rhizoctonia solani, the rice sheath blight pathogen, produces a toxin that reproduces all symptoms of the disease. The toxin has been partially purified and it was found to be a carbohydrate containing glucose, mannose, N-acetylgalactosamine, and N-acetylglucosamine. The toxin was also detected in infected leaves. Highly virulent isolates produced more toxin than less virulent isolates. Several R. solani isolates from rice and one each from cotton and tomato produced a similar toxin. All rice cultivars tested were susceptible to the pathogen and sensitive to the toxin. Host specificity of the toxin has been demonstrated using hosts and nonhosts of the pathogen.
18945099	ABSTRACT Xanthomonas oryzae pathovar oryzae causes a serious disease of rice in India and is endemic in all of the major rice-growing areas of the country. Sixty-seven X. oryzae pv. oryzae strains, collected mostly in 1994 and 1995, from 18 locations in India were analyzed by DNA fingerprinting methods using two separate repeat element probes from the X. oryzae pv. oryzae genome. These results show that strains belonging to a single pathogen lineage can be isolated from 16 of the 18 locations sampled; many of these locations are separated from each other by hundreds of kilometers and represent ecologically diverse rice-growing areas. Pathotyping analysis indicated that the strains in this lineage belong to pathotype 1b of X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
18945155	ABSTRACT Experiments were conducted in farmers' fields at two locations of the irrigated lowlands of Laguna province in southern Luzon island, Philippines, during the wet seasons of 1993 and 1994. Nine rice populations were studied including pure stands, two-component mixtures, two-gene combinations of backcrossed lines containing varying combinations of the bacterial blight resistance genes Xa-4, xa-5, and Xa-10, and a non-isogenic cultivar containing Xa-4 and partial resistance to bacterial blight. The area under the disease progress curve (AUDPC) of both gene combinations studied was significantly less than the single most effective gene of each combination deployed singly. A mixture of a susceptible and a resistant line expressed an AUDPC significantly less than the mean of its component pure stands, but two other mixtures did not. The cultivar IR20, which contains both Xa-4 and partial resistance, reduced the AUDPC by about two-thirds as compared with IR-BB4, which contains Xa-4 and little or no partial resistance.
18945156	ABSTRACT An isolate of Magnaporthe grisea, Tm4, from a rice field in Texas was crossed with a fertile laboratory strain, 70-6. The progenies showed segregation of avirulence/virulence on rice cvs. Newbonnet, Lemont, Lebonnet, Leah, and Katy. The avirulent/virulent segregation ratios were 29:6 on Newbonnet, Lemont, and Lebonnet; 28:7 on Leah; and 33:2 on Katy. There was cosegregation on the first three cultivars. Several avirulent progenies were backcrossed to virulent parent 70-6. Three generations of backcrossing avirulent progenies to 70-6 led to segregation ratios that suggested certain strains had only one avirulence gene. Strains avirulent only on cv. Katy or only on cvs. Newbonnet, Lemont, and Lebonnet were test crossed with virulent siblings. Strains that gave progeny ratios approximating 1 avirulent:1 virulent when crossed with virulent siblings were selected for further test crossing. Intercrosses between strains with possible single avirulence genes were made to determine whether these strains had the same or different avirulence genes. Many lines still segregated two genes for avirulence after three generations of backcrossing. This is based on the recovery of virulent progenies from crossing two avirulent siblings.
18945171	ABSTRACT We applied DNA markers to determine whether parasexual recombination may contribute to the extreme genetic diversity and variability observed in Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease. Dispersed repetitive elements and mapped, low-copy restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) probes were used to detect transfers of DNA between cultured isolates of M. grisea. Low-copy RFLP probes also were used to detect putative recombinants among isolates from well-characterized field populations of the pathogen. Microscopic examination of tufted mycelium between cocultured isolates revealed frequent hyphal fusions. Hyphal tips and conidia were recovered without selection from tufted zones in two separate vegetative pairings involving isolates with dissimilar haplotypes, based on the repetitive element MGR586. Haplotypic changes were observed at a higher frequency in tuft derivatives than in subcultures of each isolate alone. From 136 tuft derivatives analyzed, 5 putative recombinant haplotypes were identified. Introgression was demonstrated with two independent repetitive elements, fosbury and MGR586, as probes on DNA digested with several restriction enzymes. Introgressions were characterized by addition of 1 to 10 MGR586 bands, and 1 to 3 fosbury bands from one parent into the background of the other. Polymorphic single-copy probes were used to analyze putative recombinants. One probe detected an introgression event as predicted by analysis with MGR586. To assess the possible role of parasexual recombination in field populations of the pathogen, isolates in the Philippines previously grouped based on DNA fingerprinting were analyzed with low-copy RFLP markers. Polymorphism in single-copy loci typically was seen between, but not within, putative pathogen lineages. One lineage (designated lineage 4), however, was polymorphic for several probes. For some isolates, alleles at these loci comigrated with alleles characteristic of other lineages, suggesting the transfer of DNA fragments between lineages. One isolate was apparently a merodiploid, carrying an allele typical of lineage 4 plus another allele characteristic of a different lineage. In a survey of isolates from the Indian Himalayas, a merodiploid also was found with single- or low-copy probes. Examination of MGR586 profiles of the putative recombinant and its putative donor strains showed the expected introgression of MGR586 bands. The detection of parasexual DNA exchanges in wild-type strains under unselected conditions and the existence of merodiploids in nature suggest that parasexual recombination occurs in field populations of M. grisea. This raises questions concerning exclusive clonality in the blast fungus.
18945744	Soil phosphorus (P) solubility declines sharply when a flooded soil drains, and an important component of rice (Oryza sativa) adaptation to rainfed lowland environments is the ability to absorb and utilize P under such conditions. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that rice cultivars differ in their P responses between water regimes because P uptake mechanisms differ. Six lowland rice cultivars (three considered tolerant of low P soils, three sensitive) were grown in a factorial experiment with three water regimes (flooded, moist and flooded-then-moist) and four soil P levels, and growth and P uptake were measured. Small volumes of soil were used to maximize inter-root competition and uptake per unit root surface. The results were compared with the predictions of a model allowing for the effects of water regime on P solubility and diffusion. The plants were P stressed but not water stressed in all the water regimes at all P levels except the higher P additions in the flooded soil. The cultivar rankings scarcely differed between the water regimes and P additions. In all the treatments, the soil P concentrations required to explain the measured uptake were several times the concentration of freely available P in the soil. The cultivar rankings were driven more by differences in growth habit than specific P uptake mechanisms, so the hypothesis cannot be corroborated with these data. Evidently all the plants could tap sparingly soluble forms of P by releasing a solubilizing agent or producing a greater root length than measured, or both. However, any cultivar differences in this were not apparent in greater net P uptake, possibly because the restricted rooting volume meant that additional P uptake could not be converted into new root growth to explore new soil volumes.
18945932	Selected strains of nonpathogenic rhizobacteria can reduce disease in foliar tissues through the induction of a defense state known as induced systemic resistance (ISR). Compared with the large body of information on ISR in dicotyledonous plants, little is known about the mechanisms underlying rhizobacteria-induced resistance in cereal crops. Here, we demonstrate the ability of Pseudomonas fluorescens WCS374r to trigger ISR in rice (Oryza sativa) against the leaf blast pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae. Using salicylic acid (SA)-nonaccumulating NahG rice, an ethylene-insensitive OsEIN2 antisense line, and the jasmonate-deficient mutant hebiba, we show that this WCS374r-induced resistance is regulated by an SA-independent but jasmonic acid/ethylene-modulated signal transduction pathway. Bacterial mutant analysis uncovered a pseudobactin-type siderophore as the crucial determinant responsible for ISR elicitation. Root application of WCS374r-derived pseudobactin (Psb374) primed naive leaves for accelerated expression of a pronounced multifaceted defense response, consisting of rapid recruitment of phenolic compounds at sites of pathogen entry, concerted expression of a diverse set of structural defenses, and a timely hyperinduction of hydrogen peroxide formation putatively driving cell wall fortification. Exogenous SA application alleviated this Psb374-modulated defense priming, while Psb374 pretreatment antagonized infection-induced transcription of SA-responsive PR genes, suggesting that the Psb374- and SA-modulated signaling pathways are mutually antagonistic. Interestingly, in sharp contrast to WCS374r-mediated ISR, chemical induction of blast resistance by the SA analog benzothiadiazole was independent of jasmonic acid/ethylene signaling and involved the potentiation of SA-responsive gene expression. Together, these results offer novel insights into the signaling circuitry governing induced resistance against M. oryzae and suggest that rice is endowed with multiple blast-effective resistance pathways.
18946697	Field research was carried out to assess the effects of the application of reclaimed municipal wastewater on rice cultivation in Thessaloniki, Greece during a 2-year period (1999-2000). Effects on production cost, soil composition, and health risk were examined. A randomized complete block design was used for the paddy field with three treatments and four replicates. The treatments were (1) river irrigation water with N-P fertilization, (2) reclaimed wastewater irrigation with surface N fertilization, and (3) reclaimed wastewater irrigation without fertilization. The results showed that the total production cost decreased 8.8% and 11.9% by applying the second and third treatments, respectively, compared to the first treatment, without significant differences in the agronomic and rice quality traits. Soil composition showed discrepancies between the 2 years and the three treatments, whereas the pathogens of the reclaimed wastewater and rice tissues posed a low human risk when taking the needed precautions.
18946700	A gene encoding the rice (Oryza sativa L.) 90-kDa heat shock protein (OsHsp90) was introduced into Escherichia coli using the pGEX-6p-3 expression vector with a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) tag to analyze the possible function of this protein under heat stress for the first time. We compared the survivability of E. coli (BL21) cells transformed with a recombinant plasmid containing GST-OsHsp90 fusion protein with control E. coli cells transformed with the plasmid containing GST and the wild type BL21 under heat shock after isopropyl beta-D: -thiogalactopyranoside induction. Cells expressing GST-OsHsp90 demonstrated thermotolerance at 42, 50, and 70 degrees C, treatments that were more harmful to cells expressing GST and the wild type. Further studies were carried out to analyze the heat-induced characteristics of OsHsp90 at 42, 50, and 70 degrees C in vitro. When cell lysates from E. coli transformants were heated at these heat stresses, expressed GST-OsHsp90 prevented the denaturation of bacterial proteins treated with 42 degrees C heat shocks, and partially prevented that of proteins treated at 50 and 70 degrees C; meanwhile, cells expressing GST-OsHsp90 withstood the duration at 50 degrees C. These results indicate that OsHsp90 functioned as a chaperone, binding to a subset of substrates, and maintained E. coli growth well at high temperatures.
18947033	Biofortification is an agricultural process that attempts to increase the iron and zinc content of staple food crops. Improving the absorption of zinc and iron could contribute to reducing the high rates of deficiency of these micronutrients in developing-country settings. To simulate the effects of biofortification of staple food crops (maize, wheat, rice, and beans) on the absorption of zinc and iron among women and children in Mexico. We analyzed dietary data from the 1999 Mexican National Nutrition Survey. On the basis of the intake of the four staple food crops and the increase in zinc and iron content that could be achieved by conventional breeding in the short term, the prevalence of inadequacy in the amounts of absorbed zinc and iron was determined. The mean increase in the amounts of absorbed zinc and iron was compared according to rural and urban residence and according to region of the country. In rural areas, simulated biofortification of maize resulted in a reduction in the prevalence of absorption of inadequate amounts of zinc of 47% in children and 56% in women but had no effect on the prevalence of absorption of inadequate amounts of iron. The increase in zinc absorption was greater in rural populations and in the Central and Southern regions (p < .05). Biofortification of maize could significantly improve zinc absorption among children and women in Mexico living in areas most vulnerable to zinc deficiency. Studies of the biological impact of biofortified maize on zinc status are warranted.
18947232	The kinetics, depletion/repletion of zinc, and effects of dietary ligands/food matrices on (65)Zn uptake was studied in Caco-2 cells. The uptake of zinc showed a saturable and nonsaturable component, depending upon the media zinc concentrations. Intracellular depletion increased zinc uptake, whereas zinc loading did not. Phytic acid and histidine inhibited zinc uptake, while tannic acid, tartaric acid, arginine, and methionine increased zinc uptake. Tannic acid at a 1:50 molar ratio promoted zinc uptake from wheat- and rice-based food matrices. Further, Caco-2 cells responded similarly with zinc and iron uptake when fed Indian bread prepared from low- and high-extraction wheat flour, representing low and high phytate content. However, inclusion of tea extract or red grape juice as a source of polyphenols enhanced the uptake of zinc while decreasing that of iron. These results suggest that the Caco-2 cells predict the correct direction of response to dietary ligands even from complex foods.
18947492	The mechanism of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) remains unclear and effective treatment approach is limited for this disorder. Many studies have shown that tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) plays an important role in nervous system. This study investigated the effect of tPA in HIBD in neonatal rats. Seven-day-old Wistar rat pups were used for the Rice-Vannucci model of neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI). Brain samples were collected 1, 4, and 24 hrs after HI. FITC-Dextran was injected into the left ventricle of pups after HI to observe reperfusion defects of the neonatal brain. RT-PCR and tPA zymogram were used to detect the expression and activity of tPA. Double immunostaining, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and DAPI staining were used to detect the expression of integrin GPIIb and fibrin and neuronal apoptosis. FITC-Dextran perfusion analysis indicated there was obvious infarct area in the neonatal brain and the expression of integrin GPIIb and fibrin increased significantly 1 hr after HI compared with the contralateral side. The infarct area decreased and the expression of integrin GPIIb and fibrin were reduced 4 hrs after HI. The expression and activity of tPA increased significantly in neonatal rats after HI, and peaked at 4 hrs after HI. The number of apoptotic neural cells increased progressively with the prolonged reperfusion time following HI. The increase of tPA in the acute phase after HIBD may be helpful to clot dissolving, but it induces neuronal apoptosis and aggravates brain injury.
18947493	This study aimed to prepare a hypoxic brain damage model in the neonatal rat using a new approach, 0% oxygen exposure, and to explore the reliability and advantages of the new model. Seven-day-old Wistar rats were randomly exposed to either 7 minutes of 0% oxygen, to the conventional Rice-Vannucci method (ischemia + 2 hrs hypoxia exposure), or to left common carotid artery ligation (ischemia). Rat pups which were not subjected to any hypoxia-ischemia treatment were used as the control group. Brain water content and neuronal apoptosis were measured. Neurofunctional assessment was performed. Brain pathological changes were observed using hematoxylin and eosin staining. The water content (88.96+/-0.29%) and apoptosis of neurons (31.52+/-5.45%) of the left brain in the 0% oxygen group were significantly higher than those of the ischemic and the control groups (P<0.01), and similar to those in the Rice-Vannucci group. The water content (88.68+/-0.24%) and apoptosis of neurons (30.85+/-5.38%) of the right brain in the 0% oxygen group were significantly higher than those of the Rice-Vannucci, the ischemic and the control groups (P<0.01). Both side brains of the 0% oxygen group showed pathological injuries, but only left brain of the Rice-Vannucci group had pathological changes. No pathological abnormalities were seen in the ischemic and the control groups. Significant neurofunctional impairments were found in the 0% oxygen and the Rice-Vannucci groups. A hypoxic brain damage model of neonatal rat was successfully prepared using 7 minutes 0% oxygen exposure. The new approach appears to be simple and reliable.
18948477	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants were cultivated in an experimental field and separated at harvest into different components, including polished rice, rice bran, hull, straw, and root. The contents of iodine in these components and the soil were determined by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry and radiochemical neutron activation analysis, respectively. Iodine content varied by more than three orders of magnitude among the plant components. Mean concentration of iodine in the entire plants was 20 mg kg(-1) dry weight, and the concentration of iodine in the surface soil (0-20 cm depth) was 48 mg kg(-1). The highest concentration of iodine (53 mg kg(-1) dry weight) was measured in root and the lowest concentration (0.034 mg kg(-1) dry weight) in polished rice. While the edible component (polished rice) accounted for 32% of the total dry weight, it contained only 0.055% of iodine found in the entire rice plants. Atmospheric gaseous iodine (5.9 ng m(-3)) was estimated to contribute <0.2% of the total iodine content in the biomass of rice plants; therefore nearly all of the iodine in the rice plants was a result of the uptake of iodine from the soil. The content of iodine in the aboveground part of rice plants was 16 mg kg(-1) dry weight and the percentage of iodine transferred per cropping from the soil into the aboveground biomass corresponded to 0.27% (20 mg m(-2)) of the upper soil layer content.
18948704	Efforts have been made in recent years to clarify molecular meiotic processes in a large variety of higher eukaryotes. In plants, such studies have enjoyed a boom in the last years with the use of Arabidopsis thaliana together with maize, rice and tomato as model systems. Owing to direct and reverse genetic screens, an increasing number of genes involved in meiosis have been characterized in plants. In parallel, the improvement of cytological and genetical tools has allowed a precise description of meiotic recombination events. Thus, it appears that meiotic studies in plants are reaching a new stage and can provide new insights into meiotic recombination mechanisms. In this review, we intend to give an overview of these recent advances in the understanding of meiotic recombination in plants.
18948705	A major goal of breeding programs is to increase and manipulate the genetic diversity of crops. The incorporation of beneficial genes from wild relatives into crops is achieved by producing hybrid plants in which meiotic recombination events occur between the two genomes. Furthering our understanding of meiosis in the cereals could enable the manipulation of homolog pairing and recombination, significantly enhancing the efficiency of breeding programs. The main obstacle to the genetic analysis of meiosis in cereal crops has been the complex organization of most cereal genomes, many of which are polyploid. However, the recent sequencing of the rice genome, the use of insertional mutagenesis and reverse genetics approaches has opened the door for the genetic and genomic analysis of cereal meiosis. The goal of this review is to show how these new resources, as well as the use of three-dimensional microscopy, are rapidly providing insights into the mechanisms that control pairing, recombination and segregation of homologous chromosomes during meiosis in four major cereal crops: wheat, rice, maize and rye.
18949027	Cholera outbreaks are proposed to propagate in explosive cycles powered by hyperinfectious Vibrio cholerae and quenched by lytic vibriophage. However, studies to elucidate how these factors affect transmission are lacking because the field experiments are almost intractable. One reason for this is that V. cholerae loses the ability to culture upon transfer to pond water. This phenotype is called the active but non-culturable state (ABNC; an alternative term is viable but non-culturable) because these cells maintain the capacity for metabolic activity. ABNC bacteria may serve as the environmental reservoir for outbreaks but rigorous animal studies to test this hypothesis have not been conducted. In this project, we wanted to determine the relevance of ABNC cells to transmission as well as the impact lytic phage have on V. cholerae as the bacteria enter the ABNC state. Rice-water stool that naturally harbored lytic phage or in vitro derived V. cholerae were incubated in a pond microcosm, and the culturability, infectious dose, and transcriptome were assayed over 24 h. The data show that the major contributors to infection are culturable V. cholerae and not ABNC cells. Phage did not affect colonization immediately after shedding from the patients because the phage titer was too low. However, V. cholerae failed to colonize the small intestine after 24 h of incubation in pond water-the point when the phage and ABNC cell titers were highest. The transcriptional analysis traced the transformation into the non-infectious ABNC state and supports models for the adaptation to nutrient poor aquatic environments. Phage had an undetectable impact on this adaptation. Taken together, the rise of ABNC cells and lytic phage blocked transmission. Thus, there is a fitness advantage if V. cholerae can make a rapid transfer to the next host before these negative selective pressures compound in the aquatic environment.
1894920	The F concentrations of precipitate dust, agricultural products, and fingernail and hair at the surrounding Al factory were investigated. The F content of dust ranged from 15400 to 42500 micrograms/g dry weight, 190,000 to 380,000 micrograms/g Al. Rice grain contained about 3.4 times more F than that in the control area, but some kinds of agricultural products, egg plants (S. melongena L.), mulberry plants (M. japonica Bailey non Sieb.), and soy beans (G. max (L.) Merrill) were almost equal to that of controls. Also, the high F concentration in the hair and nails of some workers was affected by available F contents in the emission from the factory as well as food and water surrounding the aluminum factory compared with those of control area.
18950053	Geographic variability in susceptibility of field-collected Cnaphalocrocis medinalis (Guenée) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) to Bacillus thuringiensis (Berliner) was studied to establish a geographic baseline for comparison of future population responses to the increased use of B. thuringiensis-based insect control products. Colonies of C. medinalis were established from 10 populations collected from 10 different provinces in the major rice (Oryza savita L.)-growing regions of China. Populations were evaluated for their susceptibility to Cry1Ac and Cry1Ab endotoxin proteins with the leaf-dip bioassay. The LC50 values to Cry1Ac and Cry1Ab were estimated for the 10 populations. Bioassay results indicated that the ranges of LC50 in the second instars of C. medinalis to Cry1Ac and Cry1Ab were from 3.77 to 208.22 mg ([AI])/liter and 0.22-7.05 mg ([AI])/liter, respectively. The relative ratios in susceptibility between the most susceptible and the most tolerant populations were beyond 50-fold for Cry1Ac and 30-fold for Cry1Ab. Moreover, there was a significant positive correlation between susceptibilities to the two toxins tested, suggesting that insect populations that are relatively tolerant to one protein are also relatively tolerant to the other.
18950187	Three machine learning methods, genetic algorithm-multilinear regression (GA-MLR), least-squares support vector machine (LS-SVM), and project pursuit regression (PPR), were used to investigate the relationship between thiazoline derivatives and their fungicidal activities against the rice blast disease. The GA-MLR method was used to select the most appropriate molecular descriptors from a large set of descriptors, which were only calculated from molecular structures, and develop a linear quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) model at the same time. On the basis of the selected descriptors, the other two more accurate models (LS-SVM and PPR) were built. Both the linear and nonlinear modes gave good prediction results, but the nonlinear models afforded better prediction ability, which meant that the LS-SVM and PPR methods could simulate the relationship between the structural descriptors and fungicidal activities more accurately. The results show that the nonlinear methods (LS-SVM and PPR) could be used as good modeling tools for the study of rice blast. Moreover, this study provides a new and simple but efficient approach, which should facilitate the design and development of new compounds to resist the rice blast disease.
18950435	Although some tissue-specific cis-acting elements have been identified, the molecular mechanisms of tissue-specific gene expression remain elusive. Here, we report the identification by a yeast one-hybrid screen of five proteins, Os10g31330/glycine-rich, Os01g10400/metallothionein-like, Os05g51180/nucleic acid-binding, Os05g37930/unknown and Os01g01689/phosphatidylinositol kinase that bound to either the positive or negative tissue-specific cis elements of a rice promoter from the green tissue-specific D54O gene. These proteins are localised in the nucleus and the genes encoding them are differentially expressed in different tissues, further suggesting their putative roles in regulating gene expression. These results suggest that the green tissue-specific expression of the D54O gene may be regulated by the interaction of multiple proteins with cis elements in the promoter region.
18950536	Reported malaria cases in rice growing areas in western Tajikistan were at the root of a rapid appraisal of the local malaria situation in a selected agro-ecological setting where only scarce information was available. The rapid appraisal was complemented by a review of the epidemiology and control of malaria in Tajikistan and Central Asia from 1920 until today. Following a resurgence in the 1990s, malaria transmission has been reduced considerably in Tajikistan as a result of concerted efforts by the government and international agencies. The goal for 2015 is transmission interruption, with control interventions and surveillance currently concentrated in the South, where foci of Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium falciparum persist. The rapid malaria appraisal was carried out in six communities of irrigated rice cultivation during the peak of malaria transmission (August/September 2007) in western Tajikistan. In a cross-sectional survey, blood samples were taken from 363 schoolchildren and examined for Plasmodium under a light microscope. A total of 56 farmers were interviewed about agricultural activities and malaria. Potential Anopheles breeding sites were characterized using standardized procedures. A literature review on the epidemiology and control of malaria in Tajikistan was conducted. One case of P. vivax was detected among the 363 schoolchildren examined (0.28%). The interviewees reported to protect themselves against mosquito bites and used their own concepts on fever conditions, which do not distinguish between malaria and other diseases. Three potential malaria vectors were identified, i.e. Anopheles superpictus, Anopheles pulcherrimus and Anopheles hyrcanus in 58 of the 73 breeding sites examined (79.5%). Rice paddies, natural creeks and man-made ponds were the most important Anopheles habitats. The presence of malaria vectors and parasite reservoirs, low awareness of, and protection against malaria in the face of population movements and inadequate surveillance may render local communities vulnerable to potential epidemics. To attain malaria transmission interruption in Tajikistan by 2015, there is a need for rigorous surveillance along with strengthening of primary health care facilities for effective case management, and possibly a more differentiated vector control strategy based on additional local evidence.
18952157	Protease inhibitors play important roles in stress and developmental responses of plants. Rice genome contains 17 putative members in chymotrypsin protease inhibitor (ranging in size from 7.21 to 11.9 kDa) gene family with different predicted localization sites. Full-length cDNA encoding for a putative subtilisin-chymotrypsin protease inhibitor (OCPI2) was obtained from Pusa basmati 1 (indica) rice seedlings. 620 bp-long OCPI2 cDNA contained 219 bp-long ORF, coding for 72 amino acid-long 7.7 kDa subtilisin-chymotrypsin protease inhibitor (CPI) cytoplasmic protein. Expression analysis by semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that OCPI2 transcript is induced by varied stresses including salt, ABA, low temperature and mechanical injury in both root and shoot tissues of the seedlings. Transgenic rice plants produced with OCPI2 promoter-gus reporter gene showed that this promoter directs high salt- and ABA-regulated expression of the GUS gene. Another CPI gene (OCPI1) upstream to OCPI2 (with 1126 bp distance between the transcription initiation sites of the two genes; transcription in the reverse orientation) was noted in genome sequence of rice genome. A vector that had GFP and GUS reporter genes in opposite orientations driven by 1881 bp intergenic sequence between the OCPI2 and OCPI1 (encompassing the region between the translation initiation sites of the two genes) was constructed and shot in onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment. Expression of both GFP and GUS from the same epidermal cell showed that this sequence represents a bidirectional promoter. Examples illustrating gene pairs showing co-expression of two divergent neighboring genes sharing a bidirectional promoter have recently been extensively worked out in yeast and human systems. We provide an example of a gene pair constituted of two homologous genes showing co-expression governed by a bidirectional promoter in rice.
18952424	Pyrrospirones A and B have been isolated from unpolished rice cultures of the endophytic fungus Neonectria ramulariae Wollenw KS-246. Their absolute stereostructures (1 and 2) were elucidated through spectroscopic methods using 1D and 2D NMR techniques and chemical transformations, including the modified Mosher's method. The compounds exhibited cytotoxicity and induced apoptosis in human promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cells.
18952623	Nitrogen (N) is a major factor affecting yield gain of crops under elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations [CO(2)]. It is well established that elevated [CO(2)] increases root mass, but there are inconsistent reports on the effects on N uptake capacity per root mass. In the present study, it was hypothesized that the responses of N uptake capacity would change with the duration of exposure to elevated [CO(2)]. The hypothesis was tested by measuring N uptake capacity in rice plants exposed to long-term and short-term [CO(2)] treatments at different growth stages in plants grown under non-limiting N conditions in hydroponic culture. Seasonal changes in photosynthesis rate and transpiration rate were also measured. In the long-term [CO(2)] study, leaf photosynthetic responses to intercellular CO(2) concentration (Ci) were not affected by elevated [CO(2)] before the heading stage, but the initial slope in this response was decreased by elevated [CO(2)] at the grain-filling stage. Nitrate and ammonium uptake capacities per root dry weight were not affected by elevated [CO(2)] at panicle initiation, but thereafter they were reduced by elevated [CO(2)] by 31-41 % at the full heading and mid-ripening growth stages. In the short-term study (24 h exposures), elevated [CO(2)] enhanced nitrate and ammonium uptake capacities at the early vegetative growth stage, but elevated [CO(2)] decreased the uptake capacities at the mid-reproductive stage. This study showed that N uptake capacity was downregulated under long-term exposure to elevated [CO(2)] and its response to elevated [CO(2)] varied greatly with growth stage.
18952740	The palatability of different cereals was studied in 2 two-way choice (preference) experiments using pigs of 56 d of age and 17 kg of BW. In Exp. 1, the effect of 24 cereals vs. a common reference diet containing white rice on feed preference in pigs was studied. Pigs were offered free choice between the reference diet and a diet with the cereal under study for 4 d. Barley, corn (2 sources), wheat, cassava meal, biscuit meal, rye, sorghum, and 1 source of oats were tested at inclusion rates of 300 and 600 g x kg(-1). Short-grain rice (whole, brown, or extruded white), long-grain white rice (raw and cooked), extruded barley, extruded corn, extruded wheat, oats (2 sources), thick rolled oats, cooked oats, and naked oats (raw, extruded, or micronized) were tested at inclusion rates of 150, 300, and 600 g x kg(-1). Relative preference of cereals (% of total feed intake) was affected by type of cereal and by rate of inclusion. The diets containing extruded rice (150 g x kg(-1)), extruded naked oats (150, 300, and 600 g x kg(-1)), or naked oats (150 and 300 g x kg(-1)) were preferred (P < 0.05) by pigs to the reference diet. However, the reference diet was preferred (P < 0.05) to the diets containing 150, 300, and 600 g x kg(-1) of cooked long-grain rice, oats, or cooked oats, 300 and 600 g x kg(-1) of extruded wheat, wheat, corn, sorghum, or unhulled short-grain rice, and 600 g x kg(-1) of thick rolled oats, extruded corn, rye, extruded barley, micronized naked oats, barley, cassava, or biscuit meal. Extrusion improved (P < 0.05) preference values for corn and naked oats by pigs, but had no effect on barley, rice, or wheat. In Exp. 2, the preferences of pigs for oats and barley were studied using mash and pelleted diets. Diet form did not affect preference in oats diets. However, for barley, greater preference values were obtained when measured in pelleted form compared with mash form. Additionally, direct 2-way choices were also performed between oats and barley diets and between diets presented in mash and pelleted forms. Pigs preferred barley to oats, and preferred diets presented in pelleted form to those presented in mash form. In conclusion, cereal type, inclusion rate, and diet form affected feed preference in pigs. Using cereals with greater preference values may contribute to the formulation of more palatable feeds, which enhance feed intake of piglets at critical stages such as weaning time.
18952742	In previous studies, we observed important differences in the feed preferences of pigs resulting from changes in only 1 dietary ingredient. The present experiment was conducted to study the relationship between the feed preference values of feeds reported previously and their particle size and texture characteristics. The effect of individual feed ingredients was studied when added to a common basal diet. In addition to the basal diet, which included rice, a soybean meal product containing 56% CP, sunflower oil, and wheat bran, a total of 126 diets were studied. Of these, 63 were prepared by replacing the rice in the basal diet with another cereal, 29 by replacing the soybean product with different protein sources, 19 by replacing the sunflower oil with different lipid sources, and 6 by replacing the wheat bran with different fiber sources. Cereals were studied at inclusion rates of 150, 300, and 600 g x kg(-1); protein sources were studied at 50, 100, and 200 g x kg(-1); lipids were studied at 15, 30, and 100 g x kg(-1); and fiber sources were studied at 65 and 130 g x kg(-1). The particle size profile of all the diets was determined by using a 9-screen sieve shaker. The geometric mean particle size, particle size uniformity, number of particles per gram, surface area (cm(2) x g(-1)), and percentage of fine (passing through a 250-microm sieve) and coarse particles (remaining in a 2,000-microm sieve) were calculated. The texture properties (hardness, fragility, chewing work, and adhesiveness) of the feeds were also determined by using a texture analyzer. The Pearson correlation coefficients of these variables with feed preference were as follows: geometric mean particle size (r = 0.07; P = 0.45), particle size uniformity (r = 0.16; P = 0.07), number of particles per gram (r = -0.05; P = 0.61), surface area (r = -0.07; P = 0.46), percentage of coarse particles (r = 0.04; P = 0.65), percentage of fine particles (r = -0.12; P = 0.19), hardness (r = -0.21; P = 0.02), fragility (r = -0.20; P = 0.03), chewing work (r = -0.33; P < 0.001), and adhesiveness (r = 0.02; P = 0.78). It was concluded that the texture properties of the feed could explain in part the feed preferences observed in pigs, whereas particle size characteristics had less impact.
18952778	Gibberellin 2-oxidases (GA2oxs) regulate plant growth by inactivating endogenous bioactive gibberellins (GAs). Two classes of GA2oxs inactivate GAs through 2beta-hydroxylation: a larger class of C(19) GA2oxs and a smaller class of C(20) GA2oxs. In this study, we show that members of the rice (Oryza sativa) GA2ox family are differentially regulated and act in concert or individually to control GA levels during flowering, tillering, and seed germination. Using mutant and transgenic analysis, C(20) GA2oxs were shown to play pleiotropic roles regulating rice growth and architecture. In particular, rice overexpressing these GA2oxs exhibited early and increased tillering and adventitious root growth. GA negatively regulated expression of two transcription factors, O. sativa homeobox 1 and TEOSINTE BRANCHED1, which control meristem initiation and axillary bud outgrowth, respectively, and that in turn inhibited tillering. One of three conserved motifs unique to the C(20) GA2oxs (motif III) was found to be important for activity of these GA2oxs. Moreover, C(20) GA2oxs were found to cause less severe GA-defective phenotypes than C(19) GA2oxs. Our studies demonstrate that improvements in plant architecture, such as semidwarfism, increased root systems and higher tiller numbers, could be induced by overexpression of wild-type or modified C(20) GA2oxs.
18952859	Poaceae, one of the largest flowering plant families in angiosperms, evolved distinct inflorescence and flower morphology diverging from eudicots and other monocots. However, the mechanism underlying the specification of flower morphology in grasses remains unclear. Here we show that floral zygomorphy along the lemma-palea axis in rice (Oryza sativa) is partially or indirectly determined by the CYCLOIDEA (CYC)-like homolog RETARDED PALEA1 (REP1), which regulates palea identity and development. The REP1 gene is only expressed in palea primordium during early flower development, but during later floral stages is radially dispersed in stamens and the vascular bundles of the lemma and palea. The development of palea is significantly retarded in the rep1 mutant and its palea has five vascular bundles, which is similar to the vascular pattern of the wild-type lemma. Furthermore, ectopic expression of REP1 caused the asymmetrical overdifferentiation of the palea cells, altering their floral asymmetry. This work therefore extends the function of the TCP gene family members in defining the diversification of floral morphology in grasses and suggests that a common conserved mechanism controlling floral zygomorphy by CYC-like genes exists in both eudicots and the grasses.
18952860	Retrotransposons and their remnants often constitute more than 50% of higher plant genomes. Although extensively studied in monocot crops such as maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa), the impact of retrotransposons on dicot crop genomes is not well documented. Here, we present an analysis of retrotransposons in soybean (Glycine max). Analysis of approximately 3.7 megabases (Mb) of genomic sequence, including 0.87 Mb of pericentromeric sequence, uncovered 45 intact long terminal repeat (LTR)-retrotransposons. The ratio of intact elements to solo LTRs was 8:1, one of the highest reported to date in plants, suggesting that removal of retrotransposons by homologous recombination between LTRs is occurring more slowly in soybean than in previously characterized plant species. Analysis of paired LTR sequences uncovered a low frequency of deletions relative to base substitutions, indicating that removal of retrotransposon sequences by illegitimate recombination is also operating more slowly. Significantly, we identified three subfamilies of nonautonomous elements that have replicated in the recent past, suggesting that retrotransposition can be catalyzed in trans by autonomous elements elsewhere in the genome. Analysis of 1.6 Mb of sequence from Glycine tomentella, a wild perennial relative of soybean, uncovered 23 intact retroelements, two of which had accumulated no mutations in their LTRs, indicating very recent insertion. A similar pattern was found in 0.94 Mb of sequence from Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean). Thus, autonomous and nonautonomous retrotransposons appear to be both abundant and active in Glycine and Phaseolus. The impact of nonautonomous retrotransposon replication on genome size appears to be much greater than previously appreciated.
18953406	Rice architecture is an important agronomic trait and a major limiting factor for its high productivity. Here we describe a novel CCCH-type zinc finger gene, OsLIC (Oraza sativaleaf and tiller angle increased controller), which is involved in the regulation of rice plant architecture. OsLIC encoded an ancestral and unique CCCH type zinc finge protein. It has many orthologous in other organisms, ranging from yeast to humane. Suppression of endogenous OsLIC expression resulted in drastically increased leaf and tiller angles, shortened shoot height, and consequently reduced grain production in rice. OsLIC is predominantly expressed in rice collar and tiller bud. Genetic analysis suggested that OsLIC is epistatic to d2-1, whereas d61-1 is epistatic to OsLIC. Interestingly, sterols were significantly higher in level in transgenic shoots than in the wild type. Genome-wide expression analysis indicated that brassinosteroids (BRs) signal transduction was activated in transgenic lines. Moreover, transcription of OsLIC was induced by 24-epibrassinolide. OsLIC, with a single CCCH motif, displayed binding activity to double-stranded DNA and single-stranded polyrA, polyrU and polyrG but not polyrC. It contains a novel conserved EELR domain among eukaryotes and displays transcriptional activation activity in yeast. OsLIC may be a transcription activator to control rice plant architecture.
18953524	The rice genome has proven a valuable resource for comparative approaches to address individual genomic regions in Triticeae species at the molecular level. To exploit this resource for rye genetics and breeding, an inventory was made of EST-derived markers with known genomic positions in rye, which were related with those in rice. As a first inventory set, 92 EST-SSR markers were mapped which had been drawn from a non-redundant rye EST collection representing 5,423 unigenes and 2.2 Mb of DNA. Using a BC1 mapping population which involved an exotic rye accession as donor parent, these EST-SSR markers were arranged in a linkage map together with 25 genomic SSR markers as well as 131 AFLP and four STS markers. This map comprises seven linkage groups corresponding to the seven rye chromosomes and covers 724 cM of the rye genome. For comparative studies, additional inventory sets of EST-based markers were included which originated from the rye-mapping data published by other authors. Altogether, 502 EST-based markers with known chromosomal localizations in rye were used for BlastN search and 334 of them could be in silico mapped in the rice genome. Additionally, 14 markers were included which lacked sequence information but had been genetically mapped in rice. Based on the 348 markers, each of the seven rye chromosomes could be aligned with distinct portions of the rice genome, providing improved insight into the status of the rye-rice genome relationships. Furthermore, the aligned markers provide genomic anchor points between rye and rice, enabling the identification of conserved ortholog set markers for rye. Perspectives of rice as a model for genome analysis in rye are discussed.
1895536	Study was made on the significance of urinary cadmium concentration as an indicator of internal dose in a general environment polluted by cadmium. As an index of external dose, the mean rice cadmium concentration in each of 23 villages was employed. Morning urine samples were collected from 3,178 inhabitants of 23 cadmium-polluted villages of Kakehashi River basin in Ishikawa Prefecture and 294 inhabitants of two nonpolluted villages. Cadmium concentration in urine was determined. In addition, their residential history and intake of cadmium-polluted rice were obtained. All the subjects were 50 years of age or over. Participation rates were 91% for the polluted area and 94% for the nonpolluted area. Urinary cadmium concentrations were higher in the inhabitants of the cadmium-polluted area than in those of the nonpolluted area. Among the inhabitants in the cadmium-polluted area, urinary cadmium concentrations were higher in the subjects who had consumed cadmium polluted rice than in those who had not. The mean urinary cadmium concentrations in each village increased proportionally to increase in mean village rice cadmium concentration (intensity of exposure) when the inhabitants were classified according to period of residence at their present address. The mean urinary cadmium concentrations in each village were also significantly correlated with period of residence at the present address (duration of exposure) when the inhabitants were classified according to mean rice cadmium concentration of their village. It is concluded that urinary cadmium concentration mainly reflects the body burden of cadmium in a general environment polluted by cadmium.
18955819	To investigate the lactic acid bacterial population in Korean traditional rice wines, biotyping was performed using cell morphology and whole-cell protein pattern analysis by SDSPAGE, and then the isolates were identified by 16S rRNA sequencing analysis. Based on the morphological characteristics, 103 LAB isolates were detected in wine samples, characterized by whole-cell protein pattern analysis, and they were then divided into 18 patterns. By gene sequencing of 16S rRNA, the isolates were identified as Lactobacillus paracasei, Lb. arizonensis, Lb. plantarum, Lb. harbinensis, Lb. parabuchneri, Lb. brevis, and Lb. hilgardii when listed by their frequency of occurrence. It was found that the difference in bacterial diversity between rice and grape wines depends on the raw materials, especially the composition of starch and glucose.
18956194	Rice with LD-type cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) possesses the cytoplasm of 'Lead Rice' and its fertility is recovered by a nuclear fertility restorer gene Rf1. Rf1 promotes processing of a CMS-associated mitochondrial RNA of atp6-orf79, which consists of atp6 and orf79, in BT-CMS with the cytoplasm of 'Chinsurah Boro II'. In this study, we found that LD-cytoplasm contained a sequence variant of orf79 downstream of atp6. Northern blot analysis showed that atp6-orf79 RNA of LD-cytoplasm was co-transcribed and was processed in the presence of Rf1 in the same manner as in BT-cytoplasm. Western blot analysis showed that the ORF79 peptide did not accumulate in an LD-CMS line, while ORF79 accumulated in a BT-CMS line and was diminished by Rf1. These results suggest that accumulation of ORF79 is not the cause of CMS in LD-cytoplasm and the mechanism of male-sterility induction/fertility restoration in LD-CMS is different from that in BT-CMS.
18957376	Plants need nitrate for growth and store the major part of it in the central vacuole of cells from root and shoot tissues. Based on few studies on the two model plants Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, members of the large ChLoride Channel (CLC) family have been proposed to encode anion channels/transporters involved in nitrate homeostasis. Proteins from the Arabidopsis CLC family (AtClC, comprising seven members) are present in various membrane compartments including the vacuolar membrane (AtClCa), Golgi vesicles (AtClCd and AtClCf) or chloroplast membranes (AtClCe). Through a combination of electrophysiological and genetic approaches, AtClCa was shown to function as a 2NO3-/1H+ exchanger that is able to accumulate specifically nitrate into the vacuole, in agreement with the main phenotypic trait of knockout mutant plants that accumulate 50 per cent less nitrate than their wild-type counterparts. The set-up of a functional complementation assay relying on transient expression of AtClCa cDNA in the mutant background opens the way for studies on structure-function relationships of the AtClCa nitrate transporter. Such studies will reveal whether important structural determinants identified in bacterial or mammalian CLCs are also crucial for AtClCa transport activity and regulation.
18957470	To examine and compare the characteristics of food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES) caused by rice and cow's milk/soy. Retrospective study of children presenting with FPIES to the Children's Hospital at Westmead, NSW, Australia, over a 16-year period. There were 14 children with 26 episodes of rice FPIES compared with 17 children with 30 episodes of cow's milk (n = 10) or soy (n = 7) FPIES. Children with rice FPIES were more likely to have FPIES caused by other foods (36%) than children with FPIES caused by cow's milk/soy (0%). Rice caused more episodes of FPIES before a correct diagnosis was made (median 4 (range 1-4) vs median 2 (range 1-4)) and triggered more severe reactions with higher rates of intravenous fluid resuscitation (42% vs 17%) than reactions caused by cow's milk/soy. This study highlights the emerging importance of rice, a food commonly thought to be "hypoallergenic", as a significant trigger of FPIES. Paediatricians should be aware that rice not only has the potential to cause FPIES, but that such reactions tend be more severe than those caused by cow's milk/soy.
18957756	The population structure of thermo- and mesophilic biogas reactors digesting maize silage as the sole substrate was investigated employing a novel, highly degenerated PCR-primer pair targeting mcrA/mrtA coding for the key enzyme of methanogens. No sequence affiliating with Methanococcales, Methanopyrales, ANME-, rice or fen soil clusters was detected. Direct MeA PCR-cloning results indicated that Methanobacteriales were the most important methanogens in the thermophilic reactors. 57% and 80% of the analysed sequences affiliated with this order, 14% and 20% with Methanosarcinaceae and 0% and 29% with Methanomicrobiales. Methanomicrobiales dominated in the mesophilic reactors at the given conditions, 69% and 84% of the sequences recovered from direct MeA primed cloning affiliated with this order, 31% and 0% with Methanosarcinaceae and 0% and 16% with Methanobacteriales. No sequence affiliating with Methanosaetaceae was found. MeA primed PCR-single-strand conformation polymorphism indicated that population fluctuations occurred. According to sequence analysis of excised bands, Methanosarcinaceae dominated and Methanobacteriales were significantly represented in the thermophilic fermenter. Only 1 Methanosaetaceae sequence was found. Hydrogenotrophs appear to have a much higher and obligate acetoclastic methanogens a much lower importance than previously thought in biogas production from renewable resources.
18957974	Recent progress in mapping quantitative growth traits (QTL s) in rice yields insights into mechanisms of plant growth, hints at genomic signatures of the domestication process and promotes the prospect of agricultural improvement via introgression of beneficial variants.
18957983
18958509	A major gene-rich region on the end of the long arm of Triticeae group 2 chromosomes exhibits high recombination frequencies, making it an attractive region for positional cloning. Traits known to be controlled by this region include chasmogamy/cleistogamy, frost tolerance at flowering, grain yield, head architecture, and resistance to Fusarium head blight and rusts. To assist these cloning efforts, we constructed detailed genetic maps of barley chromosome 2H, including 61 polymerase chain reaction markers. Colinearity with rice occurred in eight distinct blocks, including five blocks in the terminal gene-rich region. Alignment of rice sequences from the junctions of colinear chromosome segments provided no evidence for the involvement of long (>2.5 kb) inverted repeats in generating inversions. However, reuse of some junction sequences in two or three separate evolutionary breakage/fusion events was implicated, suggesting the presence of fragile sites. Sequencing across 91 gene fragments totaling 107 kb from four barley genotypes revealed the highest single nucleotide substitution and insertion-deletion polymorphism levels in the terminal regions of the chromosome arms. The maps will assist in the isolation of genes from the chromosome 2L gene-rich region in barley and wheat by providing markers and accelerating the identification of the corresponding points in the rice genome sequence.
18958577	Thirty-five male Afshari lambs (3.5 months old), with an average weight of 35 kg were randomly assigned to one of five experimental treatments relating to optimal replacement level of rice bran in lamb finishing diets. The lambs were fed a milled concentrate (3 mm screen) diet supplemented with 15% (DM basis) chopped (5 cm length) lucerne hay and chopped (5 cm length) maize silage or wet (80% moisture) sugar beet pulp. Barley grain in the lambs' diets was replaced by rice bran at either 0, 15, 30, 45 or 60% of the concentrate mixture on a dry matter basis. Results show that lambs fed 45 and 60% rice bran treatments weighed significantly less than those fed with 15 and 30% and control group (P < 0.05). Average daily gain in lambs fed with concentrate mixtures containing 45 and 60% rice bran were 33 and 47% lower than control, respectively (P < 0.05). Lambs that received diets containing 45 and 60% rice bran, had lower feed intake (P < 0.05) than other groups. Using rice bran in the finishing diet had no significant effect on dressing percentage, tail percentage, abdominal fat and visceral organ weights. These results suggest that barley can be replaced with rice bran up to 30% in the finishing diets of lambs without any adverse effect on lamb performance.
18958879	We analyzed the inheritance of DNA methylation in the first filial generation(F1) hybrid of Oryza sativa L. ("Nipponbare"x"Kasalath") by restriction landmark genome scanning (RLGS). Most parental RLGS spots were found in the F1, but eight spots (4%) showed abnormal inheritance: seven of the eight spots were missing in the F1, and one was newly detected in the F1. Here we show demethylation at restriction enzyme sites in the F1. We also found a candidate site of stable heterozygous methylation in the genome. These results show the applicability of the RLGS method for analysis of the inheritance and alteration of methylation in F1 hybrid plants.
18959006	By employing a recombination inbreed line (RIL) population of 247 lines derived from an inidca-inidca cross Zhenshan 97Bx Milyang 46, a linkage map consisting of 250 DNA markers was used for QTL mapping of plant height, maximum root length, root dry weight and relative water content under normal and salt stress (0.7% NaCl). Six QTLs for these traits were identified under salt stress, with 6.01%-16.50% phenotypic variations. Six QTLs for these traits were identified under normal conditions, with 4.39%-18.50% phenotypic variations. Meanwhile, root length and relative water content were simultaneously affected by two QTLs located in the interval RM246-RG101 on chromosome 1 and the interval RZ399-RG393 on chromosome 3.
18959253	A confirmatory method is presented for the determination of triadimenol residue in foods by dispersive solid phase extraction-gas chromatography-negative chemical ionization mass spectrometry (SPE-GC-NCI/MS). Triadimenol residue was extracted from different food samples, such as snow pea, carrot, orange, bean, spinach, oolong tea, rice, beef, longsnout catfish, royel jelly, red swamp crayfish, bee honey etc with acetonitrile containing 1% acetic acid and simultaneous liquid-liquid partitioning formed by adding anhydrous magnesium sulfate plus sodium acetate, followed by a simple clean-up step known by dispersive solid-phase extraction. The aliquot was determined and confirmed by gas chromatography-negative chemical ionization mass spectrometry using external standard method. The average recoveries at the three spiked levels (0.005, 0.010 and 0.020 mg/kg) in different samples ranged from 70% to 110%, and the relative standard deviations were lower than 12.0%. The linearity of detection ranged from 0.050 to 0.750 mg/L. The detection limit of the method was 0.001 mg/kg and the limit of quantification was 0.003 mg/kg. The method is selective with no interference and suitable for confirmatory of triadimenol residue in 12 categories of foods.
18959419	Nowadays, people have recognized the importance of Monascus fermented products due to their many health benefits. A previous study demonstrated a novel formulation approach for the preparation of nanoparticulate red mold rice (NRMR). The aim of this study is to determine the useability of stable NRMR dispersion by evaluating its safety and mutagenicity with the Ames test. The crude red mold rice (RMR) was processed using a wet milling technology in the presence of distilled water to form an aqueous-based nanoparticle dispersion with a mean particle size of 259.3 nm. The formulated diepersion was found to be homogeneous and exhibited unimodal particle size distribution when analyzed by dynamic laser scattering techniques. Ames test results indicated that the equivalent of up to 1 mg of ethanol extract of RMR per plate exhibited no genotoxicity toward Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98, TA 100, and TA 102. In the feeding toxicity test, the no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) of NRMR was found to be 1000 mg/kg/day for both male and female rats. In conclusion, red mold rice can be formulated as a stable nanoparticulate dispersion using wet milling technology. In vitro and in vivo safety evaluations of NRMR indicated that no mutagenic or toxic responses were observed in this study.
18962826	Air pollutant concentrations are rising in India, causing potential threats to crop production. As air pollutants are known to interfere with physiological processes, this study was conducted to assess the relative responses of physiological and biochemical characteristics of two cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Saurabh 950 and NDR 97) leading to variable yield responses. Twelve hour monitoring of ambient concentrations of SO2, NO2 and O3 in filtered chambers (FCs), non-filtered chambers (NFCs) and open plots (OPs) showed that O3 was the main pollutant at the experimental site. Ozone concentrations often exceeded 40 ppb during anthesis but not during the vegetative growth period. Photosynthetic rate (Ps), stomatal conductance (g(s)) and Fv/Fm ratio, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and peroxidase (POD) activities and photosynthetic pigments, ascorbic acid, total phenolics and protein contents were assessed at different developmental stages and yield of grains were quantified. Lipid peroxidation, SOD and POD activities, ascorbic acid and total phenolics were higher, whereas Ps, g(s), Fv/Fm ratio and contents of protein and photosynthetic pigment were lower in plants of NFCs as compared to FCs. Yield decreased significantly in both cultivars grown in NFCs. NDR 97 showed less reductions in physiological characteristics, photosynthetic pigments and protein, but a greater increase in the antioxidative defense system as compared to Saurabh 950. Yield reduction was higher in NDR 97 than in Saurabh 950. This suggested that NDR 97 utilized more photosynthate in maintaining the metabolic machinery against O3 stress leading to lower translocation of photosynthate to reproductive parts. The study concluded that under natural field conditions, physiological and biochemical responses of plants varied with pollutant concentrations leading to different translocation strategies in plants, modifying their yield responses. NDR 97, a fast growing and high yielding cultivar was more sensitive than slow growing Saurabh 950.
1896382	Dehydration, in childhood as in adulthood, may origin from an inadequate water ingestion or an excessive water elimination. Causes may be found in fever, vomiting, scalds, pulmonary hyperventilation, diabetes. Water loss during acute diarrhea in children can be even 6-7 times higher in comparison with an healthy child. Together with water, electrolytes are lost. We differentiate dehydration in isonatremic d. (70% of cases), hyponatremic d. (10%) and hypernatremic d. (20%) basing on Sodium loss. Important dehydration causes severe clinical symptoms as shock, renal and cardiocirculatory failure, convulsion, coma. Symptoms at the central nervous system level derivate both from hyperosmolarity in brain cells and from thrombosis or hemorrhages in subdural sites. Dehydration, following acute diarrhea, is slight when weight loss is lower than 5%. The child health conditions still remain good. Dehydration become moderate if weight loss reaches 5% and the child starts suffering. When the weight loss reaches 10%, dehydration is now severe and circulatory deficiency becomes evident. When it is higher than 10%, prognosis is very severe and shock and coma may be observed. In the present work, we illustrate the different ways of rehydration after acute diarrhea. Initially, oral rehydration must be established with one of the oral solutions, differing each other for amount of electrolytes and glucose. Recently, a new solution, "supersolution", has been presented differing from the other ones for electrolytes concentration and for the presence of rice starch instead of glucose. In most cases of diarrhea, oral rehydration appears adequate but sometimes an intravenous rehydration becomes necessary, e.g. in case of vomiting, CNS depression and in any case of severe gastroenteric symptomatology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1896383	As acute diarrhoea gives rise to a loss of water and electrolytes, the most effective therapy results the oral rehydration. Harrison and Darrow tried this way first. Only in the years '60 we began to use oral rehydration commonly. Usually, solutions contain glucose, Na, K, Cl, Bicarbonate in various concentration. When glucose is replaced by rice starch or when amino acid are added, then we have a "supersolution". Nutrients intake provides more calories and increases absorption Na-depending. We used one of these new "supersolutions". Two groups of children, hospitalised for acute diarrhoea, were treated with different rehydration solutions. The first one (Dicodral Forte), prepared according to the WHO, contains glucose and electrolytes as we know. The second one (Amidral) has rice starch instead of glucose and presents a lower concentration of Na and Cl. The present study looked over: A) Weight increase from the first to the third day of hospitalisation in our department. B) Duration of diarrhea. C) Number of stools. D) Haematological values before and after rehydration. All the patients ingested the same amount of solution. Children which received WHO's solution presented diarrhea longer than others (2.55 +/- 2.06 vs 2.2 +/- 1.1 days). Number of stools was below average too (3.05 +/- 2.64 vs 2.8 +/- 1.5). Refeeding was done employing the same milk used in former times. AMIDRAL was used to dilute the milk when it was possible. Most important result is the increase of weight we had using this "supersolution". 15/20 children which received AMIDRAL showed an increase of their weight as shown in Tab. 1.
18965772	An electroanalytical method, based on derivative chronopotentiometry of the copper complex with 4-[(4-diethylamino-2-hydroxyphenyl) azo]-5-hydroxy-naphthalene-2,7-disulphonic acid (Beryllon III) accumulated on the surface of a hanging mercury drop electrode, for determining trace copper in food has been developed. The dependence of the peak height of reduction of the copper complex on the preconcentration time and preconcentration potential are discussed. Optimum experimental conditions include 0.01 M HOAc, 0.01M NaOAc, 1.0 x 10(-6) Beryllon III and a preconcentration potential of 0.10 V (vs. SCE). Under these conditions the detection limit and the linear range are 4 x 10(-11)M and 6 x 10(-11) -4 x 10(-7)M, respectively. The method was applied to samples of digested rice.
18965921	A reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic separation and determination of beryllium(II), aluminium(III) and chromium(III) with chromotrope 2C chelates on a C18-bonded stationary phase is reported. Methanol-water (45:55 v/v) containing 6 x 10(-3)M tetra-n-butylammonium bromide (TBAB) and 2 x 10(-2)M acetate buffer solution (pH 6.0) as mobile phase and with spectrophotometric detection at 530 nm was applied. The method has high sensitivity, the detection limits being 0.2 ppb for beryllium(I), 1 ppb for aluminium(III) and 2 ppb for chromium(III). Under the optimum conditions, most other metal ions did not interfere, e.g. up to 2 mg of Hg(II), Sn(II, IV), Pb(II), Bi(III), Ag(I), Zn(II), Cd(II), Cu(II), 1.5 mg of Fe(II), Co(II), Ni(II), 1.2 mg of Ca(II), Mg(II), Sr(II), Ba(II), 1 mg of Ga(III), In(III), 0.5 mg of Fe(III), 1 mg of Ga(III), In(III), 0.5 mg of Fe(III), 0.4 mg of Th(IV), Zr(IV). The method can be applied to the simultaneous determination of trace amounts of beryllium(II), aluminium(III) and chromium(III), in water, rice, flour and human hair samples.
18966187	A new on-line preconcentration flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) system for trace element determination was developed based on sorption of soluble metal complexes on the walls of a PTFE knotted reactor using flow injection techniques. The system was applied to the determination of cadmium in biological materials. Cadmium complexed with sodium diethyldithiocarbamate was sorbed on the inner walls of the reactor and eluted on-line by isobutyl methyl ketone. The retention efficiency was 81% at a sampling loading rate of 5.2 ml/min. The enhancement factor was 66 and the concentration efficiency was 61/min with a 50 sec preconcentration period, consuming 4.2 ml sample. A detection limit of 0.1 mug/l. Cd (3sigma) was obtained with a sampling frequency of 55/hr. The precisions were 1.2% RSD for 20 mug/l. Cd (N = 11). Thiourea and ascorbic acid/phenanthroline were used to overcome interferences from copper and iron, respectively. The analytical results obtained for powdered rice and human hair standard reference materials were in good agreement with the certified values.
18966465	A d.c. polarographic technique has been used previously for the determination of the pesticide, ziram, in aqueous samples, this paper reports differential pulse anodic stripping voltammetric determination of ziram zinc in rice samples using a static mercury drop electrode. The procedure developed distinguishes inorganic zinc and ziram zinc in sodium acetate-sodium chloride media. The procedure developed is suitable for the determination of concentrations as low as 10 ppb of ziram with a precision of 2.1% for five successive determinations of 150 ppb of ziram.
18966632	Four starches obtained from different sources were treated to thermal analysis and their mechanisms of degradation were deciphered using a rising temperature method of evaluation. A comparison of the solid state reactivity between the four starches was made, using a method known as the alpha(s)-alpha(r) method. By this method, it was possible to differentiate between four starches of completely different plant origin. Potato starch and rice starch were found to have the highest reactivity.
18967238	The electrochemical methods cyclic, differential pulse and square wave voltammetry were applied to develop an electroanalytical procedure for the determination of the herbicide bentazon in a commercial product, containing bentazon as the active ingredient, used to treat rice and corn crops. The oxidation mechanism is complex, consisting of an electrochemical step followed by chemical dimerization reaction of the products, which causes severe adsorption problems and consequent poisoning of the electrode surface. The effect of adding Triton surfactant is to enable determinations with good reproducibility to be carried out; the analytical conditions were studied and optimized. The limit of detection obtained was 10(-5) M.
18967574	The electrochemical characteristics of deltamethrin have been determined by means of electrochemical techniques such as d.c. polarography, cyclic voltammetry and differential pulse polarography over a wide range of pH from 2.0-12.0. The title compound exhibits a single well defined peak due to the reduction of the CC moiety present in deltamethrin. The overall reduction process is diffusion-controlled and adsorption free in nature. The variation of half-wave potential with the pH, concentration of the title compound, and other experimental conditions is described. A possible mechanism for the reduction is suggested. The number of electrons involved in the electrode reduction is two. Investigation was also undertaken for the determination of deltamethrin in vegetables and in storage bags of rice and wheat under FCI's storage system.
18967922	Isotopic dilution for the determination of Ag, Cd, Hg, Pb and Tl in biological materials by ETV-ICP-MS is proposed. The sample was simply dissolved with tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH) or acid digested in a microwave furnace, with an on line matrix separation. When the dissolution was employed, Ir was used as a chemical modifier for Hg and Pb and Pd was used for Cd and Tl. No modifier was used for Ag. The pyrolysis temperatures were taken from pyrolysis temperature curves. The on line preconcentration was performed in a flow injection system with solenoid valves and was based on the analyte complexation with ammonium diethyldithiophosphate and sorption of the complexes on C(18) bonded to silica gel in a minicolumn. For the digested sample submitted to the analyte preconcentration procedure, a modifier, Ir, was only used for Hg. For the other analytes, since a low pyrolysis temperature, 300 degrees C, was employed, no modifier was added. The isotopic dilution calibration was applied to two certified materials, bovine liver and dog fish muscle, dissolved with TMAH or acid digested, and to another two certified materials, corn bran and rice flour, acid digested and submitted to analyte preconcentration. The obtained concentration values agree with the certified ones, showing that this calibration procedure leads to accurate results in the determination of low concentrations of volatile elements. Due to simplicity, the dissolution with TMAH is very attractive.
18968308	The direct determination of trace sodium by microwave induced plasma atomic emission spectrometry (MIP-AES) in water-soluble organic substances utilized in pharmaceutical preparations was developed. No decomposition of the organic constituents was required. Samples were dissolved with water and introduced to the plasma after ultrasonic nebulization without desolvation. A limit of detection (3sigma) of 0.91-3.0 ng ml(-1) was obtained under experimental conditions. The quantitative MIP-AES procedure involved the standard addition method. The sodium content determined in reference material NIST SRM 1568A Rice Flour agreed with the certified value (6.6+/-0.8 mug g(-1)). Physical and chemical interferences were investigated. It was found for the microwave plasma that it is possible to introduce organic substances solutions of concentration up to 5% without sensitivity losses. This direct technique is fast and sensitive and helps to reduce contamination connected with the sample preparation procedure.
18968432	Based on gaseous compound introduction as 1-phenyl-3-methyl-4-benzoylpyrazolone[5](PMBP) chelate of aluminum by electrothermal vaporization in ICP-AES, a method for determination of trace aluminum was developed. Trace aluminum was vaporized at temperature of 1000 degrees C, and the vaporization behavior of aluminum chelate was detailedly investigated. Under the optimum conditions, the detection limit of aluminum was 0.6 ng ml(-1), and the relative standard deviation for 0.1 mug ml(-1) aluminum was 4.7% (n=8). The proposed method was applied to the determination of trace aluminum in rice flour reference materials, and the results well agreed with the reference values.
18968746	This review deals with environmental origin, occurrence, episodes, and impact on human health of arsenic. Arsenic, a metalloid occurs naturally, being the 20th most abundant element in the earth's crust, and is a component of more than 245 minerals. These are mostly ores containing sulfide, along with copper, nickel, lead, cobalt, or other metals. Arsenic and its compounds are mobile in the environment. Weathering of rocks converts arsenic sulfides to arsenic trioxide, which enters the arsenic cycle as dust or by dissolution in rain, rivers, or groundwater. So, groundwater contamination by arsenic is a serious threat to mankind all over the world. It can also enter food chain causing wide spread distribution throughout the plant and animal kingdoms. However, fish, fruits, and vegetables primarily contain organic arsenic, less than 10% of the arsenic in these foods exists in the inorganic form, although the arsenic content of many foods (i.e. milk and dairy products, beef and pork, poultry, and cereals) is mainly inorganic, typically 65-75%. A few recent studies report 85-95% inorganic arsenic in rice and vegetables, which suggest more studies for standardisation. Humans are exposed to this toxic arsenic primarily from air, food, and water. Thousands and thousands of people are suffering from the toxic effects of arsenicals in many countries all over the world due to natural groundwater contamination as well as industrial effluent and drainage problems. Arsenic, being a normal component of human body is transported by the blood to different organs in the body, mainly in the form of MMA after ingestion. It causes a variety of adverse health effects to humans after acute and chronic exposures such as dermal changes (pigmentation, hyperkeratoses, and ulceration), respiratory, pulmonary, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, hematological, hepatic, renal, neurological, developmental, reproductive, immunologic, genotoxic, mutagenetic, and carcinogenic effects. Key research studies are needed for improving arsenic risk assessment at low exposure levels urgently among all the arsenic research groups.
18969189	In the present paper, a system for on-line preconcentration and determination of copper by flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) was developed. It was based on solid phase extraction of copper(II) ions on a minicolumn of Amberlite XAD-2 loaded with 2-(2-thiazolylazo)-5-dimethylaminophenol (TAM). The optimisation process was carried out using Doehlert designs. Four variables (sampling flow rate, SR; elution flow rate, buffer concentration, BC; and pH) were regarded as factors in the optimisation. The parameter "sensitivity efficiency (SE)" proposed in this paper, and defined as the analytical signal obtained for an on-line enrichment system for a preconcentration time of 1 min was used as analytical response in the optimisation process. Using the established experimental conditions, the proposed on-line system allowed determination of copper with detection limit (3sigma/S) of 0.23 mug l(-1), and a precision (repeatability), calculated as relative standard deviation (R.S.D.) of 3.9 and 3.7% for copper concentration of 5.00 and 20.00 mug l(-1), respectively. The preconcentration factor obtained is 62. The recovery achieved for copper determination in presence of several cations demonstrated that this has enough selectivity for analysis of food samples. The robustness of the proposed system was also evaluated. The accuracy was confirmed by analysis of the following certified reference materials (CRMs): Rice flour NIES 10a, Spinach leaves NIST 1570a, Apples leaves NIST 1515 and Orchard leaves NBS 1571. This procedure was applied for copper determination in natural food samples.
18969232	An on-line system for preconcentration and determination of copper at mug l(-1) level by flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) is proposed. Amberlite XAD-2 functionalized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid packed in a minicolumn was used as sorbent. Copper(II) ions were sorbed in the minicolumn, from which it could be eluted by hydrochloric acid solution directly to the nebulizer-burner system of the FAAS. Eluent solution was carried by water at a flow rate of 5.00 ml min(-1). Signals were measured as peak height by using an instrument software. Achieved sampling rate was 27 samples per hour. Analytical parameters were evaluated and the results demonstrated that copper can be determined, with acetate buffer to adjust the sample pH at 6.0, preconcentration time of 120 s and a sample flow rate of 6.50 ml min(-1). The desorption was carried out with 30 mul of a 1.0 mol l(-1) hydrochloric acid solution. An enrichment factor of 33 in 13.00 ml of sample (120 s preconcentration time) was achieved by using the time-based technique. The detection limit (DL) (3 s) was 0.27 mug l(-1) and the precision (assessed as the relative standard deviation) reached values of 5.7-1.1% in copper solutions of 5.00 to 50.00 mug l(-1) concentration, respectively. The accuracy of procedure was confirmed by copper determination in certified reference materials. Recoveries of spike additions (1.0 or 2.0 mug g(-1)) to food samples were quantitative (90.0-110.0%). These results proved also that the procedure is not affected by matrix interference and can be applied satisfactorily for copper determination in rice flour and starch samples.
18969703	This paper studied the chemical characteristics of rice paper, pigments and seals on Chinese calligraphies and traditional Chinese paintings. The techniques used here were Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction (XRD). FT-IR allows good identification of the substances present in pigments and inkpads and differentiates each era of rice paper. This can be the base of estimating the age of rice paper. Different crystalline phases can be identified by XRD, which is further evidence to separate different kinds of pigments or inkpads. Both of these methods were non-destructive in situ analysis and can be used in the identification in calligraphies and traditional Chinese paintings. These results confirmed that the applied techniques are relatively quicker and more reliable than traditional approaches authenticated by years of experience.
18969742	An acid urease column was applied to a fluorometric flow-injection analysis (FIA) system as a recognition element for determination of urea in rice wines. The acid urease has specific properties of showing its catalytic activity in low pH range and tolerance to ethanol in comparison to those of a urease from jack-beans. The enzymes were covalently immobilized onto porous glass beads with controlled pore size and then, packed into a small polymer column. The flow-type of the biosensing system was assembled with a sample injection valve, the immobilized enzyme column, and a flow-through quartz cell attached to a fluorescent spectrophotometer. Citrate buffer (50mM, pH 5.0) as the carrier solution was continuously pumped through the system. Sample solutions were introduced into the system via a rotary injection valve. A standard urea solution was measured through monitoring variations in fluorescent intensity attributable to fluorescent isoindole derivatives formed by coupling with ammonia molecules released in the enzymatic hydrolysis of urea and orthophthalaldehyde reagents. The fluorescent intensity was measured under the conditions of lambda(ex) = 415nm and lambda(em) = 485nm. A wide, linear relationship was obtained between the concentration of urea (1.0-100muM) and the variation in fluorescent intensity. The monitoring did not suffer from ethanol and various amino acids contained in rice wines. Real samples pretreated with ion exchange resins for removal of endogenous ammonia were introduced into the FIA system and urea in the samples was determined. These results were compared with those obtained with use of an F-kit method. The proposed FIA system should present sensitive, selective and convenient analysis of urea in alcoholic beverages.
18970836	Silicon is an essential trace element and is found in vegetables, fruits, cereals, water, pasta and rice (Oryza sativa). In this work, the silica content of different types of rice grains were measured. Here, we used the heteropoly blue photometric method with a double beam UV-vis spectrophotometer to determine the amount of silicon in rice samples (n=7) that were collected in the north of Iran. The samples were digested with wet-ashing method by microwave-assisted heating and then treated with ammonium molybdate to produce a yellow color compound in acidic solution (ca. pH 1.2) and then reduced to give a heteropoly compound with a blue color. Analyses were performed using standard addition method and absorbance values were measured with double beam UV-vis spectrophotometer at lambda(max)=815nm. Results indicated that the silica content was 307-451mg/kg for the samples. X-ray diffraction patterns and infra-red spectra were obtained from rice samples without any sample treatment.
18971307	Natural antisense transcripts (NATs) have been shown to play important roles in post-transcriptional regulation through the RNA interference pathway. We have combined pyrophosphate-based high-throughput sequencing and computational analysis to identify and analyze, in genome scale, cis-NAT and trans-NAT small RNAs that are derived under normal conditions and in response to drought and salt stresses in the staple plant Oryza sativa. Computationally, we identified 344 cis-NATs and 7,142 trans-NATs that are formed by protein-coding genes. From the deep sequencing data, we found 108 cis-NATs and 7,141 trans-NATs that gave rise to small RNAs from their overlapping regions. Consistent with early findings, the majority of these 108 cis-NATs seem to be associated with specific conditions or developmental stages. Our analyses also revealed several interesting results. The overlapping regions of the cis-NATs and trans-NATs appear to be more enriched with small RNA loci than non-overlapping regions. The small RNAs generated from cis-NATs and trans-NATs have a length bias of 21 nt, even though their lengths spread over a large range. Furthermore, >40% of the small RNAs from cis-NATs and trans-NATs carry an A as their 5'-terminal nucleotides. A substantial portion of the transcripts are involved in both cis-NATs and trans-NATs, and many trans-NATs can form many-to-many relationships, indicating that NATs may form complex regulatory networks in O. sativa. This study is the first genome-wide investigation of NAT-derived small RNAs in O. sativa. It reveals the importance of NATs in biogenesis of small RNAs and broadens our understanding of the roles of NAT-derived small RNAs in gene regulation, particularly in response to environmental stimuli.
18973799	A bidirectional promoter can regulate the expression of two flanking genes arranged in a divergent manner. Although reports pertaining to bidirectional promoters on a genomic scale exist in mammals, little progress has been made in plants. In the present study, we performed a computational analysis of this unique class of promoters to identify overrepresented cis-regulatory motifs from three sequenced plant genomes: rice (Oryza sativa), Arabidopsis thaliana, and Populus trichocarpa using the Plant Cis-acting Regulatory DNA Elements (PLACE) and PLANT CARE databases. We describe these overrepresented elements and their possible regulatory mechanisms. We also discuss similarities and differences with human bidirectional promoters. Furthermore, we describe in detail a few coexpressed and evolutionarily conserved divergent gene pairs and their bidirectional promoters. This study provides insights into bidirectional promoters in three plant species, thereby laying a foundation for their experimental analysis.
18974082	A 40-year follow-up study was conducted to examine mortality among 1,664 patients in Japan suffering from "Yusho," a disease caused by ingestion of rice oil contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls and polychlorinated dibenzofurans. To evaluate the effects of exposure on mortality, the authors calculated standardized mortality ratios. National mortality rates for major causes of death were used as reference points. A total of 1,596 Yusho patients (95.9%) were followed until death or the end of the study (December 31, 2007). The standardized mortality ratios for most major causes of death were not significantly elevated, with the exceptions of all types of cancer (standardized mortality ratio (SMR) = 1.37, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.11, 1.66), liver cancer (SMR = 1.82, 95% CI: 1.06, 2.91), and lung cancer (SMR = 1.75, 95% CI: 1.14, 2.57) in males. In addition, the standardized mortality ratios for all cancers, liver cancer, and lung cancer among males tended to decrease over time. Results from this study suggest that the carcinogenicity of polychlorinated biphenyls and polychlorinated dibenzofurans must be taken into account when evaluating mortality risk.
18974101	Submergence is a recurring problem in the rice-producing rainfed lowlands of south and south-east Asia. Developing rice cultivars with tolerance of submergence and with agronomic and quality traits acceptable to farmers is a feasible approach to address this problem. The objectives of this study were to (a) develop mega varieties with Sub1 introgression that are submergence tolerant, (b) assess the performance of Sub1 in different genetic backgrounds, (c) determine the roles of the Sub1A and Sub1C genes in conferring tolerance, and (d) assess the level of tolerance in F(1) hybrids heterozygous for the Sub1A-1-tolerant allele. Tolerant varieties were developed by marker-assisted backcrossing through two or three backcrosses, and their performance was evaluated to determine the effect of Sub1 in different genetic backgrounds. The roles of Sub1A and Sub1C in conferring the tolerant phenotype were further investigated using recombinants identified within the Sub1 gene cluster based on survival and gene expression data. All mega varieties with Sub1 introgression had a significantly higher survival rate than the original parents. An intolerant Sub1C allele combined with the tolerant Sub1A-1 allele did not significantly reduce the level of tolerance, and the Sub1C-1 expression appeared to be independent of the Sub1A allele; however, even when Sub1C-1 expression is completely turned off in the presence of Sub1A-2, plants remained intolerant. Survival rates and Sub1A expression were significantly lower in heterozygotes compared with the homozygous tolerant parent. Sub1 provided a substantial enhancement in the level of tolerance of all the sensitive mega varieties. Sub1A is confirmed as the primary contributor to tolerance, while Sub1C alleles do not seem important. Lack of dominance of Sub1 suggests that the Sub1A-1 allele should be carried by both parents for developing tolerant rice hybrids.
18974168	In most quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping studies, phenotypes are assumed to follow normal distributions. Deviations from this assumption may affect the accuracy of QTL detection and lead to detection of spurious QTLs. To improve the robustness of QTL mapping methods, we replaced the normal distribution for residuals in multiple interacting QTL models with the normal/independent distributions that are a class of symmetric and long-tailed distributions and are able to accommodate residual outliers. Subsequently, we developed a Bayesian robust analysis strategy for dissecting genetic architecture of quantitative traits and for mapping genome-wide interacting QTLs in line crosses. Through computer simulations, we showed that our strategy had a similar power for QTL detection compared with traditional methods assuming normal-distributed traits, but had a substantially increased power for non-normal phenotypes. When this strategy was applied to a group of traits associated with physical/chemical characteristics and quality in rice, more main and epistatic QTLs were detected than traditional Bayesian model analyses under the normal assumption.
18974620	Parenteral vaccines are used commonly against most of infectious diseases. It is noted that these injection type vaccines are meant to induce protective immunity in the systemic compartment but not aimed at use of the benefits of mucosal immunity as a first line of defense against mucosal infectious diseases such as AIDS, SARS and Influenza. In addition, one of major practical obstacles to current vaccination is storage of the vaccine under refrigeration (or cold-chain) in the developing countries. To overcome these concerns, a plant-based vaccine is considered to be an attractive strategy. Currently, we have developed a rice-based oral vaccine that offers significant advantages over available vaccines. In the rice-based vaccine MucoRice, cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) as the vaccine antigen was accumulated in protein bodies as rice seed storage organella. When orally fed, rice seeds expressing CTB were taken up by the M cells covering the Peyer's patches (PPs), and inducing toxin-specific serum IgG and mucosal IgA antibodies with neutralizing activity. Further, MuocRice CTB remained stable state and maintained immunogenicity at room temperature for 1.5 years and was protected from pepsin digestion in vitro. Taken together, these findings suggest that MucoRice does not require needle/syringe and cold-chain but induces two layers of immunity in both mucosal and systemic compartments, which is the most effective and highly practical global vaccine to combat emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases.
18975813	In order to boost the study and application of hyperspectral remote sensing for the estimation of crop vegetation coverage percentage, an ASD FieldSpec Pro FRTM spectroradiometer was used for canopy spectral measurements of rape, corn and rice at different vegetation cover levels and photos of individual plants were taken simultaneously in order to calculate the vegetation cover percentage in computer. Firstly, data of three crops respectively and the mixed data of them were used to make correlation analysis between vegetation coverage percentage and reflectance spectra There was a high correlation between them and no obvious difference in correlation coefficient among different types of crop in the region of blue, red and near-infrared band. This indicated that it was feasible to make correlation analysis and build estimation model using mixed data Secondly, mixed data were used as unique analytical data to calculate red edge variables and pair combination of bands in the region of blue, red and near-infrared band was used to calculate normal difference vegetation index (NDVI). Hyperspectral estimation models with NDVI and red edge variable as independent variable were built individually. The correlation coefficient of the former was larger than the latter, which indicated that NDVI was most effective for the estimation of vegetation coverage percentage. Effective wavelength combinations of NDVI for vegetation cover percentage estimation were determined based on the principle of higher correlation coefficient. NDVI combined with bands in the regions from 350 to 590 nm and from 710 to 1150 nm or bands in the regions from 590 to 710 nm and from 710 to 1300 nm are most effective for vegetation coverage percentage estimation. The best estimation model is simple quadratic equation using NDVI(696-921) as independent variable. The correlation coefficient matrix shows that most of the correlation coefficients of vegetation coverage percentage and NDVI combined with bands in the regions from 630 to 690 nm and from 760 to 900 nm are larger than 0.8. These two band regions correspond to TM3 and TM4 of landsat 4,5,7. It proves that NDVI(TM3-TM4) can be used to and has been used to simulate vegetation coverage percentage. In order to further the study, TM3 and TM4 of Landsat5 was modeled according to spectral response function to calculate NDVI. Correlation analysis was made with NDVI and corresponding vegetation coverage percentage. The correlation coefficient of them was 0.80 and the regression equation was verified by experimental data. This is exploratory research for the calculation of vegetation coverage percentage using TM data in large area.
18975815	In order to compare the prediction powers between the best statistical model and SVM technique using each VI for rice LAI, the VIs are as independent variables in statistical models and are as net inputs in SVM, and the rice LAI are as dependent variables in statistical models and are as net outputs in SVM. Hyperspectral reflectance (350 to 2500 nm) data were recorded in two experiments involving four replicates of two rice cultivars ("Xiushui 110" and "Xieyou 9308"), three nitrogen levels (0, 120, 240 kg x ha(-1) N), and with a plant density of 45 plants x m(-2). The first experiment was seeded on 30 May 2004 and the second experiment on 15 June 2004. Both sets of seedlings were transplanted to the field one month later. Hyperspectral reflectance was ground-based and measured using Analytical Spectral Devices and 1 meter above the rice canopy. The solar angle compared to nadir was for all measurements less than 45 degrees and no disturbing clouds were observed. Hyperspectral reflectance was transformed to ten different vegetation indices including RVI, NDVI, NDVIgreen, SAVI, OSAVI, MSAVI, MCACI, TCARI/OSAVI, RDVI and RVI2, according to the width of TM bands of Ladsat-5. Different statistical models including linearity model, exponent model, power model and logarithm model, were analyzed using all samples' LAI and vegetation indices. Three good relationships including exponent relationship of NDVIgreen, power relationship of TCARI/OSAVI and power relationship of RV12 were selected based on the R2 of models. These three relationships were used to predict the LAI of rice through SVM models with different kernel functions including an analysis of variance kernel (ANOVA), a polynomial kernel (POLY) and a radial basic function kernel (RBF), and corresponding statistical models. The results show that all SVM models have lower RMSE values and higher estimation precision than corresponding statistical models; SVM with POLY kernel function using TCARI/OSAVI has the highest estimation precision for rice LAI compared to other models, and it's RMSE value is lower than corresponding statistical model by 11 percent points. Therefore, SVM has a high accuracy for learning and a good robustness for estimation of LAI of rice using hyperspectral data. Consequently, SVM provides a useful explorative tool for improvement of the relationships between VIs and rice LAI.
18976482	The challenges of accurate gene prediction and enumeration are further aggravated in large genomes that contain highly repetitive transposable elements (TEs). Yet TEs play a substantial role in genome evolution and are themselves an important subject of study. Repeat annotation, based on counting occurrences of k-mers, has been previously used to distinguish TEs from low-copy genic regions; but currently available software solutions are impractical due to high memory requirements or specialization for specific user-tasks. Here we introduce the Tallymer software, a flexible and memory-efficient collection of programs for k-mer counting and indexing of large sequence sets. Unlike previous methods, Tallymer is based on enhanced suffix arrays. This gives a much larger flexibility concerning the choice of the k-mer size. Tallymer can process large data sizes of several billion bases. We used it in a variety of applications to study the genomes of maize and other plant species. In particular, Tallymer was used to index a set of whole genome shotgun sequences from maize (B73) (total size 109 bp.). We analyzed k-mer frequencies for a wide range of k. At this low genome coverage (approximately 0.45x) highly repetitive 20-mers constituted 44% of the genome but represented only 1% of all possible k-mers. Similar low-complexity was seen in the repeat fractions of sorghum and rice. When applying our method to other maize data sets, High-C0t derived sequences showed the greatest enrichment for low-copy sequences. Among annotated TEs, the most highly repetitive were of the Ty3/gypsy class of retrotransposons, followed by the Ty1/copia class, and DNA transposons. Among expressed sequence tags (EST), a notable fraction contained high-copy k-mers, suggesting that transposons are still active in maize. Retrotransposons in Mo17 and McC cultivars were readily detected using the B73 20-mer frequency index, indicating their conservation despite extensive rearrangement across cultivars. Among one hundred annotated bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs), k-mer frequency could be used to detect transposon-encoded genes with 92% sensitivity, compared to 96% using alignment-based repeat masking, while both methods showed 92% specificity. The Tallymer software was effective in a variety of applications to aid genome annotation in maize, despite limitations imposed by the relatively low coverage of sequence available. For more information on the software, see http://www.zbh.uni-hamburg.de/Tallymer.
18976500	Protein-protein interaction (PPI) maps are useful tools for investigating the cellular functions of genes. Thus far, large-scale PPI mapping projects have not been implemented for the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea, which is responsible for the most severe rice disease. Inspired by recent advances in PPI prediction, we constructed a PPI map of this important fungus. Using a well-recognized interolog approach, we have predicted 11,674 interactions among 3,017 M. grisea proteins. Although the scale of the constructed map covers approximately only one-fourth of the M. grisea's proteome, it is the first PPI map for this crucial organism and will therefore provide new insights into the functional genomics of the rice blast fungus. Focusing on the network topology of proteins encoded by known pathogenicity genes, we have found that pathogenicity proteins tend to interact with higher numbers of proteins. The pathogenicity proteins and their interacting partners in the entire network were then used to construct a subnet called a pathogenicity network. These data may provide further clues for the study of these pathogenicity proteins. Finally, it has been established that secreted proteins in M. grisea interact with fewer proteins. These secreted proteins and their interacting partners were also compiled into a network of secreted proteins, which may be helpful in constructing an interactome between the rice blast fungus and rice. We predicted the PPIs of M. grisea and compiled them into a database server called MPID. It is hoped that MPID will provide new hints as to the functional genomics of this fungus. MPID is available at http://bioinformatics.cau.edu.cn/zzd_lab/MPID.html.
18976553	The spread of resistance to pyrethroids in the major Afrotropical malaria vectors Anopheles gambiae s.s. necessitates the development of new strategies to control resistant mosquito populations. To test the efficacy of nets treated with repellent and insecticide against susceptible and insecticide-resistant An. gambiae mosquito populations, we impregnated mosquito bed nets with an insect repellent mixed with a low dose of organophosphorous insecticide and tested them in a rice-growing area near Bobo-Dioulasso, Burkina Faso. During the first 2 weeks posttreatment, the mixture was as effective as deltamethrin alone and was more effective at killing An. gambiae that carried knockdown resistance (kdr) or insensitive acetylcholinesterase resistance (Ace1R) genes. The mixture seemed to not kill more susceptible genotypes for the kdr or Ace1R alleles. Mixing repellents and organophosphates on bed nets could be used to control insecticide-resistant malaria vectors if residual activity of the mixture is extended and safety is verified.
18976743	The people of the Yayoi period (5th C b.c.-3rd C a.d.), who were the first wet-rice agriculturalists in ancient Japan, had carious lesions that were most frequently located on the root surfaces of their teeth. Root surface exposure is a prerequisite for this type of decay, and alveolar bone loss is the main cause of such exposure. Therefore, we identify the factors associated with root caries, and examine the relationship between root caries and alveolar bone loss in the people of the Yayoi period. This study was performed using 263 sets of ancient skeletal remains that are believed to be from the Yayoi period and that were excavated at 49 archaeological sites in western Japan. Using 5010 teeth found among the remains, we analysed the relationship between the prevalence of root caries and the cemento-enamel junction-alveolar crest (CEJ-AC) distance. The prevalence of root caries and the mean number of teeth with root caries per person were significantly correlated with age, the presence of coronal caries and the mean CEJ-AC distance per person. We also found that as the mean CEJ-AC distance per tooth surface increased, the percentage of the root surface affected by caries increased. Moreover, after excluding the lingual (palatal) side, the mean CEJ-AC distance per surface was significantly greater for those tooth surfaces with root caries. We present the first evidence that the occurrence of root caries correlated with the CEJ-AC distance in the Yayoi people of Japan.
18978069	Root symbioses with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and rhizobial bacteria share a common signaling pathway in legumes. Among the common symbiosis genes are CASTOR and POLLUX, the twin homologous genes in Lotus japonicus that encode putative ion channel proteins. Here, we show that the orthologs of CASTOR and POLLUX are ubiquitously present and highly conserved in both legumes and nonlegumes. Using rice (Oryza sativa) as a study system, we employ reverse genetic tools (knockout mutants and RNA interference) to demonstrate that Os-CASTOR and Os-POLLUX are indispensable for mycorrhizal symbiosis in rice. Furthermore, a cross-species complementation test indicates that Os-POLLUX can restore nodulation, but not rhizobial infection, to a Medicago truncatula dmi1 mutant.
18979037	The multi-channel thermal unimolecular decomposition of glyoxal was experimentally investigated in the temperature range 1106 K < T < 2320 K and at total densities of 1.7 x 10(-6) mol cm(-3) < rho < 1.9 x 10(-5) mol cm(-3) by monitoring HCO (frequency modulation spectroscopy, FMS), (CHO)(2) (UV absorption), and H atom (atom resonance absorption spectroscopy, H-ARAS) concentration-time profiles behind shock waves. With a branching fraction of 48% at T = 2300 K and rho = 1.6 x 10(-5) mol cm(-3), the so-far-neglected, energetically unfavourable HCO-forming decomposition channel, (CHO)(2)--> 2HCO, was found to play a crucial role and in fact represents the major decomposition pathway at high temperatures and high total densities. A theoretical analysis of the experimental results in terms of Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory (RRKM), the simplified statistical adiabatic channel model (SACM), and an energy-grained master equation (ME) was based on input parameters from ab initio calculations (G3 and MP2/6-311G(d,p)) and literature data on branching ratios from collision-free photolysis experiments. A consistent description of the temperature and density dependences was achieved, revealing that both rotational and weak collision effects are reflected in the measured branching ratios. Overall, a product channel switching occurs with the CH(2)O-forming channel, (CHO)(2)--> CH(2)O + CO, dominating at low temperatures/densities and the HCO-forming channel dominating at high temperatures/densities. Additionally, the so-called triple-whammy channel, (CHO)(2)--> 2CO + H(2), significantly contributes to the total decomposition rate at intermediate temperatures/densities whereas the HCOH-forming pathway, (CHO)(2)--> HCOH + CO, is predicted to be the least important one. The temperature and pressure dependences of the different decomposition channels are parametrized in terms of two-dimensional Chebyshev polynomials.
18979074	The aim of this study was to clarify whether consumption of cadmium (Cd)-polluted rice or Jinzu River water exerted any influence on the occurrence of renal tubular dysfunction and/or Itai-itai disease. From the participants of health examinations conducted in 1967 and 1968, 3,078 subjects who had resided for >30 years in the present hamlet and were aged >50 years were selected as the target population and were divided according to their residence in 55 hamlets. In a multiple regression analysis, the regression coefficients between rice-Cd concentration and prevalence of abnormal urinary findings (proteinuria, glucosuria, or proteinuria with glucosuria) or patients with Itai-itai disease were statistically significant between both sexes. The correlation between the prevalence of users of Jinzu River water and the occurrence of glucosuria in men as well as abnormal urinary findings in women was not statistically significant. We surmise that eating Cd-polluted rice and drinking and/or cooking with Jinzu River water influenced the occurrence of Itai-itai disease. The occurrence of renal tubular dysfunction is likely to have also been influenced by both factors, with eating Cd-polluted rice having a greater impact on the occurrence of renal tubular dysfunction as compared to drinking and/or cooking with Jinzu River water.
18980645	Ectopic gene expression, or the gain-of-function approach, has the advantage that once the function of a gene is known the gene can be transferred to many different plants by transformation. We previously reported a method, called FOX hunting, that involves ectopic expression of Arabidopsis full-length cDNAs in Arabidopsis to systematically generate gain-of-function mutants. This technology is most beneficial for generating a heterologous gene resource for analysis of useful plant gene functions. As an initial model we generated more than 23,000 independent Arabidopsis transgenic lines that expressed rice fl-cDNAs (Rice FOX Arabidopsis lines). The short generation time and rapid and efficient transformation frequency of Arabidopsis enabled the functions of the rice genes to be analyzed rapidly. We screened rice FOX Arabidopsis lines for alterations in morphology, photosynthesis, element accumulation, pigment accumulation, hormone profiles, secondary metabolites, pathogen resistance, salt tolerance, UV signaling, high light tolerance, and heat stress tolerance. Some of the mutant phenotypes displayed by rice FOX Arabidopsis lines resulted from the expression of rice genes that had no homologs in Arabidopsis. This result demonstrated that rice fl-cDNAs could be used to introduce new gene functions in Arabidopsis. Furthermore, these findings showed that rice gene function could be analyzed by employing Arabidopsis as a heterologous host. This technology provides a framework for the analysis of plant gene function in a heterologous host and of plant improvement by using heterologous gene resources.
18980647	Plant phosphate (Pi) transporters mediate the uptake and translocation of this nutrient within plants. A total of 13 sequences in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome can be identified as belonging to the Pi transporter (Pht1) family. Here, we report on the expression patterns, biological properties and the physiological roles of two members of the family: OsPht1;2 (OsPT2) and OsPht1;6 (OsPT6). Expression of both genes increased significantly under Pi deprivation in roots and shoots. By using transgenic rice plants expressing the GUS reporter gene, driven by their promoters, we detected that OsPT2 was localized exclusively in the stele of primary and lateral roots, whereas OsPT6 was expressed in both epidermal and cortical cells of the younger primary and lateral roots. OsPT6, but not OsPT2, was able to complement a yeast Pi uptake mutant in the high-affinity concentration range. Xenopus oocytes injected with OsPT2 mRNA showed increased Pi accumulation and a Pi-elicited depolarization of the cell membrane electrical potential, when supplied with mM external concentrations. Both results show that OsPT2 mediated the uptake of Pi in oocytes. In transgenic rice, the knock-down of either OsPT2 or OsPT6 expression by RNA interference significantly decreased both the uptake and the long-distance transport of Pi from roots to shoots. Taken together, these data suggest OsPT6 plays a broad role in Pi uptake and translocation throughout the plant, whereas OsPT2 is a low-affinity Pi transporter, and functions in translocation of the stored Pi in the plant.
18980655	Rice dwarf virus (RDV) is a serious viral pest that is transmitted to rice plants (Oryza sativa L.) by leafhoppers and causes a dwarfism in infected plants. To identify host factors involved in the multiplication of RDV, we screened Tos17 insertion mutant lines of rice for mutants with reduced susceptibility to RDV. One mutant, designated rim1-1, did not show typical disease symptoms upon infection with RDV. The accumulation of RDV capsid proteins was also drastically reduced in inoculated rim1-1 mutant plants. Co-segregation and complementation analyses revealed that the rim1-1 mutation had been caused by insertion of Tos17 in an intron of a novel NAC gene. The rim1-1 mutant remained susceptible to the two other viruses tested, one of which is also transmitted by leafhoppers, suggesting that the multiplication rather than transmission of RDV is specifically impaired in this mutant. We propose that RIM1 functions as a host factor that is required for multiplication of RDV in rice.
18980657	Recent studies have shown that molecular control of inner floral organ identity appears to be largely conserved between monocots and dicots, but little is known regarding the molecular mechanism underlying development of the monocot outer floral organ, a unique floral structure in grasses. In this study, we report the cloning of the rice EXTRA GLUME1 (EG1) gene, a putative lipase gene that specifies empty-glume fate and floral meristem determinacy. In addition to affecting the identity and number of empty glumes, mutations in EG1 caused ectopic floral organs to be formed at each organ whorl or in extra ectopic whorls. Iterative glume-like structures or new floral organ primordia were formed in the presumptive region of the carpel, resulting in an indeterminate floral meristem. EG1 is expressed strongly in inflorescence primordia and weakly in developing floral primordia. We also found that the floral meristem and organ identity gene OsLHS1 showed altered expression with respect to both pattern and levels in the eg1 mutant, and is probably responsible for the pleiotropic floral defects in eg1. As a putative class III lipase that functionally differs from any known plant lipase, EG1 reveals a novel pathway that regulates rice empty-glume fate and spikelet development.
18980660	Gibberellins (GAs) and brassinosteroids (BRs), two growth-promoting phytohormones, regulate many common physiological processes. Their interactions at the molecular level remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that OsGSR1, a member of the GAST (GA-stimulated transcript) gene family, is induced by GA and repressed by BR. RNA interference (RNAi) transgenic rice plants with reduced OsGSR1 expression show phenotypes similar to plants deficient in BR, including short primary roots, erect leaves and reduced fertility. The OsGSR1 RNAi transgenic rice shows a reduced level of endogenous BR, and the dwarf phenotype could be rescued by the application of brassinolide. The yeast two-hybrid assay revealed that OsGSR1 interacts with DIM/DWF1, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion from 24-methylenecholesterol to campesterol in BR biosynthesis. These results suggest that OsGSR1 activates BR synthesis by directly regulating a BR biosynthetic enzyme at the post-translational level. Furthermore, OsGSR1 RNAi plants show a reduced sensitivity to GA treatment, an increased expression of the GA biosynthetic gene OsGA20ox2, which is feedback inhibited by GA signaling, and an elevated level of endogenous GA: together, these suggest that OsGSR1 is a positive regulator of GA signaling. These results demonstrate that OsGSR1 plays important roles in both BR and GA pathways, and also mediates an interaction between the two signaling pathways.
18980663	Most plants accumulate silicon in their bodies, and this is thought to be important for resistance against biotic and abiotic stresses; however, the molecular mechanisms for Si uptake and accumulation are poorly understood. Here, we describe an Si influx transporter, HvLsi1, in barley. This protein is homologous to rice influx transporter OsLsi1 with 81% identity, and belongs to a Nod26-like major intrinsic protein sub-family of aquaporins. Heterologous expression in both Xenopus laevis oocytes and a rice mutant defective in Si uptake showed that HvLsi1 has transport activity for silicic acid. Expression of HvLsi1 was detected specifically in the basal root, and the expression level was not affected by Si supply. There was a weak correlation between Si uptake and the expression level of HvLsi1 in eight cultivars tested. In the seminal roots, HvLsi1 is localized on the plasma membrane on the distal side of epidermal and cortical cells. HvLsi1 is also located in lateral roots on the plasma membrane of hypodermal cells. These cell-type specificity of localization and expression patterns of HvLsi1 are different from those of OsLsi1. These observations indicate that HvLsi1 is a silicon influx transporter that is involved in radial transport of Si through the epidermal and cortical layers of the basal roots of barley.
18980953	A new glutelin gene, designated GluD-1, has been discovered by comparing the seed storage proteins from 48 japonica and indica rice cultivars on SDS-PAGE gels. Evidence that GluD-1 is a member of the glutelin family was provided by Western blots using anti-glutelin antiserum and by mapping the gene to the chromosomal glutelin gene cluster. The limited GluD-1 size polymorphism among the rice varieties is due to amino acid substitutions rather than to post-transcriptional modification. GluD-1 is maximally expressed in the starchy endosperm starting at 5 d after flowering (DAF) and increasing through 30 DAF, a major difference from the other glutelins which are primarily expressed in the subaleurone from 10-16 DAF. Only about 0.2 kb of the GluD-1 promoter was sufficient to confer inner starchy endosperm-specific expression. The 0.2 kb truncated GluD-1 promoter contains a bifactorial endosperm box consisting of a truncated GCN4 motif (TGA(G/C)TCA) and AAAG Prolamin box (P box), and ACGT and AACA motifs as cis-regulatory elements. Gel retardation assays and trans-activation experiments indicated that the truncated GCN4 and P box are specifically recognized by RISBZ1 b-ZIP and RPBF Dof activators in vitro, respectively, and are synergistically transactivated, indicating that combinatorial interactions of these motifs are involved in essential endosperm-specific regulation. Furthermore, deviation from the cognate GCN4 motif alters tissue-specific expression in the inner starchy endosperm to include other endosperm tissues.
18981052	Reactome (http://www.reactome.org) is an expert-authored, peer-reviewed knowledgebase of human reactions and pathways that functions as a data mining resource and electronic textbook. Its current release includes 2975 human proteins, 2907 reactions and 4455 literature citations. A new entity-level pathway viewer and improved search and data mining tools facilitate searching and visualizing pathway data and the analysis of user-supplied high-throughput data sets. Reactome has increased its utility to the model organism communities with improved orthology prediction methods allowing pathway inference for 22 species and through collaborations to create manually curated Reactome pathway datasets for species including Arabidopsis, Oryza sativa (rice), Drosophila and Gallus gallus (chicken). Reactome's data content and software can all be freely used and redistributed under open source terms.
18982446	Lessons from organophosphorus pesticides, which could be bioaccumulated in non-target organisms at different trophic levels and caused unexpected negative impacts, necessitate a study of the possibility of biotransfer and bioaccumulation of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) insecticidal toxin(s) expressed in Bt plants. Using ELISA, we evaluated the transfer of Cry1Ab toxin in a food chain of Bt rice (KMD1 and KMD2), the target insect, Cnaphalocrocis medinalis, and its predator, Pirata subpiraticus. Cry1Ab was detected in C. medinalis and P. subpiraticus. However, the concentration of Cry1Ab detected from C. medinalis and P. subpiraticus did not increase as feeding or preying time increased. A binding study of Cry1Ab to the brush border membrane vesicle of C. medinalis and P. subpiraticus indicated that P. subpiraticus does not have binding receptors in its midgut to Cry1Ab, while C. medinalis does. Survivorship and fecundity of P. subpiraticus preying on Bt rice-fed C. medinalis were not significantly different from those preying on non-Bt rice-fed C. medinalis. Developmental time of P. subpiraticus was significantly longer when it preyed on Bt rice-fed C. medinalis than on non-Bt rice-fed prey. However, a 3-year field trial indicated that Bt rice did not significantly affect the density of P. subpiraticus.
18982874	The aim of this review is to objectively access the trial evidence on the role of omega-3, red yeast rice and garlic in preventing clinical cardiovascular events. Given the large number of clinical trials favoring statin use in cardiovascular disease, it is important to see if evidence is available for these supplements and whether they could replace statin therapy. A PubMed search was conducted using the keywords 'trial, omega-3, red yeast rice, xuezhikang, garlic, cholesterol, cardiovascular, outcomes'; the resulting trials were reviewed together with the references quoted in the papers obtained. The studies selected are prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled studies with predefined clinical cardiovascular end-points recruiting at least 2000 patients, with a follow-up over 2 years. Modest dose omega-3 fatty acid has been shown in GISSI-P (11 324 patients, follow-up 3.5 years) to produce a reduction in sudden death of 45%, and in cardiac death of 35%, acting probably via an anti-arrhythmic effect. In JELIS (18 645 patients, follow-up 4.6 years), high dose omega-3 given to Japanese patients on a high fish diet and already on statin treatment produced further benefit with a 19% reduction of nonfatal cardiovascular outcomes; fatal cardiac events are not affected. CCSPS (4870 patients, follow-up 4 years), a secondary prevention trial using xuezhikang, a commercial red yeast rice preparation, produced a 46% reduction in nonfatal myocardial infarction and coronary death. There has been no trial to show that garlic reduces clinical cardiovascular outcomes. A rigorous trial with constant assessment of chemicals in the study material in 192 patients found that over a 6-month follow-up, raw garlic and 2 commercial preparations do not significantly affect lipid levels. Omega-3 in modest doses reduces cardiac deaths, and in high doses reduces nonfatal cardiovascular events. Red yeast rice reduces adverse cardiac events to a similar degree as the statins. It is unlikely that garlic is useful in preventing cardiovascular disease.
18983088	Measurements of metals in soils by diffusive gradients in thin films (DGT) have previously been shown to be linearly related to metals measured in shoots of plants grown in pots. We examine the relationships between metals measured by DGT and other techniques with metals in the roots and unpolished grains of rice cultivated under field conditions at 18 sites in Jiangsu province, China. Rhizosphere soils of rice were collected and the concentrations of Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn were determined on soil solution, acetic acid, and calcium chloride (CaCl2) extractions and by DGT. Simple linear regression analyses between concentrations of metals in plants and those measured using DGT and chemical extractions showed a very good fit for DGT measurements of the concentrations of all four metals in both rice roots and unpolished grains. Good fits were also found using soil solution and acetic acid extractions, but the correlation coefficients were lower than those obtained by DGT. CaCl2 extractions provided the poorest fits for all four metals. Multivariate analyses were used to assess the impact of pH, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), soil organic carbon (SOC), cation exchange capacity (CEC), and texture. Two principal components were extracted. The first was well correlated with SOC, DOC, and clay proportion and is therefore representative of "organic matter". The second primarily correlated positively with pH and negatively with CEC and is representative of "inorganic ions". When these principle components were included in multiple linear regression, correlation coefficients for plots involving metals in soil solution and in extractions using acetic acid and CaCl2 were improved, but there was little change in the correlation coefficients for comparable plots using metals measured by DGT. These results show for the first time that the DGT measurement quantitatively incorporates the main factors affecting bioavailability.
18983157	Chemical composition and in vitro digestion properties of select whole grains, before and after processing, and their components were measured. Substrates included barley, corn, oat, rice, and wheat. In addition to whole grain flours, processed substrates also were tested as were corn bran, oat bran, wheat bran, and wheat germ. Processing of most substrates resulted in higher dry matter and digestible starch and lower resistant starch concentrations. Dietary fiber fractions varied among substrates with processing. Digestion profiles for most substrates correlated well with their chemical composition. Corn bran and rice substrates were the least fermentable. Extrusion rendered barley, corn, and wheat more hydrolytically digestible and barley and oat more fermentatively digestible. Except for corn bran, all components had greater or equal fermentability compared with their native whole grains. Understanding digestion characteristics of whole grains and their components will allow for more accurate utilization of these ingredients in food systems.
18986150	The effects of cooking processes commonly used by the population of Catalonia (Spain) on total arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), mercury (Hg), and lead (Pb) concentrations in various foodstuffs were investigated. All food samples were randomly acquired in local markets, big supermarkets, and grocery stores of Reus (Catalonia). Foods included fish (sardine, hake, and tuna), meat (veal steak, loin of pork, breast and thigh of chicken, and steak and rib of lamb), string bean, potato, rice, and olive oil. For each food item, two composite samples were prepared for metal analyses, whose levels in raw and cooked (fried, grilled, roasted, and boiled) samples were determined by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The highest concentrations of As, Hg, and Pb (raw and cooked samples) were mainly found in fish, with a clear tendency, in general, to increase metal concentrations after cooking. However, in these samples, Cd levels were very close to their detection limit. In turn, the concentrations of metals in raw and cooked meat samples were detected in all samples (As) or only in a very few samples (Cd, Hg, and Pb). A similar finding corresponded to string beans, rice, and olive oil, while in potatoes, Hg could not be detected and Pb only was detected in the raw samples. In summary, the results of the present study show that, in general terms, the cooking process is only of a very limited value as a means of reducing metal concentrations. This hypothetical reduction depends upon cooking conditions (time, temperature, and medium of cooking).
18986194	Secreted proteins control a multitude of biological and physiological processes in multicellular organisms such as plants. Identification of secreted proteins in reference plants like Arabidopsis and rice under normal growth conditions and adverse environmental conditions will help better understand the secretory pathways. Here, we have performed a systematic in planta and in vitro analyses of proteins secreted by rice leaves (in planta) and seed callus suspension-cultured cells (SCCs; in vitro), respectively, using a combination of biochemical and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DGE) coupled with liquid chromatography mass spectrometry analyses. Secreted proteins prepared from either leaves or SCCs medium were essentially free from contamination of intracellular proteins as judged by biochemical and Western blot analyses. 2-DGE analyses of secreted proteins collectively identified 222 protein spots with only 6 protein spots common to both in planta and in vitro derived data sets. Data were used to establish high-resolution and high-density 2-D gel reference maps for both in planta and in vitro secreted proteins. Identified proteins belonged to 11 (in planta) and 6 (in vitro) functional classes. Proteins involved in carbon metabolism (33%) and cell wall metabolism having plant defense mechanism (18%) were highly represented in the in planta secreted proteins accounting for 51% of total identified proteins, whereas proteins of cell wall metabolism having plant defense mechanism (64%) were predominant in the in vitro secreted proteins. Interestingly, secreted proteins possessing signal peptides were significantly lower in an in planta (27%) prepared secreted protein population than in vitro (76%) as predicted by SignalP prediction tool, implying the notion that plant might possess yet unidentified secretory pathway(s) in addition to the classical endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi pathway. Taken together, this systematic study provides evidence for (i) significant difference in protein population secreted in planta and in vitro suggesting both approaches are complementary, (ii) identification of many novel and previously known secreted proteins, and (iii) the presence of large number of functionally diverse proteins secreted in planta and in vitro.
18986259	Plants have sensitive perception systems that recognize various pathogen-derived molecules. We previously reported that rice detects flagellin from a rice-incompatible strain of gram-negative phytopathogenic bacterium, Acidovorax avenae, which induces subsequent immune responses involving cell death. The mechanism of flagellin perception in rice, however, has remained obscure. In this study, we found that flg22, a peptide derived from the flagellin N-terminus, induced weak immune responses without cell death in cultured rice cells. To elucidate the mechanism by which flg22 induced signaling in rice, we characterized OsFLS2, the rice ortholog of AtFLS2, which mediates flg22 perception. Heterologous expression of OsFLS2 functions in Arabidopsis, showing the conservation of the flg22 signaling pathway across divergent plant taxa. OsFLS2-overexpressing rice cultured cells generated stronger immune responses with the induction of cell death following stimulation with flg22 and flagellin. However, examination of the growth rate of the compatible strain in inoculated OsFLS2-overexpressing rice could not confirm bacterial growth suppression compared with wild-type rice. These results suggest that rice possesses a conserved flagellin perception system utilizing the FLS2 receptor which, when upregulated, hardly affects resistance against compatible A. avenae.
18986826	The plant-specific B3 superfamily encompasses well-characterized families, such as the auxin response factor (ARF) family and the LAV family, as well as less well understood families, such as RAV and REM. In Arabidopsis, there are 118 B3 genes, and in rice there are 91 B3 genes. The B3 domain is present in genes from gymnosperms, mosses and green algae, indicating that the B3 domain evolved on the plant lineage before multicellularity. The aim of this review is to phylogenetically characterize the members of the B3 family in Arabidopsis and rice and to review the function of the B3 genes that have been studied to date.
18986827	Grass inflorescences produce the grain that feeds the world. Compared to eudicots such as Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), grasses have a complex inflorescence morphology that can be explained by differences in the activity of axillary meristems. Advances in genomics, such as the completion of the rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genomes and the recent release of a draft sequence of the maize (Zea mays) genome, have greatly facilitated research in grasses. Here, we review recent progress in the understanding of the genetic regulation of grass inflorescence development, with a focus on maize and rice. An exciting theme is the key role of plant growth hormones in inflorescence development.
18987215	Magnaporthe oryzae is a hemibiotrophic fungal pathogen that causes rice (Oryza sativa) blast. Although M. oryzae as a whole infects a wide variety of monocotyledonous hosts, no dicotyledonous plant has been reported as a host. We found that two rice pathogenic strains of M. oryzae, KJ201 and 70-15, interacted differentially with 16 ecotypes of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Strain KJ201 infected all ecotypes with varying degrees of virulence, whereas strain 70-15 caused no symptoms in certain ecotypes. In highly susceptible ecotypes, small chlorotic lesions appeared on infected leaves within 3 d after inoculation and subsequently expanded across the affected leaves. The fungus produced spores in susceptible ecotypes but not in resistant ecotypes. Fungal cultures recovered from necrotic lesions caused the same symptoms in healthy plants, satisfying Koch's postulates. Histochemical analyses showed that infection by the fungus caused an accumulation of reactive oxygen species and eventual cell death. Similar to the infection process in rice, the fungus differentiated to form appressorium and directly penetrated the leaf surface in Arabidopsis. However, the pathogenic mechanism in Arabidopsis appears distinct from that in rice; three fungal genes essential for pathogenicity in rice played only limited roles in causing disease symptoms in Arabidopsis, and the fungus seems to colonize Arabidopsis as a necrotroph through the secretion of phytotoxic compounds, including 9,12-octadecadienoic acid. Expression of PR-1 and PDF1.2 was induced in response to infection by the fungus, suggesting the activation of salicylic acid- and jasmonic acid/ethylene-dependent signaling pathways. However, the roles of these signaling pathways in defense against M. oryzae remain unclear. In combination with the wealth of genetic and genomic resources available for M. oryzae, this newly established pathosystem allows comparison of the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying pathogenesis and host defense in two well-studied model plants.
18987217	Transcription factors (TFs) are major players in gene regulatory networks and interactions between TFs and their target genes furnish spatiotemporal patterns of gene expression. Establishing the architecture of regulatory networks requires gathering information on TFs, their targets in the genome, and the corresponding binding sites. We have developed GRASSIUS (Grass Regulatory Information Services) as a knowledge-based Web resource that integrates information on TFs and gene promoters across the grasses. In its initial implementation, GRASSIUS consists of two separate, yet linked, databases. GrassTFDB holds information on TFs from maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), sugarcane (Saccharum spp.), and rice (Oryza sativa). TFs are classified into families and phylogenetic relationships begin to uncover orthologous relationships among the participating species. This database also provides a centralized clearinghouse for TF synonyms in the grasses. GrassTFDB is linked to the grass TFome collection, which provides clones in recombination-based vectors corresponding to full-length open reading frames for a growing number of grass TFs. GrassPROMDB contains promoter and cis-regulatory element information for those grass species and genes for which enough data are available. The integration of GrassTFDB and GrassPROMDB will be accomplished through GrassRegNet as a first step in representing the architecture of grass regulatory networks. GRASSIUS can be accessed from www.grassius.org.
18988636	Aquaporins are water channel proteins that facilitate passage of water and other small neutral molecules across biological membranes. There are usually a large number of members of this family in higher plants, which exhibit various physiological functions and are regulated in a time-specific and particular mode. We have previously shown that a rice gene, OsPIP2;7, was generally up-regulated in roots but down-regulated in shoots at the early stage of chilling stress. Here, OsPIP2;7 was cloned and proved to be an aquaporin with high activity in Xenopus oocytes. OsPIP2;7 was localized mainly in mesophyll cells of leaves. In roots it was detected in the vascular tissues, epidermis cells and exodermis cells at the elongation zone, as well as in the epidermis cells, exodermis cells and root hair at the maturation zone. Yeast cells overexpressing OsPIP2;7 showed a higher survival rate after freeze-thaw stress. Furthermore, OsPIP2;7 enhanced the transpiration rate and tolerance to low temperature when overexpressed in rice. These results indicated that OsPIP2;7 was involved in rapid water transport and maintenance of the water balance in cells, and ultimately improves the tolerance of yeast and rice to low temperature stress.
18988851	A record from Wanxiang Cave, China, characterizes Asian Monsoon (AM) history over the past 1810 years. The summer monsoon correlates with solar variability, Northern Hemisphere and Chinese temperature, Alpine glacial retreat, and Chinese cultural changes. It was generally strong during Europe's Medieval Warm Period and weak during Europe's Little Ice Age, as well as during the final decades of the Tang, Yuan, and Ming Dynasties, all times that were characterized by popular unrest. It was strong during the first several decades of the Northern Song Dynasty, a period of increased rice cultivation and dramatic population increase. The sign of the correlation between the AM and temperature switches around 1960, suggesting that anthropogenic forcing superseded natural forcing as the major driver of AM changes in the late 20th century.
18990329
18990427	This study aims to verify the effects of the clomazone concentration used in rice fields on acetylcholinesterase (AChE), thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), protein carbonyl and catalase activity in tissues of piava (Leporinus obtusidens). LC(50)-96h was 5.0 mg L(-1) and the fish were exposed to 1/10 of LC(50)-96 h: 0.5 mg L(-1) of clomazone for 96 and 192h. The same parameters were also assayed after a recovery period of 192 h in clean water. AChE activity was reduced only in the brain and heart of fish exposed for 96 h. AChE activity was decreased in the brain, muscle and heart tissues after 192 h of exposure. After 192 h of recovery period, AChE activity remained diminished in brain and muscle and showed a decrease in eye. However, after 192 h of recovery, AChE activity in heart was recovered. Fish showed increased TBARS levels in brain at all experimental periods. TBARS levels decreased in liver and muscle tissues after 192 h of exposure. The increase in muscle TBARS persisted in fish transferred to clean water. Protein carbonyl in the liver was increased in all periods studied including the recovery period. Catalase activity was reduced during all periods. The present study demonstrates the occurrence of disorders in AChE, TBARS, protein carbonyl and catalase activity in piava. The results also show changes in fish after exposure to an environmentally relevant concentration of clomazone. Most effects observed persisted after the recovery period. Thus, these parameters may be used to monitor clomazone toxicity in fish.
18991448	Ergosterol is a measure for fungal biomass. The recovery rates using a previously described microwave-assisted-extraction (MAE) method for ergosterol analysis tended to be low for grain cultures (pure culture in sterilized 40% moisture content grain) inoculated with Fusarium graminearum . An improved MAE method for measuring ergosterol in grain cultures was developed and compared. Modification to the original MAE included alterations in duration of microwave exposure and extraction solvents. Four autoclaved grains (wheat, rice, barley, and corn) were inoculated with F. graminearum or spiked with ergosterol at concentrations from 0.88 to 100 microg/g and extracted with both methods. The ergosterol recovery rates were significantly different (p < 0.05) for the two methods in assaying both the spiked and grain culture samples. The modified method provided greater recovery rates than the previously reported MAE method for the spiked samples and F. graminearum grain cultures.
18991455	A novel trypsin inhibitor (PFTI) was isolated from Plathymenia foliolosa (Benth.) seeds by gel filtration chromatography on a Sephadex G-100, DEAE-Sepharose, and trypsin-Sepharose columns. By SDSPAGE, PFTI yielded a single band with a M(r) of 19 kDa. PFTI inhibited bovine trypsin and bovine chymotrypsin with equilibrium dissociation constants (K(i)) of 4 x 10(-8) and 1.4 x 10(-6) M, respectively. PFTI retained more than 50% of activity at up to 50 degrees C for 30 min, but there were 80 and 100% losses of activity at 60 and 70 degrees C, respectively. DTT affected the activity or stability of PFTI. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of PFTI showed a high degree of homology with various members of the Kunitz family of inhibitors. Anagasta kuehniella is found worldwide; this insect attacks stored grains and products of rice, oat, rye, corn, and wheat. The velvet bean caterpillar (Anticarsia gemmatalis) is considered the main defoliator pest of soybean in Brazil. Diatraea saccharalis, the sugar cane borer, is the major pest of sugar cane crops, and its caterpillar-feeding behavior, inside the stems, hampers control. PFTI showed significant inhibitory activity against trypsin-like proteases present in the larval midguts on A. kuehniella and D. saccharalis and could suppress the growth of larvae.
18992724	Environmental enrichment recovers memory deficits without affecting atrophy of the hippocampus adult rats submitted to neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI). The present study was designed to investigate whether the modulation of brain oxidative status and/or BDNF content, as assessed in adulthood, are involved with the functional neuroprotection caused by environmental enrichment in animals receiving neonatal HI. Male Wistar rats, in the 7th postnatal day, were submitted to the Levine-Rice model of neonatal hypoxia-ischemia, comprising permanent occlusion of the right common carotid artery and a 90 min period of hypoxia (8% O(2)-92% N(2)). Starting 2 weeks after the HI event, animals were stimulated by the enriched environment (1 h/day for 9 weeks). Rats were sacrificed approximately 24 h after the end of enrichment period and some oxidative stress parameters, specifically the free radical levels, macromolecules damage and superoxide dismutase activity, in hippocampus and frontal cortex samples were determined. BDNF levels were also measured in the same encephalic structures. Indexes of macromolecules damage, TBARS levels and total cellular thiols, as well as free radical levels were unchanged in both studied structures. An increased SOD activity in the right hippocampus of HI group maintained in standard environment was found, this effect was reversed in HI enriched group. Moreover, BDNF levels were increased only in the hippocampus of non-stimulated HI group. These results suggest that the environmental enrichment protocol bearing cognitive protection is not associated to increases in BDNF expression nor SOD activity in hippocampus of the rats, as assessed in adulthood, submitted to neonatal hypoxia-ischemia.
18993005	The bacterium Acidovorax avenae causes disease in a wide range of economically important monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants, including corn, rice, watermelon, anthurium, and orchids. Genotypic and phenotypic relatedness among strains of phytopathogenic A. avenae subsp. avenae, A. avenae subsp. citrulli, A. avenae subsp. cattleyae and A. konjaci, as well as all other Acidovorax species, including A. facilis, the type strain of Acidovorax, was determined. The 16s rDNA sequencing confirmed previous studies showing the environmental species to be very distant from the phytopathogenic species. DNA/DNA reassociation assays on the different strains of A. avenae revealed four (A, B, C, and D) distinct genotypes. Taxon A included six A. avenae subsp. avenae strains from corn that had a mean reciprocal similarity of 81%; taxon B included six A. avenae subsp. avenae strains from rice that had a mean reciprocal similarity of 97%; taxon C contained 11 A. avenae subsp. citrulli strains from cucurbits (cantaloupe, watermelon, and pumpkin) that had a mean reciprocal similarity of 88%, and taxon D contained four A. avenae subsp. cattleyae strains from orchids that had a mean similarity of 98%. The mean reciprocal relatedness between taxa A, B, C, and D was less than 70%. Sequence analysis of 16S rDNA and the 16S-23S rDNA internally transcribed spacer region, as well as AFLP analysis, revealed the same four taxa. All four were easily differentiated phenotypically from each other and from all other recognized Acidovorax species. Strains of A. avenae did not contain 3-hydroxyoctanoic acid, which was found in all other species. On the basis of these and previous genetic and phenotypic results, we propose an emendation of the species A. avenae. A. avenae subsp. citrulli (C strains) and A. avenae subsp. cattleyae (D strains) should be elevated to species rank as A. citrulli and A. cattleyae, respectively. We further propose a new taxon for the B strains, A. oryzae sp. nov. with FC-143T = ICPB 30003T = ICMP 3960T = ATCC 19882T as the type strain.
18995940	Dose-response functions from China were employed to assess ozone (O3)-induced relative yield loss (RYL) for rice and winter wheat in Chongqing and the Yangtze River Delta (YRD) in 1990-2020, based on monitored and simulated O3 exposures. It shows that RYL for rice in Chongqing from 1990 to 1995 was 1.1-5.8% and would reach 10.8% in 2020, while for winter wheat it was estimated to be 0.2-9.8% in 1990 and would reach around 12.0% in 2020. In the YRD, RYL for rice was 2.5-6.6% from 1990 to 1999 and would reach 9.2% in 2020, while for winter wheat, RYL was estimated to be 7.1-8.4% based on simulated O3 dosages, while based on monitored O3 dosages, it had surpassed 8.4% and reached about 12.0% in 1999.
18995960	Agricultural waste burning is performed after harvest periods in June and November in Taiwan. Typically, farmers use open burning to dispose of excess rice straw. PM(2.5) and PM(2.5-10) measurements were conducted at National Chung Hsing University in Taichung City using a dichotomous sampler. The sampling times were during straw burning periods after rice harvest during 2002-2005. Ionic species including SO(4)(2-), NO(3)(-), NH(4)(+), K(+), Ca(2+), Cl(-) and Na(+) and carbonaceous species (EC and OC) in PM(2.5) and PM(2.5-10) were analyzed. The results showed that the average PM(2.5) and PM(2.5-10) concentrations were 123.6 and 31.5 microg m(-3) during agricultural waste burning periods and 32.6 and 21.4 microg m(-3) during non-waste burning periods, respectively. The fine aerosol ionic species including Cl(-), K(+) and NO(3)(-) increased 11.0, 6.7 and 5.5 times during agricultural burning periods compared with periods when agricultural waste burning is not performed. K(+) was found mainly in the fine mode during agricultural burning. High nitrogen oxidation ratio was found during agricultural waste burning periods which might be caused by the conversion of Nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)) to NO(3)(-). It is concluded that agricultural waste burning with low dispersion often causes high PM(2.5) and gases pollutant events.
18996467	To study how changes in gene regulation shape phenotypic variations in rice, we performed a comparative analysis of genome expression in the heading-stage panicle from six lineages of cultivated and wild rice, including Oryza sativa subsp. indica, japonica and javanica, O. nivara , O. rufipogon and O. glaberrima. While nearly three-quarters of the genes are expressed at a constant level in all six lineages, a large portion of the genome, ranging from 1767 to 4489 genes, exhibited differential expression between Asian domesticated and wild rice with repression or down-regulation of genome expression in Asian cultivated rice as the dominant trend. Importantly, we found this repression was achieved to a large extent by the differential expression of a single member of paralogous gene families. Functional analysis of the differentially expressed genes revealed that genes related to catabolism are repressed while genes related to anabolism up-regulated. Finally, we observed that distinct evolutionary forces may have acted on gene expression and the coding sequences in the examined rice lineages.
18996570	The effect of arsenic (As) exposure on genome-wide expression was examined in rice (Oryza sativa L., ssp. Indica). A group of defense and stress-responsive genes, transporters, heat-shock proteins, metallothioneins, sulfate-metabolizing proteins, and regulatory genes showed differential expression in rice seedlings challenged with arsenate (AsV) and arsenite (AsIII). AsV stress led to upregulation or downregulation of an additional set of genes in comparison to AsIII. Differential expression of several genes that showed the highest contrast in a microarray analysis was validated by following the quantitative changes in the levels of individual transcripts following challenge with AsV, AsIII, Cd, Cr, and Pb. Most of the selected genes responded to challenge by heavy metals such as arsenic. However, expression of one of the cytochrome P450 genes (Os01g43740) in rice root was induced by AsV but not by other heavy metals. Similarly, one glutaredoxin (Os01g26912) is expressed specifically in the AsIII-treated shoot.
18997330	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial blight, which is one of the most devastating diseases of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in many rice-growing countries. The coding sequence of Xoo2316 (a predicted 6-phosphogluconolactonase; 6PGL) from Xoo was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. 6PGL is an enzyme that is involved in the second step of the pentose phosphate pathway, which is essential for the synthesis of nucleotide sugars and NADPH, the main source of reducing power. The protein was purified and crystallized in order to elucidate the molecular basis for its enzymatic reaction. Native crystals diffracted to 2.4 A resolution and belonged to the orthorhombic space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 40.0, b = 65.1, c = 78.8 A. A monomer exists in the asymmetric unit with a corresponding V(M) of 1.93 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent content of 36.5%.
18997409	Starch branching enzyme (SBE) catalyzes the cleavage of alpha-1.4-linkages and the subsequent transfer of alpha-1.4 glucan to form an alpha-1.6 branch point in amylopectin. We overproduced rice branching enzyme I (BEI) in Escherichia coli cells, and the resulting enzyme (rBEI) was characterized with respect to biochemical and crystallographic properties. Specific activities were calculated to be 20.8 units/mg and 2.5 units/mg respectively when amylose and amylopectin were used as substrates. Site-directed mutations of Tyr235, Asp270, His275, Arg342, Asp344, Glu399, and His467 conserved in the alpha-amylase family enzymes drastically reduced catalytic activity of rBEI. This result suggests that the structures of BEI and the other alpha-amylase family enzymes are similar and that they share common catalytic mechanisms. Crystals of rBEI were grown under appropriate conditions and the crystals diffracted to a resolution of 3.0 A on a synchrotron X-ray source.
18997413	Tocotrienol (T3) is an unsaturated vitamin E having health benefits (e.g., anti-angiogenesis). We measured T3 in commercial eggs, and developed T3-fortified eggs by adding rice bran scum oil (RBO, containing 1.3% T3) to the feed. Commercial eggs contained about 0.11 mg of T3/egg, while the T3 content was improved to 0.62 mg/egg after RBO supplementation to the feed of hens for 7 d.
18997574	To understand the feeding practices, knowledge, and nutritional beliefs of Vietnamese mothers with young children who are recent immigrants to the United States. Exploratory, descriptive study using a focus group design to provide qualitative data. Twelve Vietnamese mothers of children under the age of 5 years participated in a 1-hour focus group discussion (in Vietnamese) facilitated by a Vietnamese nutritionist and the principal investigator. The study participants identified that breastfeeding is healthier for babies than formula but reported the difficulty in maintaining breastfeeding due to work and family constraints. A traditional Vietnamese diet of meat or fish with soup broth, vegetables, and rice was the preferred and healthiest diet for children under the age of 6 years. There was consensus in the group that "junk food" and inactivity were unhealthy for children and led to overweight and obesity. Several of the group participants verbalized difficulty in maintaining a healthy diet for their children because the children demanded unhealthy food choices, and their work schedules made it difficult to make sure their children were getting adequate exercise. This knowledge can be used by nurses to develop culturally appropriate interventions for immigrants from Vietnam aimed at preventing childhood obesity. Interventions that consider the effects of acculturation could be more effective when targeted to parents of young children than interventions focused on treatment of obesity in later years.
18998058	Abscisic acid (ABA), the popular plant stress hormone, plays a key role in regulation of sub-set of stress responsive genes. These genes respond to ABA through specific transcription factors which bind to cis-regulatory elements present in their promoters. We discovered the ABA Responsive Element (ABRE) core (ACGT) containing CGMCACGTGB motif as over-represented motif among the promoters of ABA responsive co-expressed genes in rice. Targeted gene prediction strategy using this motif led to the identification of 402 protein coding genes potentially regulated by ABA-dependent molecular genetic network. RT-PCR analysis of arbitrarily chosen 45 genes from the predicted 402 genes confirmed 80% accuracy of our prediction. Plant Gene Ontology (GO) analysis of ABA responsive genes showed enrichment of signal transduction and stress related genes among diverse functional categories.
18998110	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial leaf blight, one of the most widespread and destructive bacterial diseases in rice. This study identified and characterized the contribution of the twin-arginine translocation (Tat) pathway to motility, chemotaxis, extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) production and virulence in X. oryzae pv. oryzae strain PXO99. The tatC disruption mutant (strain TCM) of strain PXO99 were generated, and confirmed both by PCR and Southern blotting. Strain PXO99 cells were highly motile in NYGB 0.3% soft agar plate. In contrast, the tatC mutation impaired motility. Furthermore, strain TCM cells lacked detectable flagella and exhibited almost no chemotaxis toward glucose under aerobic conditions, indicating that the Tat secretion pathway contributed to flagellar biogenesis and chemotactic responses. It was also observed that strain TCM exhibited a reductive production of extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) and a significant reduction of virulence on rice plants when compared with the wild type PXO99. However, the tatC mutation in strain PXO99 did not affect growth rate and the ability to induce hypersensitive response (HR) in nonhost tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Samsun). Our findings indicated that the Tat system of X. oryzae pv. oryzae played an important role in the pathogen's virulence.
19000008	Rhizoctonia solani anastomosis group (AG)-1 IA causes soybean foliar blighting (aerial blight) and rice sheath blight diseases. Although taxonomically related within the AG-1 complex, sister populations of R. solani AG-1 IA infecting Poaceae (rice) and Fabaceae (soybean) are genetically distinct based on internal transcribed spacer rDNA. However, there is currently no information available regarding the extent of genetic differentiation and host specialization between rice- and soybean-infecting populations of R. solani AG-1 IA. We used 10 microsatellite loci to compare sympatric R. solani AG-1 IA populations infecting rice and soybeans in Louisiana and one allopatric rice-infecting population from Texas. None of the 154 multilocus genotypes found among the 223 isolates were shared among the three populations. Partitioning of genetic diversity showed significant differentiation among sympatric populations from different host species (Phi(ST) = 0.39 to 0.41). Historical migration patterns between sympatric rice- and soybean-infecting populations from Louisiana were asymmetrical. Rice- and soybean-derived isolates of R. solani AG-1 IA were able to infect both rice and soybean, but were significantly more aggressive on their host of origin, consistent with host specialization. The soybean-infecting population from Louisiana was more clonal than the sympatric rice-infecting population. Most of the loci in the soybean-infecting populations were out of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE), but the sympatric rice-infecting population from Louisiana was mainly in HWE. All populations presented evidence for a mixed reproductive system.
19000161	Arabidopsis thaliana SPX (SYG/PHO81/XPR1) domain genes have recently been shown to be involved in the phosphate (Pi) signaling pathway. We show here that a rice (Oryza sativa) SPX gene, OsSPX1, is specifically induced by Pi starvation in roots. Suppression of OsSPX1 by RNA interference resulted in severe signs of toxicity caused by the over-accumulation of Pi, similar to that found in OsPHR2 (phosphate starvation response transcription factor 2) overexpressors and pho2 (phosphate-responsive mutant 2). Quantitative RT-PCR showed that expression of OsSPX1 was strongly induced in OsPHR2 overexpression and pho2 mutant plants, indicating that OsSPX1 occurs downstream of OsPHR2 and PHO2. The expression of 10 genes associated with the phosphate-starvation signal pathways was analyzed. Expression of OsPT2 (phosphate transporter 2) and OsPT8 was significantly induced in OsSPX1-RNAi (OsSPX1-Ri) plants, suggesting that over-accumulation of Pi in OsSPX1-Ri plants results from an increase in Pi transport. In contrast, overexpression of OsSPX1 suppressed the induction of expression by Pi starvation of all 10 phosphate starvation-induced genes tested: IPS1 (induced by phosphate starvation 1), IPS2, OsPAP10 (purple acid phosphatase 10), OsSQD2 (sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol 2), miR399d and miR399j (microRNA 399), OsPT2, OsPT3, OsPT6 and OsPT8. This suggests that OsSPX1 acts via a negative feedback loop to optimize growth under phosphate-limited conditions.
19000321	The mature embryo of rice (Oryza sativa, L.) is a synchronized and integrated tissue mass laying the foundation at molecular level for its growth, development, and differentiation toward a developing and ultimately a mature plant. We carried out an EST (expressed-sequence-tags)-based transcriptomic study, aiming at gaining molecular insights into embryonic development of a rice hybrid triad-an elite hybrid rice LYP9 and its parental lines (93-11 and PA64s)-and possible relatedness to heterosis. We generated 27,566 high-quality ESTs from cDNA libraries made from mature rice embryos. We classified these ESTs into 7,557 unigenes (2,511 contigs and 5,046 singletons) and 7,250 (95.9%) of them were annotated. We noticed that the high-abundance genes in mature rice embryos belong to two major functional categories, stress-tolerance and preparation-for-development, and we also identified 191 differentially-expressed genes (General Chi-squared test, P-value <= 0.05) between LYP9 and its parental lines, representing typical expression patterns including over-dominance, high- and low-parent dominance, additivity, and under-dominance. In LYP9, the majority of embryo-associated genes were found not only abundantly and specifically enriched but also significantly up-regulated. Our results suggested that massively strengthening tissue-(or stage-) characteristic functions may contribute to heterosis rather than a few simple mechanistic explanations at the individual gene level. In addition, the large collection of rice embryonic ESTs provides significant amount of data for future comparative analyses on plant development, especially for the important crops of the grass family.
19000632	This study investigated the interaction of three polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), i.e., naphthalene (NAP), phenanthrene (PHN), and pyrene (PYR), with the microbial community in the rhizosphere of a paddy soil and the influence of the rice (Oryza sativa) rhizosphere on the microbial community structure. A range of initial NAP, PHN and PYR levels in soil (50-200, 18-72, and 6.6-26.6 mg kg(-1), respectively) were prepared and the soil samples were then aged for 4 months (to yield PAH concentrations at 1.02-1.42, 1.32-4.77, and 2.98-18.5 mg kg(-)(1), respectively) before the soil samples were planted with rice seedlings. The microbial phospholipid-fatty-acid (PLFA) patterns in PAH-contaminated soils were analyzed to elucidate the changes of the microbial biomass and community composition. Results indicated that at the applied concentrations the PAHs were not toxic to rice seedlings, as evidenced by no growth inhibition during the 8-week planting period. However, the microbial biomass, as revealed by PLFAs, decreased significantly with increasing PAH concentration in both rhizospheric and non-rhizospheric soils. The PAHs in soils were obviously toxic to microorganisms, and the toxicity of PHN was greater than PYR due likely to the higher PHN bioavailability. Total PLFAs in rhizospheric soils were profoundly higher than those in non-rhizospheric soils, suggesting that the inhibitive effect of PAHs on microbial activities was alleviated by the rice roots. The principal component analysis (PCA) of the PLFA signatures revealed pronounced changes in PLFA pattern in rhizospheric and non-rhizospheric soils with or without spiked PAHs. Using the PLFA patterns as a biomarker, it was found that Gram-positive bacteria were more sensitive to PAHs than Gram-negative bacteria, and the rhizosphere of rice roots stimulated the growth of aerobic bacteria.
19001425	Flooding slows seed germination, imposes fatalities and delays seedling establishment in direct-seeded rice. This study describes responses of contrasting rice genotypes subjected to flooding or low oxygen stress during germination and discusses the basis of tolerance shown by certain cultivars. In one set of experiments, dry seeds were sown in soil and either watered normally or flooded with 10 cm of water. Seedling survival and shoot and root growth were assessed and seed portions of germinating seedlings were assayed for soluble sugars and starch concentrations. The whole germinating seedlings were assayed for amylase and peroxidase activities and for ethylene production. Activities of enzymes associated with anaerobic respiration were examined and gene expression was analysed separately with seeds germinating under different amounts of dissolved oxygen in dilute agar. Flooding during germination reduced survival but to a lesser extent in tolerant genotypes. Starch concentration in germinating seeds decreased while sugar concentration increased under flooding, but more so in tolerant genotypes. Amylase activity correlated positively with elongation (r = 0.85 for shoot and 0.83 for root length) and with plant survival (r = 0.92). Tolerant genotypes had higher amylase activity and higher RAmy3D gene expression. Ethylene was not detected in seeds within 2 d after sowing, but increased thereafter, with a greater increase in tolerant genotypes starting 3 d after sowing. Peroxidase activity was higher in germinating seeds of sensitive genotypes and correlated negatively with survival. Under low oxygen stress, tolerant genotypes germinate, grow faster and more seedlings survive. They maintain their ability to use stored starch reserves through higher amylase activity and anaerobic respiration, have higher rates of ethylene production and lower peroxidase activity as germinating seeds and as seedlings. Relevance of these traits to tolerance of flooding during germination and early growth is discussed.
19001770	To investigate dietary quality among Japanese adults with a high vegetable diet, to consider dietary recommendation for vegetable intake. In the cross-sectional study of the National Health and Nutrition Survey 2003, we conducted the secondary analyses. The food-weighing method in one-day assessed the dietary intake. From 11,630 subjects, 2,305 men and 2,312 non-pregnant/lactating women, aged 20-69 y, and with an energy intake between 1,500 and 3,712 kcal were selected. Associations between vegetable, nutrient-density, and food intake were analyzed according to tertile cutoff: low vegetable diet (LVD), medium vegetable diet (MVD), or high vegetable diet (HVD). Differences across subgroups were tested after age adjustment. Mean vegetable intakes were 309 g for men and 318 g for women. Only 35% of Japanese met the vegetable intake (VI) recommendation of > or =350 g/d. VI had a positive association with age. Men 20-29 y-old and women 30-39 y-old were the subjects with the lowest VI. HVD subjects had higher intake for most food groups, whereas wheat in men; and wheat, sweets, and alcohol in women were negatively associated with VI. Main sources of energy for men and women with HVD were rice, wheat, and meat. HVD also had higher micronutrient-density. These analyses demonstrated the beneficial effects of HVD on dietary quality in the population studied. We concluded recommendations for adequate vegetable intake are expected to improve diet quality among Japanese adults, especially for the group aged 20-39.
19002204	What is the fate of organ-specific genes after the organ is lost? For Sorghum propinquum and Sorghum halepense genes that were previously shown to have rhizome-enriched expression, we have conducted comparative analysis of both coding regions and regulatory sequences in Sorghum bicolor (non-rhizomatousness) and S. propinquum (rhizomatousness). Most genes with rhizome-enriched expression appear to have similar numbers of paralogous copies in both genotypes, with only three of 24 genes studied showing significant differences in copy numbers. We detected no greater propensity for mutation in S. bicolor than in S. propinquum of genes with rhizome-enriched expression in the latter. Several cis-acting regulatory elements, particularly an Myb-binding core (AACGG) that is involved in the regulation of the mitotic cyclin, were more abundant in promoters of S. propinquum than in non-rhizomatous S. bicolor or Oryza sativa (rice). We suggest that many genes with rhizome-enriched expression in S. propinquum may serve multiple functions, with partial loss of some of these functions in S. bicolor but ongoing purifying selection acting to preserve the remaining functions. Expressed genes in polyploid S. halepense rhizomes appeared to be more frequently derived from the S. propinquum than the S. bicolor progenitor, but there was some evidence of formation of novel alleles and 'recruitment' of S. bicolor genes to rhizome-enriched expression in S. halepense, suggesting that polyploidy may have offered new evolutionary potential to S. halepense.
19002362	Molinate, a thiocarbamate chemical is a slightly to moderately toxic herbicide in EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) toxicity class III, and is a registered as a General Use Pesticide (GUP). Bombina orientalis is one of the most common amphibians in the world and comprise a large proportion of their total number in Korea. B. orientalis spawns in the rice fields at spring when the massive application of agricultural chemicals occurs. In the present study, we examined the effects of molinate on embryonic survival and developmental abnormality in B. orientalis embryos. The difference in survival rate between vehicle control and molinate treated embryos was not observed until the blastula stage. The first statistically significant decrease in embryonic survival was observed at mouth open stage following exposure to 100 microM molinate (46.8% vs. 81.1% in control). When the embryos develop to tadpole stage survival was significantly decreased at 50 microM molinate (35.9% vs. 68.9% in control), suggesting that the lowest observed effective dose (LOED) for systemic toxicity in B. orientalis embryos is 50 microM. In survived embryos molinate exposure produced several types of severe developmental abnormalities in order of frequency with bent trunk, neurula with yolk plug, bent tail, tail dysplasia, ventral blister, eye dysplasia, thick-set body and cephalic dysplasia. This suggests that molinate targets multiple events in embryonic and larval development in this frog species. Together this suggested that molinate was detrimental for survival and development following zygotic transcription after midblastula transition in B. orientalis embryos.
19002881	We previously developed an in vitro immunization (IVI) protocol of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) for generating antigen-specific human antibodies. In order to clarify whether IVI protocolinduces antigen-specific B cell responses in PBMC, we analyzed family gene usage and sequence of the variable region gene of immunoglobulin heavy chain (VH gene) of the antibody produced from the in vitro immunized PBMC. Sequence homology analyses of VH gene demonstrated that a larger repertoire of B cells can be sensitized with mite-extract than with cholera toxin B subunit and rice allergen. Further, antigen-specific B cells were efficiently expanded by using CpG oligodeoxynucleotide as adjuvant. These results suggest that appropriate combination of sensitizing antigen and adjuvant is primarily important for expansion of antigen-specific B cells in IVI protocol.
19002977	Protein hydrolysates as substitutes for serum havebeen employed by many in cell culture mediumformulation, especially with the shift to low proteinor protein-free media. More recently, vegetablehydrolysates have also been added as nutritionalsupplements to fortify the amino acid content in smallpeptide form for batch and fed-batch fermentations. Several of these new hydrolysates (peptones of soy,rice, wheat gluten etc.) were tested as protein-freemedium supplements for the production of a recombinanttherapeutic protein. Multiple peptone-supplemented,continuous perfusion bioreactor experiments wereconducted, varying dilution rates and basal mediumcomposition over the various runs. Cell specificrates and product quality studies were obtained forthe various peptones and compared with peptone-freemedium. The potential for peptones to decreaseintrinsic and proteolytic degradation of the productwas also investigated.It was found that peptones confer a nutritionalbenefit, especially at low dilution rates, for therecombinant BHK cell line used in this investigation.The specific productivity increased 20-30% comparedto the peptone-free controls. However, this benefitwas also fully delivered by using fortified medium inplace of the peptone-enriched media. Therefore, whilepeptones may be considered as useful medium additiveswhen development time is limited, their addition maybe avoided by systematic medium development ifpermitted by the time line of the project.
19003233	We have recently developed a protein-free medium (PFS) able to support the growth of Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells in suspension. Upon further supplementation with some plant protein hydrolysates, medium performances reached what could be observed in serum-containing media [Burteau et al. In Vitro Cell. Dev. Biol.-Anim. 39 (2003) 291]. Now, we describe the use of rice and wheat protein hydrolysates, as non-nutritional additives to the culture medium to support productivity and cell growth in suspension or in microcarriers. When CHO-320 cells secreting recombinant interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) were cultivated in suspension in a bioreactor with our PFS supplemented with wheat hydrolysates, the maximum cell density increased by 25% and the IFN-gamma secretion by 60% compared to the control PFS. A small-scale perfusion system consisting of CHO-320 cells growing on and inside fibrous microcarriers under discontinuous operation was first developed. Under these conditions, rice protein hydrolysates stimulated recombinant IFN-gamma secretion by 30% compared to the control PFS. At the bioreactorscale, similar results were obtained but when compared to shake-flasks studies, nutrients, oxygen or toxic by-products gradients inside the microcarriers seemed to be the main limitation of the system. An increase of the perfusion rate to maintain glucose concentration over 5.5 mM and dissolved oxygen (DO) at 60% was able to stimulate the production of IFN-gamma to a level of 6.6 mug h(-1) g(-1) of microcarriers after 160 h when a cellular density of about 4 x 10(8) cell g(-1) of carriers was reached.
19003321	We previously established an in vitro immunization protocol for generating antigen specific human monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). In vitro immunization was performed against the soluble protein of rice allergenic protein (RA), resulting in the generation of three B cell clones, AC7-1/F9, CB7-1/E2 and CB7-8/F5, all of which produce a RA-specific human monoclonal IgM antibody. We attempted to map the epitope regions recognized by thesem Abs to characterize their specificities. We performed two rounds of epitope mapping, rough mapping using 10-mer peptides covering the full-length RA with 5 amino acids overlapping, and fine mapping using 8-mer peptides covering the putative epitope regions from the rough mapping with 1amino acid overlapping. As a result of the fine mapping,we identified the epitope regions of these three mAbs as(45)QVWQDCCRQ(54)L, (56)AVDDGWCRCGA(67)L and(91)FPGCRRG(98)D on the RA molecule and found to be identical. Furthermore, we determined the putative core epitope regions, which are critical for mAb binding to each region, (47)WQDCC(52)R and (60)GWC(63)R. The information about the epitope region on the RA molecule,which might trigger the allergenic response, would be useful to establish a specific immunotherapy against rice allergy.
19004533	This study investigated the status of arsenic (As) exposure from groundwater and rice, and its methylation capacity in residents from the Red River Delta, Vietnam. Arsenic levels in groundwater ranged from <1.8 to 486 microg/L. Remarkably, 86% of groundwater samples exceeded WHO drinking water guideline of 10 microg/L. Also, estimated inorganic As intake from groundwater and rice were over Provisional Tolerable Weekly Intake (15 microg/week/kg body wt.) by FAO/WHO for 92% of the residents examined. Inorganic As and its metabolite (monomethylarsonic acid and dimethylarsinic acid) concentrations in human urine were positively correlated with estimated inorganic As intake. These results suggest that residents in these areas are exposed to As through consumption of groundwater and rice, and potential health risk of As is of great concern for these people. Urinary concentration ratios of dimethylarsinic acid to monomethylarsonic acid in children were higher than those in adults, especially among men, indicating greater As methylation capacity in children.
19005086	Plants have evolved complex regulatory mechanisms to control the defense response against microbial attack. Both temporal and spatial gene expression are tightly regulated in response to pathogen ingress, modulating both positive and negative control of defense. BLUFENSIN1 (BLN1), a small peptide belonging to a novel family of proteins in barley (Hordeum vulgare), is highly induced by attack from the obligate biotrophic fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), casual agent of powdery mildew disease. Computational interrogation of the Bln1 gene family determined that members reside solely in the BEP clade of the Poaceae family, specifically, barley, rice (Oryza sativa), and wheat (Triticum aestivum). Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of Bln1 enhanced plant resistance in compatible interactions, regardless of the presence or absence of functional Mla coiled-coil, nucleotide-binding site, Leu-rich repeat alleles, indicating that BLN1 can function in an R-gene-independent manner. Likewise, transient overexpression of Bln1 significantly increased accessibility toward virulent Bgh. Moreover, silencing in plants harboring the Mlo susceptibility factor decreased accessibility to Bgh, suggesting that BLN1 functions in parallel with or upstream of MLO to modulate penetration resistance. Collectively, these data suggest that the grass-specific Bln1 negatively impacts basal defense against Bgh.
19005709	Glycosyltransferases (GTs) constitute a very large multi-gene superfamily, containing several thousand members identified in sequenced organisms especially in plants. GTs are key enzymes involved in various biological processes such as cell wall formation, storage polysaccharides biosynthesis, and glycosylation of various metabolites. GTs have been identified in rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis thaliana, but their precise function has been demonstrated biochemically for only a few. In this work we have established a repertoire of virtually all the wheat (Triticum aestivum) GT sequences, using the large publicly available banks of expressed sequences. Based on sequence similarity with Arabidopsis and rice GTs compiled in the carbohydrate active enzyme database (CAZY), we have identified and classified these wheat sequences. The results were used to feed a searchable database available on the web (http://wwwappli.nantes.inra.fr:8180/GTIDB) that can be used for initiating an exhaustive candidate gene survey in wheat applied to a particular biological process. This is illustrated through the identification of GT families which are expressed during cell wall formation in wheat grain maturation.
19005977	We investigated the ability of rice-shochu postdistillation residue (RSDR) to stimulate the activity of macrophages. RSDR significantly stimulated mouse macrophage activity and induced significant IL-12 production in vitro. In syngeneic C38 solid tumor model in mice, a diet containing 1.0% RSDR caused a significant suppression of tumor growth and prolonged the life span of the tumor-bearing mice. Further, using this model, mice fed for 21 days with RSDR showed significantly increased levels of serum IL-12 and IFN-gamma compared with controls. Moreover, the splenic NK cell activity of mice fed with RSDR was significantly elevated compared with that of mice on a normal diet and thereby suppressed C38 tumor growth. We also investigated the tumor growth suppressing effect of RSDR using a tumor model of B16-F10 melanoma cells. Dietary preconditioning with RSDR significantly suppressed B16-F10 tumor growth. Moreover, RSDR significantly increased the production of IL-12 either before or after B16-F10 tumor implantation. These results suggest that dietary RSDR suppresses tumor growth by stimulating the immune system of the host.
19007232	A straightforward stable isotope dilution analysis (SIDA) for the quantitative determination of trigonelline, nicotinic acid, and nicotinamide in foods such as coffee, as well as in biological samples by means of LC-MS/MS (MRM) has been developed. The coefficients of variation for their quantitative analysis in a coffee sample were 2.1% for trigonelline, 1.1% for nicotinic acid, and 3.1% for nicotinamide, and recovery experiments showed good results between 98.5 and 104.5%. Application of this SIDA for the quantification of trigonelline, nicotinic acid, and nicotinamide in coffee samples of different roasting degrees revealed a drastic degradation of trigonelline as well as the generation of nicotinic acid accounting for 4-6% of the initial trigonelline content, whereas nicotinamide remained rather constant at a low level. Besides the analysis of coffee samples, the feasibility of the developed SIDA was verified by analysis of other foods including breakfast cereals, rice, liver, and herring, as well as human urine and plasma samples.
19007449	We evaluated the influence of the main cereal of the diet and the degree of heat processing of rice on apparent ileal and total tract digestibility of nutrients and ileum morphology of pigs at 37 d of age. Control pigs were fed a complex diet that contained 500 g/kg cooked and flaked maize with a degree of starch gelatinisation (SG) of 840 g/kg. Experimental groups received the same complex diet in which maize was substituted (w/w) by rice with three different degrees of SG; 110, 520 and 760 g/kg that corresponded to raw rice and cooked rice processed under two different set of conditions. The digestibility of dietary components, except for nitrogen, was greater for the cooked rice--than for the raw rice--and the maize diet (P<0.001). Pigs fed cooked rice had higher villus height to crypt depth ratio (P<0.001) and greater percentage of zigzag-oriented villi and lesser percentage of tongue-oriented villi (P<0.01) than pigs fed other diets. Compared with feeding maize, feeding rice improved dietary component digestibility and ileal morphology in piglets. Mild cooking of rice (SG = 520 g/kg) enhanced diet digestibility and ileum morphology. However, processing the rice to increase SG to 760 g/kg did not increase nutrient digestibility further and in fact impaired ileal morphology.
19007900	The Mediterranean flour moth, Anagasta kuehniella, is one of the most important insect pests of grains, reported worldwide, feeding on stored grains and products of rice, rye, corn and wheat. Plants synthesize a variety of molecules, including trypsin inhibitors, to defend themselves against attack by insects. In this study, a trypsin inhibitor (PFTI) was purified from Plathymenia foliolosa (Benth.) seeds and was tested for insect growth regulatory effect. The survival and mass of A. kuehniella larvae feeding on control seeds were about 82.7% and 5 mg, respectively, whereas survival on seeds containing 0.7% PFTI was about 56%, while a 66.1% reduction in the average mass of the larvae was observed. The results from dietary utilization experiments with A. kuehniella larvae showed a reduction in efficiency of conversion of ingested food and digested food, and an increase in approximate digestibility and metabolic cost. The level of trypsin was significantly decreased in larval midgut and increased in the feces of larvae reared on a diet containing 0.7% PFTI. Results indicate that PFTI possesses a toxic effect against A. kuehniella larvae.
19008031	In this paper, black rice husk ashes (BRHAs), which are agrowastes from an electricity generating power plant and a rice mill, were ground and used as a partial cement replacement. The durability of mortars under sulfate attack including expansion and compressive strength loss were investigated. For parametric study, BRHA were used as a Portland cement Type 1 replacement at the levels of 0%, 10%, 30%, and 50% by weight of binder. The water-to-binder ratios were 0.55 and 0.65. For the durability of mortar exposed to sulfate attack, 5% sodium sulfate (Na2SO4) and magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) solutions were used. As a result, when increasing the percentage replacement of BRHA, the expansion and compressive strength loss of mortar decreased. At the replacement levels of 30% and 50% of BRHA, the expansion of the mortars was less than those mixed with sulfate-resistant cement. However, the expansion of the mortars exposed to Na2SO4 was more than those exposed to MgSO4. Increasing the replacement level of BRHA tends to reduce the compressive strength loss of mortars exposed to Na2SO4 attack. In contrary, under MgSO4 attack, when increasing the replacement level of BRHA, the compressive strength loss increases from 0% to 50% in comparison to Portland cement mortar. Results show that ground BRHA can be applied as a pozzolanic material to concrete and also improve resistance to sodium sulfate attack, but it can impair resistance to magnesium sulfate attack.
19008945	Rac1 is a small GTPase involved in actin cytoskeleton organization and polarized cell growth in many organisms. In this study, we investigate the biological function of MgRac1, a Rac1 homolog in Magnaporthe grisea. The MgRac1 deletion mutants are defective in conidial production. Among the few conidia generated, they are malformed and defective in appressorial formation and consequently lose pathogenicity. Genetic complementation with native MgRac1 fully recovers all these defective phenotypes. Consistently, expression of a dominant negative allele of MgRac1 exhibits the same defect as the deletion mutants, while expression of a constitutively active allele of MgRac1 can induce abnormally large conidia with defects in infection-related growth. Furthermore, we show the interactions between MgRac1 and its effectors, including the PAK kinase Chm1 and NADPH oxidases (Nox1 and Nox2), by the yeast two-hybrid assay. While the Nox proteins are important for pathogenicity, the MgRac1-Chm1 interaction is responsible for conidiogenesis. A constitutively active Chm1 mutant, in which the Rac1-binding PBD domain is removed, fully restores conidiation of the MgRac1 deletion mutants, but these conidia do not develop appressoria normally and are not pathogenic to rice plants. Our data suggest that the MgRac1-Chm1 pathway is responsible for conidiogenesis, but additional pathways, including the Nox pathway, are necessary for appressorial formation and pathogenicity.
19009455	Following the success of transgenic maize and rice, methods have now been developed for the efficient introduction of genes into wheat, barley and oats. This review summarizes the present position in relation to these three species, and also uses information from field trial databases and the patent literature to assess the future trends in the exploitation of transgenic material. This analysis includes agronomic traits and also discusses opportunities in expanding areas such as biofuels and biopharming.
1901022	The chloroplast genomes of Marchantia polymorpha, Nicotiana tabacum, and Oryza sativa contain open reading frames (ORFs or potential genes) encoding homologues of some of the subunits of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I). Seven of these subunits (ND1-ND4, ND4L, ND5, and ND6) are products of the mitochondrial genome, and two others (the 49- and 30-kDa components of the iron-sulfur protein fraction) are nuclear gene products. These findings have been taken to indicate the presence in chloroplasts of an enzyme related to complex I, possibly an NAD(P)H:plastoquinone oxidoreductase, participating in chlororespiration. This view is reinforced by the present work in which we have shown that chloroplast genomes encode a homologue of the 23-kDa subunit, another nuclear-encoded component of bovine complex I. The 23-kDa subunit is in the hydrophobic protein fraction of the enzyme, the residuum after removal of the flavoprotein and iron-sulfur protein fractions. The sequence motif CysXXCysXXCysXXXCysPro, which provides ligands for tetranuclear iron-sulfur centers in ferredoxins, occurs twice in its polypeptide chain and is evidence of two associated 4Fe-4S clusters. This is the only iron-sulfur protein identified so far in the hydrophobic protein fraction of complex I, and so it is possible that one of these centers is that known as N-2, the donor of electrons to ubiquinone. The sequence of the 23-kDa subunit is closely related to potential proteins, which also contain the cysteine-rich sequence motifs, encoded in the frxB ORFs in chloroplast genomes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
19010998	Mitochondria in rice (Oryza sativa) are vital in expanding our understanding of the cellular response to reoxygenation of tissues after anaerobiosis, the crossroads of carbon and nitrogen metabolism, and the role of respiratory energy generation in cytoplasmic male sterility. We have combined density gradient and surface charge purification techniques with proteomics to provide an in-depth proteome of rice shoot mitochondria covering both soluble and integral membrane proteins. Quantitative comparisons of mitochondria purified by density gradients and after further surface charge purification have been used to ensure that the proteins identified copurify with mitochondria and to remove contaminants from the analysis. This rigorous approach to defining a subcellular proteome has yielded 322 nonredundant rice proteins and highlighted contaminants in previously reported rice mitochondrial proteomes. Comparative analysis with the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mitochondrial proteome reveals conservation of a broad range of known and unknown function proteins in plant mitochondria, with only approximately 20% not having a clear homolog in the Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteome. As in Arabidopsis, only approximately 60% of the rice mitochondrial proteome is predictable using current organelle-targeting prediction tools. Use of the rice protein data set to explore rice transcript data provided insights into rice mitochondrial biogenesis during seed germination, leaf development, and heterogeneity in the expression of nucleus-encoded mitochondrial components in different rice tissues. Highlights include the identification of components involved in thiamine synthesis, evidence for coexpressed and unregulated expression of specific components of protein complexes, a selective anther-enhanced subclass of the decarboxylating segment of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, the differential expression of DNA and RNA replication components, and enhanced expression of specific metabolic components in photosynthetic tissues.
19010999	The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) hexokinase 1 (AtHXK1) is recognized as an important glucose (Glc) sensor. However, the function of hexokinases as Glc sensors has not been clearly demonstrated in other plant species, including rice (Oryza sativa). To investigate the functions of rice hexokinase isoforms, we characterized OsHXK5 and OsHXK6, which are evolutionarily related to AtHXK1. Transient expression analyses using GFP fusion constructs revealed that OsHXK5 and OsHXK6 are associated with mitochondria. Interestingly, the OsHXK5DeltamTP-GFP and OsHXK6DeltamTP-GFP fusion proteins, which lack N-terminal mitochondrial targeting peptides, were present mainly in the nucleus with a small amount of the proteins seen in the cytosol. In addition, the OsHXK5NLS-GFP and OsHXK6NLS-GFP fusion proteins harboring nuclear localization signals were targeted predominantly in the nucleus, suggesting that these OsHXKs retain a dual-targeting ability to mitochondria and nuclei. In transient expression assays using promoterluciferase fusion constructs, these two OsHXKs and their catalytically inactive alleles dramatically enhanced the Glc-dependent repression of the maize (Zea mays) Rubisco small subunit (RbcS) and rice alpha-amylase genes in mesophyll protoplasts of maize and rice. Notably, the expression of OsHXK5, OsHXK6, or their mutant alleles complemented the Arabidopsis glucose insensitive2-1 mutant, thereby resulting in wild-type characteristics in seedling development, Glc-dependent gene expression, and plant growth. Furthermore, transgenic rice plants overexpressing OsHXK5 or OsHXK6 exhibited hypersensitive plant growth retardation and enhanced repression of the photosynthetic gene RbcS in response to Glc treatment. These results provide evidence that rice OsHXK5 and OsHXK6 can function as Glc sensors.
19011003	Plant disease resistance governed by quantitative trait loci (QTL) is predicted to be effective against a broad spectrum of pathogens and long lasting. Use of these QTL to improve crop species, however, is hindered because the genes contributing to the trait are not known. Five disease resistance QTL that colocalized with defense response genes were accumulated by marker-aided selection to develop blast-resistant varieties. One advanced backcross line carrying the major-effect QTL on chromosome (chr) 8, which included a cluster of 12 germin-like protein (OsGLP) gene members, exhibited resistance to rice (Oryza sativa) blast disease over 14 cropping seasons. To determine if OsGLP members contribute to resistance and if the resistance was broad spectrum, a highly conserved portion of the OsGLP coding region was used as an RNA interference trigger to silence a few to all expressed chr 8 OsGLP family members. Challenge with two different fungal pathogens (causal agents of rice blast and sheath blight diseases) revealed that as more chr 8 OsGLP genes were suppressed, disease susceptibility of the plants increased. Of the 12 chr 8 OsGLPs, one clustered subfamily (OsGER4) contributed most to resistance. The similarities of sequence, gene organization, and roles in disease resistance of GLP family members in rice and other cereals, including barley (Hordeum vulgare) and wheat (Triticum aestivum), suggest that resistance contributed by the chr 8 OsGLP is a broad-spectrum, basal mechanism conserved among the Gramineae. Natural selection may have preserved a whole gene family to provide a stepwise, flexible defense response to pathogen invasion.
19011004	Multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) transporters represent a large family in plants, but their functions are poorly understood. Here, we report the function of a rice (Oryza sativa) MATE gene (Os03g0216700, OsFRDL1), the closest homolog of barley (Hordeum vulgare) HvAACT1 (aluminum [Al]-activated citrate transporter 1), in terms of metal stress (iron [Fe] deficiency and Al toxicity). This gene was mainly expressed in the roots and the expression level was not affected by either Fe deficiency or Al toxicity. Knockout of this gene resulted in leaf chlorosis, lower leaf Fe concentration, higher accumulation of zinc and manganese concentration in the leaves, and precipitation of Fe in the root's stele. The concentration of citrate and ferric iron in the xylem sap was lower in the knockout line compared to the wild-type rice. Heterologous expression of OsFRDL1 in Xenopus oocytes showed transport activity for citrate. Immunostaining showed that OsFRDL1 was localized at the pericycle cells of the roots. On the other hand, there was no difference in the Al-induced secretion of citrate from the roots between the knockout line and the wild-type rice. Taken together, our results indicate that OsFRDL1 is a citrate transporter localized at the pericycle cells, which is necessary for efficient translocation of Fe to the shoot as a Fe-citrate complex.
19011055	The combined high pressure and heat resistances of spores of five proteolytic Clostridium botulinum strains and of the nonpathogenic surrogate strain Clostridium sporogenes PA3679 were compared with their heat-only resistances on the basis of equivalent accumulated thermal lethality, expressed as equivalent minutes at a reference temperature of 105 degrees C (F(105 degrees C). Comparisons were made with three model (i.e., diluted) products, namely, 30% (wt/wt) Bolognese sauce, 50% (wt/wt) cream sauce, and rice water agar. Pressure was determined to act synergistically with heat during high-pressure thermal (HPT) processing for C. botulinum FRRB 2802 (NCTC 7273) and C. botulinum FRRB 2804 (NCTC 3805 and 62A) in the Bolognese and cream sauces and for C. botulinum FRRB 2807 (213B) in the Bolognese sauce only. No synergy was observed for C. botulinum FRRB 2803 (NCTC 2916) or FRRB 2806 (62A) or C. sporogenes FRRB 2790 (NCTC 8594 and PA3679) in any of the model products. No significant protective effect of pressure against spore inactivation was determined for any Clostridium strain in any product. Because synergy was not consistently observed among strains of C. botulinum or among products, the prediction of inactivation of C. botulinum spores by HPT sterilization (HPTS) for the present must assume a complete lack of synergy. Therefore, any HPTS process for low-acid shelf-stable foods must be at least thermally equivalent to an F(0) process of 2.8 min, in line with current good manufacturing practices. The results of this study suggest that the use of C. sporogenes PA3679 as a surrogate organism may risk overestimating inactivation of C. botulinum by HPT processing.
19011360	Maintaining redox balance is one of the crucial requirements for a cell to endure stress from the outside. Dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR; EC 1.8.5.1) plays an important role in the ascorbate-glutathione cycle; one of the major ROS scavenging systems in most known biological systems. A cDNA clone of the DHAR gene from Oryza sativa (OsDHAR) was isolated and overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) strain from the pET-28a(+) expression vector. The OsDHAR transformed E. coli cells showed significantly higher DHAR activity and a lower level of ROS than the E. coli cells transformed by an empty pET-28a(+) vector. Also, the DHAR-overexpressing E. coli strain was more tolerant to oxidant- and heavy metal-mediated stress conditions than the control E. coli strain. The results suggest that the overexpressed rice DHAR gene effectively functions in a prokaryotic system and provide protection to various oxidative stresses.
19011650	To describe the development of a European computerized 24-h dietary recall method for adolescents, and to investigate the feasibility of self-administration (self report) by comparison with administration by a dietician (interview). Two hundred and thirty-six adolescents (mean age 14.6 years (s.d.=1.7)) of eight European cities completed the 24-h recall (Young Adolescents Nutrition Assessment on Computer (YANA-C)) twice (once by self-report and once by interview). A small but significant underestimate in energy (61 (s.e.=31) kcal) and fat (4.2 (s.e.=1.7) g) intake was found in the self-reports in comparison with the interviews; no significant differences were found for the intake of carbohydrates, proteins, fibre, calcium, iron and ascorbic acid. Spearman's correlations were highly significant for all nutrients and energy ranging between 0.86 and 0.91. Agreement in categorizing the respondents as consumers and non-consumers for the 29 food groups was high (kappa statistics >or=0.73). Percentage omissions were on average 3.7%; percentage intrusions: 2.0%. Spearman's correlations between both modes were high for all food groups, for the total sample (>or=0.76) as well as for the consumers only (>or=0.72). Analysing the consumer only, on an average 54% of the consumed amounts were exactly the same; nevertheless, only for one group 'rice and pasta' a significant difference in consumption was found. Adaptation, translation and standardization of YANA-C make it possible to assess the dietary intake of adolescents in a broad international context. In general, good agreement between the administration modes was found, the latter offering significant potential for large-scale surveys where the amount of resources to gather data is limited.
19011765	Heterosis-Related Gene Database (HRGD) is designed to manage the output of comparative transcriptomic studies related to heterosis (or hybrid vigor) among major agricultural crops, providing publicly available query and analysis platform for practical data mining. The database contains information concerning over 5,000 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) among the hybrid-parent tissue panels from rice genomes generated in our institute and other genomes of major cereal crops collected from published literatures. We have annotated relevant genes from manually extracted information includes not only gene sequences, genomic structures, and functional annotations but also empirical expression data generated based on various large-scale genomic methods. Tools for visualization and functional analysis of DEGs from various hybrid-parent tissue panels are also integrated via a user-friendly web interface. HRGD is a useful tool for helping plant biologists and crop breeders to explore biological knowledge that is being generated on a daily basis and in a large scale. The HRGD data resource is publicly available at http://hrgd.genomics.org.cn/ .
19012405	Color measurements on flour of five raw rice cultivars with different degrees of milling (DOM) showed that red and brown pigments are concentrated in the outer rice layers, i.e. bran and outer endosperm (DOM < 15%). Extinction measurements (lambda 450 nm) of rice extracts showed that yellow pigments are virtually absent in the middle and core endosperm (DOM > 15%). The relation between the extinction values and the yellow color parameter (b*) showed that both are representative for the yellow pigment content of flour from rice with DOM lower than 9%. Determinations of the carotenoid levels in raw brown rice samples indicated that carotenoid levels in raw brown rice are lower than in common nonrice cereals. The major brown rice carotenoids are beta-carotene and lutein (both ca. 100 ng/g), while zeaxanthin levels are lower (ca. 30 ng/g). Regression analyses indicated that yellowness, extinction values, and quantitative carotenoid data are related. b*-Values and contents of total carotenoids (r = 0.70), beta-carotene (r = 0.84), lutein (r = 0.78), and zeaxanthin (r = 0.83) were linearly related. However, extinction values (lambda 450 nm) and contents of total carotenoids (r = 0.92), beta-carotene (r = 0.91), lutein (r = 0.89), and zeaxanthin (r = 0.84) showed the best correlations. The three-step hydrothermal treatment parboiling reduces carotenoid contents of brown rice to trace levels. Consequently, pigments do not contribute to the final color of milled parboiled rice.
19012603	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of feeding green fodder, rice straw and concentrate-based total mixed rations (TMR) on dry matter (DM) intake (DMI), nutrient utilization, rumen fermentation patterns and body weight (BW) gain (BWG) in mithun (Bos frontalis) calves. In a randomized block design, male mithun calves (n = 18, 8-10 months of age, 121 +/- 2 kg BW) were randomly divided into three experimental equal groups (six animals in each group) and fed isonitrogenous TMRs ad libitum for 120 days. The TMR(1) contained 30% Napier grass and 30% rice straw, TMR(2) contained 60% rice straw and TMR(3) contained 30% tree leaves (Lagerstroemia speciosa) and 30% rice straw (DM basis). All the TMRs contained 40% concentrate mixture (DM basis). The results indicated that the BWG, DMI and feed conversion efficiency were significantly (p < 0.01) increased with the inclusion of green fodder in TMRs. The apparent digestibility of DM, crude protein, ether extract, crude fibre and nitrogen free extract were also improved significantly (p < 0.01) with the inclusion of green fodder in TMRs. The higher concentration of total nitrogen and total volatile fatty acid in rumen liquor, but low ruminal pH were evident in animals fed green fodder supplemented TMRs. An increased (p < 0.01) molar proportion of acetic acid was evident in animals fed rice straw-based TMR. In contrast, the molar proportion of propionic and butyric acids were significantly (p < 0.01) higher in animals fed green fodder supplemented TMRs. On the basis of higher DMI and higher daily BWG, it is concluded that Napier grass and L. speciosa tree leaves may be incorporated upto 30% (DM basis) in TMR of growing mithuns for feeding in complete confinement system.
19013643	The physiological, biochemical, and proteomic changes in germinating rice seedlings were investigated under arsenic stress. A marked decrease in germination percentage, shoot, and root elongation as well as plant biomass was observed with arsenic treatments, as compared to control, whereas accumulation of arsenic and malondialdehyde (MDA) in seedlings were increased significantly with increasing arsenic concentration (both AsIII and AsV). The up-regulation of some antioxidant enzyme activities and the isozymes of superoxide dismutase (SOD, EC 1.15.1.1), ascorbate peroxidase (APX, EC 1.11.1.11), peroxidase (POD, EC 1.11.1.7), and glutathione reductase (GR, 1.6.4.2) substantiated that arsenic accumulation generated oxidative stress, which was more pronounced in As(III) treatment. We also studied the protective effect of reduced glutathione (GSH) and cysteine (Cys) to As(III)/As(V) stressed seedlings. Both GSH and Cys imparted enhanced tolerance to seedlings against arsenic stress. Seedlings growth improved while level of MDA declined significantly when GSH and Cys were supplemented to As(III)/As(V) treatments suggesting GSH and Cys-mediated protection against oxidative stress. The arsenic content was highest in roots of seedlings grown in As(III) in the presence of GSH/Cys. However, in case of As(V) plus GSH or Cys, the arsenic content in seedlings was highest in shoots. The results are suggestive of differential metabolism of As(III) and As(V) in rice.
19013663	Two stage-specific genes have been isolated from a subtractive cDNA library constructed from developing anthers of lily (Lilium longiflorum). The proteins encoded by the two genes have a strong hydrophobic region at the N-terminus, indicating the presence of a signal peptide. The deduced LLA-67 is a new type of small cysteine-rich protein whose sequence exhibits four consecutive CX(3)CX(6-10) repeats that could form signal-receiving finger motifs, while the deduced LLA-115 protein shows significant similarities to a rice unknown protein, and putative cell wall proteins of Medicago truncatula and Arabidopsis. The transcripts of LLA-67 and LLA-115 were anther specific and differentially detected at the phase of microspore development. In situ hybridization with antisense riboprobes of the two genes in the anther showed strong signals localized to the tapetal layer of the anther wall. The LLA-67 mRNA was also detected in the microspore at the phase of microspore development but the LLA-115 mRNA was not. The LLA-115 gene can be exogenously induced by gibberellin (GA), whereas the LLA-67 gene cannot be induced. Studies with the GA biosynthesis inhibitor uniconazole and an inhibitor of ethylene activity, 2,5-norbornadien (NBD), revealed that the two genes were negatively regulated by ethylene and a cross-talk between GA and ethylene was involved in the regulation of the two genes occurring in young anthers. The treatment of NBD caused the tapetum to become densely cytoplasmic and highly polarized, whereas uniconazole arrested tapetal development to a status close to that of control. DNA blots of lily genomic DNA indicated that the two genes were encoded by a small gene family. The different actions of hormones on gene expression and the possible function of the gene products in young anthers are discussed.
19014580	The mitochondria of contemporary organisms contain fewer genes than the ancestral bacteria are predicted to have contained. Because most of the mitochondrial proteins are encoded in the nucleus, the genes would have been transferred from the mitochondrion to the nucleus at some stage of evolution and they must have acquired cis-regulatory elements compatible with eukaryotic gene expression. However, most of such processes remain unknown. The ribosomal protein L6 gene (rpl6) has been lost in presently-known angiosperm mitochondrial genomes. We found that each of the two rice rpl6 genes (OsRpl6-1 and OsRpl6-2) has an intron in an identical position within the 5'-untranslated region (UTR), which suggests a duplication of the rpl6 gene after its transfer to the nucleus. Each of the predicted RPL6 proteins lacks an N-terminal extension as a mitochondrial targeting signal. Transient assays using green fluorescent protein indicated that their mature N-terminal coding regions contain the mitochondrial targeting information. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis showed that OsRpl6-2 expresses considerably fewer transcripts than OsRpl6-1. This might be the result of differences in promoter regions because the 5'-noncoding regions of the two rpl6 genes differ at a point close to the center of the intron. There are several sequences homologous to the region around the 5'-UTR of OsRpl6-1 in the rice genome. These sequences have characteristics similar to those of the transposable elements (TE) belonging to the PIF/Harbinger superfamily. The above evidences suggest a novel mechanism in which the 5'-UTR of the transferred mitochondrial gene was acquired via a TE. Since the 5'-UTRs and introns within the 5'-UTRs often contain transcriptional and posttranscriptional cis-elements, the transferred rice mitochondrial rpl6 gene may have acquired its cis-element from a TE.
19015323	We developed a novel approach for de novo genome assembly using only sequence data from high-throughput short read sequencing technologies. By combining data generated from 454 Life Sciences (Roche) and Illumina (formerly known as Solexa sequencing) sequencing platforms, we reliably assembled genomes into large scaffolds at a fraction of the traditional cost and without use of a reference sequence. We applied this method to two isolates of the phytopathogenic bacteria Pseudomonas syringae. Sequencing and reassembly of the well-studied tomato and Arabidopsis pathogen, Pto(DC3000), facilitated development and testing of our method. Sequencing of a distantly related rice pathogen, Por(1_)(6), demonstrated our method's efficacy for de novo assembly of novel genomes. Our assembly of Por(1_6) yielded an N50 scaffold size of 531,821 bp with >75% of the predicted genome covered by scaffolds over 100,000 bp. One of the critical phenotypic differences between strains of P. syringae is the range of plant hosts they infect. This is largely determined by their complement of type III effector proteins. The genome of Por(1_6) is the first sequenced for a P. syringae isolate that is a pathogen of monocots, and, as might be predicted, its complement of type III effectors differs substantially from the previously sequenced isolates of this species. The genome of Por(1_6) helps to define an expansion of the P. syringae pan-genome, a corresponding contraction of the core genome, and a further diversification of the type III effector complement for this important plant pathogen species.
19015668	Grain weight is a major determinant of crop grain yield and is controlled by naturally occurring quantitative trait loci (QTLs). We earlier identified a major QTL that controls rice grain width and weight, GW5, which was mapped to a recombination hotspot on rice chromosome 5. To gain a better understanding of how GW5 controls rice grain width, we conducted fine mapping of this locus and uncovered a 1 212-bp deletion associated with the increased grain width in the rice cultivar Asominori, in comparison with the slender grain rice IR24. In addition, genotyping analyses of 46 rice cultivars revealed that this deletion is highly correlated with the grain-width phenotype, suggesting that the GW5 deletion might have been selected during rice domestication. GW5 encodes a novel nuclear protein of 144 amino acids that is localized to the nucleus. Furthermore, we show that GW5 physically interacts with polyubiquitin in a yeast two-hybrid assay. Together, our results suggest that GW5 represents a major QTL underlying rice width and weight, and that it likely acts in the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway to regulate cell division during seed development. This study provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms controlling rice grain development and suggests that GW5 could serve as a potential tool for high-yield breeding of crops.Cell Research (2008) 18:1199-1209. doi: 10.1038/cr.2008.307; published online 18 November 2008.
19015948	The formulation and evaluation of trehalose nano-organogels for storage and oral delivery of Newcastle disease (ND) strain I-2 vaccine to chickens were carried out in this study. Trehalose sugar was blended with vegetable oil to form nano-organogels where trehalose also acted as a stabilizer against thermal inactivation of I-2 ND virus. Results from infectivity titration assay indicated that the titre of 10(7.5) EID(50)/0.1 mL was maintained after 12 weeks of storage of nano-organogel I-2 vaccine at ambient room temperature. Serology results showed that 33% chickens which were vaccinated with nano-organogel I-2 vaccine after 14 days had HI antibody titres of > or = 3.0 log(2) with GMT of 2.3. Moreover, results showed 100% of chickens vaccinated with nano-organogel I-2 vaccine had the mean antibody titres of 3.4 and 3.7 log(2) at 21 and 28 days after vaccination, respectively. All vaccinated chickens (100%) survived the challenge of virulent ND virus whereas all unvaccinated chickens succumbed to challenge and died of signs consistent with ND. The findings from this study showed that the nano-organogel I-2 vaccine was stable at room temperature, safe and produced protective antibody response in vaccinated chickens. Moreover the nano-organogel I-2 vaccine was used for oral administration and hence is suitable for mass vaccination. However, optimization of the formulation of trehalose nano-organogel vaccine is required in order to achieve its application potentials.
19015992	Male and female, black and white political interviewees (M. Albright, B. Clinton, H. Clinton, B. Obama, C. Powell, and C. Rice) of Larry King on CNN TV are used to ascertain whether ethnicity and gender affect the way politicians actually speak. Qualitative comparisons are made of Obama's hesitations and rate with and without a threatening context. A number of normalized response measures are evaluated quantitatively: percentage of syllables spoken by each interviewee, and use of interjections, interruptions, self-referent I, non-standard English, y' know, and syllables of laughter. Senator Obama and Secretary of State Rice become the focus of the comparative evidence that both ethnicity and gender do indeed influence the speaking of politicians.
19017488	Calmodulin (CaM) proteins, members of the EF-hand family of Ca(2+)- binding proteins, represent important relays in plant calcium signals. Here, OsCam1-1 was isolated by PCR amplification from the rice genome. The gene contains an ORF of 450 base pairs with a single intron at the same position found in other plant Cam genes. A promoter region with a TATA box at position-26 was predicted and fused to a gus reporter gene, and this construct was used to produce transgenic rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. GUS activity was observed in all organs examined and throughout tissues in cross-sections, but activity was strongest in the vascular bundles of leaves and the vascular cylinders of roots. To examine the properties of OsCaM1-1, the encoding cDNA was expressed in Escherichia coli. The electrophoretic mobility shift when incubated with Ca(2+) indicates that recombinant OsCaM1-1 is a functional Ca(2+)-binding protein. In addition, OsCaM1-1 bound the CaMKII target peptide confirming its likely functionality as a calmodulin.
19017626	By means of functional screening using the cadmium (Cd)-sensitive ycf1 yeast mutant, we have isolated a novel cDNA clone, DcCDT1, from Digitaria ciliaris growing in a former mining area in northern Japan, and have shown that it confers Cd tolerance to the yeast cells, which accumulated almost 2-fold lower Cd levels than control cells. The 521 bp DcCDT1 cDNA contains an open reading frame of 168 bp and encodes a deduced peptide, DcCDT1, that is 55 amino acid residues in length, of which 15 (27.3%) are cysteine residues. Five DcCDT1 homologs (here termed OsCDT1-OsCDT5) have been identified in rice, and all of them were up-regulated to varying degrees in the above-ground tissues by CdCl(2) treatment. Localization of green fluorescent protein fusions suggests that DcCDT1 and OsCDT1 are targeted to both cytoplasmic membranes and cell walls of plant cells. Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants overexpressing DcCDT1 or OsCDT1 displayed a Cd-tolerant phenotype and, consistent with our yeast data, accumulated lower amounts of Cd when grown on CdCl(2). Collectively, our data suggest that DcCDT1 and OsCDT1 function to prevent entry of Cd into yeast and plant cells and thereby enhance their Cd tolerance.
19018588	A real-time polymerase chain reaction approach was used in this study to determine the population of major ruminal bacterial species (Fibrobacter succinogenes, Ruminococcus albus, and Ruminococcus flavefaciens) in digesta and rumen fluid of swamp buffalo (Bubalus bubalis). Four rumen-fistulated, male swamp buffalo were randomly assigned according to a 4 x 4 Latin square design to evaluate the effect of the urea-treated rice straw (roughage source)-to-concentrate ratio on cellulolytic bacterial distribution. Animals were fed roughage-to-concentrate (R:C) ratios of 100:0, 75:25, 50:50, and 25:75, respectively. At the end of each period, rumen fluid and digesta were collected at 0 h and 4 h post-morning-feeding. It was found that feeding urea-treated rice straw solely increased these three cellulolytic bacteria numbers up to 2.65 x 10(9) and 3.54 x 10(9) copies per milliliter for F. succinogenes, 5.10 x 10(7) and 7.40 x 10(7) copies per milliliter for R. flavefaciens, and 4.00 x 10(6) and 6.00 x 10(6) copies per milliliter for R. albus in rumen fluid and digesta, respectively. The distribution of the three cellulolytic bacteria species in digesta were highest at 3.21 x 10(9), 4.55 x 10(7), and 4.56 x 10(6) copies per milliliter for F. succinogenes, R. flavefaciens, and R. albus, respectively. Moreover, at 4 h post-morning-feeding, the populations of the three cellulolytic bacteria were higher than found at 0 h post-morning-feeding. It is most notable that F. succinogenes were the highest in population in the rumen of swamp buffalo and cellulolytic bacteria mostly adhered to feed digesta in the rumen.
19018742	With progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD), disorders of mineral metabolism appear. The classic sequence of events begins with a deficit of calcitriol synthesis and retention of phosphorus. As a result of this, serum calcium decreases and parathyroid hormone (PTH) is stimulated, producing in the bone the high turnover (HT) bone disease known as osteitis fibrosa while on the other extreme we find the forms of low turnover (LT) bone disease. Described later and initially associated with aluminum intoxication, these diseases are now seen primarily in older and/or diabetic patients, who in a uremic setting have relatively low levels of PTH to maintain normal bone turnover. Osteomalacia is also included in this group, which after the disappearance of aluminum intoxication is rarely observed. LT forms of hyperparathyroidism facilitate the exit of calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P) from bone, whereas the adynamic bone limits the incorporation of Ca and P into bone tissue. Therefore, both forms facilitate the availability of Ca and P, which ends up being deposited in soft tissues such as arteries. The link between bone disease and vascular calcifications in CKD is now a well-established phenomenon. 2. Diagnostic strategies Calcium, Phosphorus They have little capacity to predict underlying bone disease, but their regular measurement is decisive for therapeutic management of the patient, especially in the dose titration stages of intestinal phosphorus binders, vitamin D analogs or calcimimetics. Ideally, Ca++ should be used, but total Ca is routinely used. It is recommended to adjust albumin levels in the event of hypoalbuminemia (for each g/dL of decrease in albumin, total serum Ca decreases 0.9 mg/dL). The following formula facilitates rapid calculation of corrected total calcium: Corrected total Ca (mg/dL) = total Ca (mg/dL) + 0.8 [4-albumina (g/dL)]. Parathyroid hormone "Intact" PTH is the biochemical parameter that best correlates with bone histology (levels measured with the Allegro assay from Nichols Institute Diagnostics, no longer available). Various assays are currently available that use antibodies against different fragments of the molecule, but they have significant intermethod variability and have not been validated. A whole PT assay (1-84) is currently unavailable. A consensus to establish uniform criteria for PTH measurement remains to be established. During the dose titration stages of intestinal phosphorus binders, vitamin D analogs or calcimimetics, more frequent measurement may be required based on clinical judgment. Calcifediol (25(OH)D3) It is important to maintain adequate levels of 25(OH)D3 (> 30 ng/mL), since they will be the substrate for production of 1- 25(OH)2 D3, and their deficiency aggravates hyperthyroidism. Determining 25(OH)D3 levels every 6-12 months is a recommended guideline. Other markers of bone turnover (osteocalcin, total and bone alkaline phosphate, free pyridolines in serum, and C-terminal telopeptide of collagen) do not improve the predictive power of PTH and therefore their systematic use is not justified. Radiologic studies Radiologic studies are of little diagnostic utility, because biochemical changes precede radiologic changes. Systematic radiologic evaluation of the skeleton in asymptomatic patients is not justified at present. They are useful as the first step in the study to detect vascular calcifications and amyloidosis due to b2-microglobulin and in symptomatic and at risk patients to detect vertebral fractures. Bone densitometry: Dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) is the standard method to determine bone mineral density (usually in the femoral neck and vertebrae). It provides information on changes in bone mineral content, but not on the type of underlying bone disease. It is useful for follow-up of bone mass or for the study of bone mass changes in the same patient. Its value as a predictor of the risk of fracture has not been demonstrated in patients on kidney replacement therapy or with advanced chronic kidney disease. It is indicated in patients with fractures or risk factors for osteoporosis. Bone biopsy: The "gold standard" for diagnosis of bone disease. With improved knowledge of the value of noninvasive parameters, its use is infrequent. Pathological fractures in the presence or absence of minor trauma. Symptomatic patients in the presence of incongruent clinical parameters. A typical case is the presence of unexplained hypercalcemia from systemic disease, with inconclusive serum PTH values (between 120-450 pg/mL as an estimated range). Evaluation and follow-up of cardiovascular calcifications There are no consensuated clinical practice guidelines for the evaluation and follow-up of extraosseal calcifications in CKD. The clinical tools for evaluation and follow-up of cardiovascular disease are used based on clinical judgment. The periodicity of follow-up has not been established . 3. Recommended biochemical values The biochemical values recommended in clinical practice guidelines for the evaluation of bone mineral metabolism are summarized in Figure 3. The recommended PTH values do not fully coincide with the K/DOQI guidelines. The wide variability in PTH values depending on the assays used has led us to expand the recommended PTH range in stage 3 and 4 CKD. 4. Treatment 4.1. Diet. The recommended diet for the patient with CKD is traditionally based on protein restriction and phosphorus restriction for control of mineral metabolism. A favorable circumstance is that there is a close relationship between protein and phosphorus intake. In CKD stages 3, 4 and 5, it is recommended to restrict phosphorus intake to between 0.8-1 g/day when serum levels of phosphorus and PTH are above the recommended range. This is approximately equivalent to a diet of 50-60 g of protein. This reasonable antiproteinuric strategy that also restricts phosphorus intake is nutritionally safe. What should we tell them to eat? In a practical and oversimplified way, we recommend the following daily intake: Animal proteins: 1 serving (100-120 g), dairy products: 1 serving (equivalent to 200-240 mL of milk or 2 yoghourts), bread, cereals, pastas (1 cup of pasta, rice or legumes + some bread or cookies), vegetables and fruits relatively freely, but with moderation. 4.2. Medication Vitamin D supplements should be provided if serum levels are less than 30 ng/mL. In Spain, vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) is marketed as Vitamin D3 Berenguer 2,000 IU/mL of solution. Combinations of calcium with cholecalciferol are also available. Most of the dosage forms contain approximately 500 mg of Ca+ and 400 IU of cholecalciferol. Alternatively, calcifediol (25(OH)D3), as Hidroferol 100 mcg/mL, has been used, although the dose range is very variable and has not been established. 4.3. Phosphorus binders. Use if hyperphosphatemia occurs. Start with calcium-containing phosphorus binders (calcium carbonate or calcium acetate), which also provide calcium if dietary intake is inadequate. Do not exceed 1.5 g of Ca++ per day. The most used are calcium carbonate and calcium acetate. Calcium acetate shows a similar binding potency to calcium carbonate but with a lesser calcium overload, and thus would have certain advantages as well as its greater effect at different pH ranges. However, gastric intolerance is more frequent with this dosage form. Aluminum hydroxide may sometimes be required to control phosphoremia or the occurrence of hypercalcemia. Serum aluminum values should be maintained below 30 mcg/L. Avoid use for longer than 6 months and daily doses greater than 1.5 g. Sevelamer is associated with an increased risk of acidosis and has not been approved for use in predialysis stages. Lanthanum carbonate has been recently marketed in Spain, although its indication for use in the predialysis stage of CKD is still not approved. 4.4. Vitamin D derivatives. Indicated when PTH levels are elevated. A prerequisite for their use is that Ca and P serum levels are adequately controlled. Vitamin D derivates available in Spain are 1,25(OH)2D3 (Calcitriol)and 1a(OH)D3 (a-Calcidiol). Doses should be titrated until PTH levels are normalized. Phosphate binder doses often need to be increased because these vitamin D derivatives increase intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphorus. Low doses do not cause hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia and do not worsen the course of renal function. Recommended doses: Calcitriol 0.25 mcg every 48 hours and alpha-Calcidiol 0.50 mcg every 48 hours. Soon to be available on the Spanish market is the oral dosage form of paricalcitol (recommended initial dose of 1 mcg/24 h), with a lesser hypercalcemic and hyperphosphoremic effect. Clinical use of calcimimetics in the predialysis state is not yet recommended and is currently under investigation.
19019104	Okara is the insoluble byproduct of soymilk and tofu manufactures. It is cheap, high in nutrients, and possesses great potential to be applied to functional human foods. In this study, a puffed okara/rice cake product was developed with blends of okara pellets and parboiled rice. Consumer preference and acceptance tests were conducted for the product. Okara pellets were prepared by grinding the strands obtained from extruding a mixture of dried okara and rice flour (3:2, w/w) with a twin-screw extruder. Okara pellets and parboiled rice were blended in 4 ratios, 90:10, 70:30, 40:60, and 0:100 (w/w), and tempered to 14% and 17% moisture. The blends were puffed at 221, 232, and 243 degrees C for 4, 5, or 6 s. The okara/rice cakes were evaluated for specific volume (SPV), texture, color, and percent weight loss after tumbling. Overall, the decrease in okara content and increase in moisture, heating temperature and time led to greater specific volume (SPV) and hardness, lighter color, and lower percent weight loss after tumbling. The consumer tests indicated that the okara/rice cake containing 70% okara pellets was preferred and the 90% one was liked the least. The possible drivers of liking for the puffed okara/rice cakes could be the okara content, hardness, SPV, bright color, and percent weight loss after tumbling.
19019108	Rough rice (RR) is the conventional feedstock for parboiling. The use of brown rice (BR) instead of RR is gaining interest because it results in shorter processing time and lower energy requirement. This study compared the functional properties of milled parboiled rice under different parboiling conditions from RR and BR. Presoaked RR and BR from cultivars Bolivar, Cheniere, Dixiebelle, and Wells were parboiled under mild (20 min, 100 degrees C, 0 kPa) and severe (20 min, 120 degrees C, 98 kPa) laboratory-scale conditions. Head rice yield improved on the RR and BR samples subjected to severe parboiling and was comparable to that of a commercially parboiled sample. Mild parboiling of BR resulted in lower head rice yields. Parboiling generally resulted in decreased head rice whiteness, decreased apparent amylose, increased total lipid, and sparingly changed protein content. Under the same parboiling conditions, the extent of starch gelatinization was higher for BR compared to RR as manifested by some distinct differences in pasting and thermal properties. The cooking characteristics (water uptake ratio, leached materials, and volumetric expansion) and cooked rice texture (hardness and stickiness) of RR and BR subjected to severe parboiling were fairly comparable. Differences in parboiled rice functional properties due to cultivar effect were evident.
19019504	A review of the published literature about foliar transfer radionuclides to cereal grains was carried out with a special interest for translocation factors. Translocation describes the distribution of radionuclides within the plant after foliar deposition and radionuclide absorption onto the surface of leaves. It mainly depends on elements and the plant growth stage. The collected data were derived from both in-field and greenhouse experiments. They were analysed in order to select those coming from a contamination simulating a sprinkling irrigation or a rain. The data set contains 307 values. For each radionuclide the translocation factor values were sorted according to 5 characteristic stages of the cereal vegetative cycle: leaf development-tillering, stem elongation, earing-flowering, grain growth and ripening. Wheat, barley and rye have been treated together, independently of rice. For mobile elements such as cesium, the translocation factor is maximum when the contamination occurred at the earing-flowering stage. For less mobile elements such as strontium this maximum occurred for a foliar contamination at the grain growth stage. This review enabled us to propose the most probable value as well as the range of variation of translocation factors for some radionuclides according to the cereal vegetative cycle. Moreover, from these results, a radionuclide classification is proposed according to three mobility groups.
19019536	Quantum chemical calculations are used to compute the heats of formation (HOFs) for 24 nitroester (NE) energetic compounds in which only 5 nitroester energetic compounds have the available experimental heats of formation. The heats of formation of the five compounds are calculated from isodesmic reactions by employing the hybrid density functional theory (DFT) (B3LYP, B3PW91, and B3P86) methods with 6-31G** and 6-311G** basis sets. It is demonstrated that B3PW91/6-31G** method can yield reliable HOFs, which has the mean absolute deviation of 1.1kcal/mol. The HOFs of other 19 nitroester energetic compounds are calculated by using B3PW91/6-31G** method. Through the analysis of the calculated result, it is found that the computed heat of formation decreases when the number of methylene (CH(2)) group increases for normal chain nitroester compounds. The further study shows that our results about gas-phase heats of formation of nitroester compounds are better than the results of Muthurajan et al. [H. Muthurajan, R. Sivabalan, M.B. Talawar, M. Anniyappan, S. Venugopalan, Prediction of heat of formation and related parameters of high energy materials, J. Hazard. Mater. A133 (2006) 30-45], and Byrd Edward and Rice Betsy [F.C. Byrd Edward, M. Rice Betsy, Improved prediction of heats of formation of energetic materials using quantum mechanical calculations, J. Phys. Chem. A 110 (2006) 1005-1013]. In addition, the condensed phase heat of formation of the nitroester compounds are computed through the same method of Byrd Edward and Rice Betsy.
19020849	Ozone is the most important regional-scale air pollutant causing risks for vegetation and human health in many parts of the world. Ozone impacts on yield and quality of crops and pastures depend on precursor emissions, atmospheric transport and leaf uptake and on the plant's biochemical defence capacity, all of which are influenced by changing climatic conditions, increasing atmospheric CO(2) and altered emission patterns. In this article, recent findings about ozone effects under current conditions and trends in regional ozone levels and in climatic factors affecting the plant's sensitivity to ozone are reviewed in order to assess implications of these developments for future regional ozone risks. Based on pessimistic IPCC emission scenarios for many cropland regions elevated mean ozone levels in surface air are projected for 2050 and beyond as a result of both increasing emissions and positive effects of climate change on ozone formation and higher cumulative ozone exposure during an extended growing season resulting from increasing length and frequency of ozone episodes. At the same time, crop sensitivity may decline in areas where warming is accompanied by drying, such as southern and central Europe, in contrast to areas at higher latitudes where rapid warming is projected to occur in the absence of declining air and soil moisture. In regions with rapid industrialisation and population growth and with little regulatory action, ozone risks are projected to increase most dramatically, thus causing negative impacts major staple crops such as rice and wheat and, consequently, on food security. Crop improvement may be a way to increase crop cross-tolerance to co-occurring stresses from heat, drought and ozone. However, the review reveals that besides uncertainties in climate projections, parameters in models for ozone risk assessment are also uncertain and model improvements are necessary to better define specific targets for crop improvements, to identify regions most at risk from ozone in a future climate and to set robust effect-based ozone standards.
19020856	Comparative sequencing of GS3, the most important grain length (GL) QTL, has shown that differentiation of rice GL might be principally due to a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) between C and A in the second exon. A total of 180 varieties representing a wide range of rice germplasm were used for association analysis between C-A mutation and GL in order to confirm the potential causal mutation. A cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) marker, SF28, was developed based on the C-A polymorphism in the GS3 gene. A total of 142 varieties carried allele C with GL from 6.4 to 8.8 mm, while the remaining 38 varieties carried allele A with GL from 8.8 to 10.7 mm. Twenty-four unlinked SSR markers were selected to genotype 180 varieties for population structure analysis. Population structure was observed when the population was classified to three subpopulations. Average GL of either genotype A or genotype C within japonica among the three subpopulations had no significant difference from that in indica, respectively, although indica rice had longer grains on average than japonica in the 180 varieties. However, genotype C always had longer grain length on average than genotype A among three subpopulations. The mutation could explain 79.1, 66.4 and 34.7% of GL variation in the three subpopulations, respectively. These results clearly confirmed the mutation between C and A was highly associated with GL. The SF28 could be a functional marker for improvement of rice grain length.
19021791	Initial stage of hydrolysis of native starch granules with various amylolytic enzymes, alpha-amylase from Bacillus subtilis, glucoamylase I (GA-I) and II (GA-II) from Aspergillus niger, and beta-amylase from sweet potato showed that the reaction was apparently affected by a specific surface area of the starch granules. The ratios of the reciprocal of initial velocity of each amylolytic hydrolysis for native potato and maize starch to that for rice with the amylolytic enzymes were nearly equivalent to the ratio of surface area per mass of the 2 starch granules to that of rice, that is, 6.94 and 2.25, respectively. Thus, the reciprocal of initial velocity of each enzymatic hydrolysis as expressed in a Lineweaver-Burk plot was a linear function of the reciprocal of surface area for each starch granule. As a result, it is concluded that amylolytic hydrolysis of native starch granules is governed by the specific surface area, not by the mass concentration, of each granule.
19021804	The absorbability of calcium from ivy gourd, a green leafy vegetable (Coccinia grandix Voigt.) and winged bean young pods (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus [L] DC) were measured in 19 healthy adult women aged 20 to 45 y, in a 3-way, randomized-order, crossover design with an average calcium load of 100 mg and milk as the referent. The test meals were extrinsically labeled with 44Ca and given with rice as breakfast after an overnight fast. Absorption of calcium was determined on a blood sample drawn 5 h after ingestion of the test meal. Fractional calcium absorption (X+/- SD) was 0.391 +/- 0.128 from winged beans, 0.476 +/- 0.109 from ivy gourd, and 0.552 +/- 0.119 from milk. The difference in fractional calcium absorption for these 2 vegetables was significant (P < 0.05) and the fractional calcium absorption from these 2 vegetables were both significantly lower than from milk. The difference was partly accounted for by the phytate, oxalate, and dietary fiber content of the vegetables. However, calcium bioavailability of these 2 vegetables, commonly consumed among Thais, was relatively good compared to milk (71% to 86% of milk) and could be generally recommended to the public as calcium sources other than milk and Brassica vegetables.
19021821	Flavor is a key factor contributing to consumer acceptance and repeat purchase of rice. Plant breeders focus on production yield and ignoring quality traits because there are no readily useable tools to evaluate quality. A systematic approach is needed for rice breeders to select rice with favorable flavor traits. Descriptive sensory analysis combined with chemical analysis provided an insight of sensory significance to interpret chemical data for a better understanding approach of rice flavor. This study was aimed to develop prediction models for sensory descriptors based on the volatile components derived from the gas chromatography-olfactometry (GC-O) that would be useful to help select rice cultivars containing a satisfactory flavor to produce improved quality in rice breeding programs. Thirteen Korean specialty rice samples were evaluated for their flavor components using descriptive analysis and GC-O. Nineteen aroma attributes in cooked specialty rice samples were evaluated by 8 trained panelists and statistically correlated to the concentration of aroma-active compounds derived from GC-O analysis. Prediction models were developed for most aroma descriptors including popcorn, cooked grain, starchy, woody, smoky, grain, corn, hay-like, barny, rancid, waxy, earthy, and sweet aroma using stepwise multiple linear regression. (E,E)-2, 4-decadienal, naphthalene, guaiacol, (E)-2-hexenal, 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline, 2-heptanone contributed most to these sensory attributes. These models help provide a quantitative link between sensory characteristics of commercial rice samples and aroma volatile components desirable in developing a rapid analytical method for use by rice breeders to screen progeny for superior flavor quality.
19021904	The protein phosphatase 2Cs (PP2Cs) from various organisms have been implicated to act as negative modulators of protein kinase pathways involved in diverse environmental stress responses and developmental processes. A genome-wide overview of the PP2C gene family in plants is not yet available. A comprehensive computational analysis identified 80 and 78 PP2C genes in Arabidopsis thaliana (AtPP2Cs) and Oryza sativa (OsPP2Cs), respectively, which denotes the PP2C gene family as one of the largest families identified in plants. Phylogenic analysis divided PP2Cs in Arabidopsis and rice into 13 and 11 subfamilies, respectively, which are supported by the analyses of gene structures and protein motifs. Comparative analysis between the PP2C genes in Arabidopsis and rice identified common and lineage-specific subfamilies and potential 'gene birth-and-death' events. Gene duplication analysis reveals that whole genome and chromosomal segment duplications mainly contributed to the expansion of both OsPP2Cs and AtPP2Cs, but tandem or local duplication occurred less frequently in Arabidopsis than rice. Some protein motifs are widespread among the PP2C proteins, whereas some other motifs are specific to only one or two subfamilies. Expression pattern analysis suggests that 1) most PP2C genes play functional roles in multiple tissues in both species, 2) the induced expression of most genes in subfamily A by diverse stimuli indicates their primary role in stress tolerance, especially ABA response, and 3) the expression pattern of subfamily D members suggests that they may constitute positive regulators in ABA-mediated signaling pathways. The analyses of putative upstream regulatory elements by two approaches further support the functions of subfamily A in ABA signaling, and provide insights into the shared and different transcriptional regulation machineries in dicots and monocots. This comparative genome-wide overview of the PP2C family in Arabidopsis and rice provides insights into the functions and regulatory mechanisms, as well as the evolution and divergence of the PP2C genes in dicots and monocots. Bioinformatics analyses suggest that plant PP2C proteins from different subfamilies participate in distinct signaling pathways. Our results have established a solid foundation for future studies on the functional divergence in different PP2C subfamilies.
19022415	Complete genome sequences, which are available for rice and Arabidopsis, provide insights into many fundamental aspects of plant biology; they do not, however, address some important aspects of legume biology. Legumes are important for maintenance of human health and as crops for sustainable agriculture. Two model species of legume, Lotus japonicus and Medicago truncatula, have been the focus of projects on genome sequencing and functional genomics. A project aimed at sequencing the genome of the agricultural legume soybean recently began, but functional genomics studies of this plant are in their infancy, and therefore proteomics approaches could be a powerful tool for functional analysis. In this review, we discuss the strengths and weaknesses of proteomics technologies in soybean biology and we examine the limitations of current techniques.
19022968	Our objective was to examine the association between ethnicity and birthplace and the percent of energy from selected food groups among Hispanics, the largest growing segment of the US population. We used data from NHANES 1999-2004, collected from Mexican (n = 3375) and other Hispanic (n = 622) adults (18 y and older), classified as foreign born (FB) or US born (USB). Using University of North Carolina's food-grouping system, we created 24 nutrient- and behavioral-based food groups. We examined percent consuming and per-consumer estimates using logistic and linear regression models, respectively. Predicted mean energy was estimated using marginal effect models. All models were controlled for gender, age, income, and education and were weighted to account for sampling design. FB Hispanics obtained more energy from food groups such as legumes, fruits, and low-fat/high-fiber breads, with differences accounted for by a greater percent consuming these foods rather than higher energy intake among consumers. Conversely, FB Hispanics consumed a lower percentage of energy from foods such as non-Mexican fast food and snacks and desserts. Speaking Spanish also was associated with greater consumption of legumes, rice, fruits, soups, and potatoes. Variation in diet may in part account for the difference in nutrition-related adverse health outcomes observed among USB Hispanics, particularly Mexicans. Targeted dietary interventions are needed to reduce health disparities associated with dietary intake.
19023575	The genetic transformation efficiency of a rice variety is largely determined by its tissue culturability. Establishment of a highly efficient tissue-culture system has greatly accelerated the wide spread application of transgenic japonica varieties. However, such process for indica rice was hampered because this type of variety is recalcitrant to in vitro culture. This study aimed to map the quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for mature seed culturability using a chromosomal segment substitution lines (CSSL) population derived from a cross between an indica variety "Zhenshan 97B" and a japonica variety "Nipponbare". The CSSLs consist of 139 lines each containing a single or a few introgression segments, and together covering the whole "Nipponbare" genome. Every CSSL was tested by culturing on the two medium systems developed for the respective indica and japonica parental varieties. The performance of culturability was evaluated by four indices: frequency of callus induction (CIF), callus subculture capability (CSC), frequency of plant regeneration (PRF) and the mean plantlet number per regenerated callus (MNR). All four traits displayed continuous variation among the CSSLs. With the culture system for japonica rice, three CIF QTLs, three CSC QTLs, three PRF QTLs and three MNR QTLs were detected. With the culture system for indica variety, six CIF QTLs, two CSC QTLs, three PRF QTLs and six MNR QTLs were identified, and these QTLs distributed on nine rice chromosomes. Two QTLs of CIF and two QTLs of MNR were detected in both the japonica and indica rice culture system. The correlation coefficients of all the four traits varied depending on the culture systems. These results provide the possibilities of enhancing the culturability of indica rice by marker-assisted breeding with those desirable alleles from the japonica.
1902388	A series of 182 calcium stone formers with idiopathic hypercalciuria underwent treatment with rice bran for 1 to 94 months. Urinary calcium excretion was considerably reduced, but there was some increase in urinary phosphate and oxalate. Urinary excretion of magnesium and uric acid, serum calcium, magnesium, phosphate, uric acid, parathyroid hormone (PTH) and ALP was unaffected. There were no obvious changes in serum iron, zinc and copper even when patients were treated for long periods. Rice bran was well tolerated in almost all cases and there were no serious side effects; 49 patients have undergone treatment for more than 3 years (average duration of administration 5.09 years). The frequency of new stone formation was drastically reduced (individual stone formation rate (no./year) from 0.720 +/- 0.533 to 0.125 +/- 0.204; group stone formation rate (no./patient-year) from 0.721 to 0.120) compared with the 3-year period before treatment. During treatment, 61.2% of patients remained in remission. Although rice bran therapy should be effective in correcting absorptive hypercalciuria, there may be limits to the overall ability of rice bran monotherapy to prevent recurrence.
19024173	Rice seedlings cv. Khao Dawk Mali 105 (salt-sensitive), Luang Anan (moderately salt-tolerant) and Pokkali (salt-tolerant) were exposed to 0, 50, 100 and 150 mM NaCI for 9 d. Salinity stress caused reduction in leaf relative water contents in all cultivars. Shoot length of cv. Pokkali was least affected by salinity stress whereas increased root length in response to salinity stress was apparent in cvs. Khao Dawk Mali 105 and Luang Anan. Increased salinity level also caused reduction in fresh and dry weights in cvs. Khao Dawk Mali 105 and Luang Anan, but had no effect in cv. Pokkali except at 150 mM. Accumulation of total soluble sugars and sucrose in mature leaves were observed in cv. Khao Dawk Mali 105 exposed to high level of salinity whereas their concentrations in cvs. Luang Anan and Pokkali remained the same as control plants. Accumulation of sucrose in cv. Khao Dawk Mali 105 was suggested to be resulted from the alteration of photosynthate partitioning since the activities of sucrose phosphate synthase were not affected by salinity in this cultivar. On the contrary, salinity stress induced an accumulation of starch in cv. Pokkali. It is suggested that partitioning sugars into starch may involve in salinity tolerance by avoiding metabolic alterations.
19024429	This qualitative study describes how Chinese elders in an American nursing home perceived their food and mealtime experiences. Data collection included 20 meal observations and interviews with 7 residents, 9 family members, and 17 staff members. Field notes and interviews were coded and analyzed using an iterative approach similar to grounded theory. All participant groups described institutional food and meals as individualized, nutritious therapy for medical illnesses. Mealtimes lacked sociability and sharing, and although family members provided Chinese food, they did not eat with residents. Residents generally did not consider the institution's effort to provide an "Asian diet" of hot tea and juk (rice porridge) to be Chinese food. These findings suggest that, for these Chinese elders, the biomedicalized, individualized food service and mealtime caregiving practices stripped food of its meaning as a social, shared mealtime experience with family. Nursing professionals and researchers should understand that provision of culturally competent mealtime care for ethnic (Chinese) long-term care residents involves important food service practices in addition to kinds of food.
19026094	To investigate differences between dietary habits in Glasgow and those in the rest of Scotland and the role that socio-economic factors have in explaining these. Data on age, sex, area deprivation, social class, educational qualifications, economic activity, health board region, postcode sector area and informants' usual intake of foods covering sugary foods, snacks, fibre, starch, meat, fish, spreading fats, dairy products, salt, dietary supplements, fruit and vegetables were available from the 1995, 1998 and 2003 Scottish Health Surveys. Multilevel logistic regression was used to model the relationship between diet and living in Greater Glasgow compared with elsewhere in Scotland, unadjusted and adjusted for age, survey year and socio-economic factors, accounting for the clustering within postcode sector area. Scotland. Subjects comprised 11 075 male and 14 052 female respondents. Lower consumption of high-fibre bread and potatoes/pasta/rice (among men and women), of cakes (men) and of cereals, meat, skimmed/semi-skimmed milk and green vegetables (women) in Glasgow was explained by socio-economic factors, as was higher consumption of non-diet soft drinks among women; lower consumption of ice cream, bread, cereals, meat and green vegetables (men) and high butter and salt consumption (women) in Greater Glasgow were not. Associations between unhealthy eating and deprivation accounted for much of the tendency of people in Glasgow to have poor diets. Policies are needed to encourage improvements in diet in Glasgow and more effort is required to reduce social inequalities in eating habits. Glasgow's poor diet will remain unless problems associated with poverty are tackled.
19026416	An LC-MS/MS method has been developed and validated for the analysis of six monoglutamate folates in rice. Accurate determination of folates in rice seeds required the optimisation of an extraction procedure encompassing homogenisation, heat treatment, tri-enzyme treatment (alpha-amylase, protease and deconjugase), centrifugation and ultrafiltration. The resulting extract was loaded onto a Polaris C 18-A column, followed by gradient elution and detection by tandem mass spectrometry. The validated method is sensitive, reproducible, accurate, and linear between 1 and 400 microg/100g rice (dry weight). The limit of detection and limit of quantification in diluted rice matrix ranged between 0.2 and 1.2 microg/100g and between 0.6 and 4 microg/100g, respectively, depending on the compound. Intra- and inter-day precision varied, respectively, from 1.0 to 9.1% RSD, and from 3.4 to 13.5% RSD, except for one compound (19.1% at low concentrations). The accuracy ranged from 96.9 to 115.4%. Matrix effects were compensated for by use of isotopically labelled internal standards. Most folates in rice extracts were stable when kept for 2 weeks at -20 and -80 degrees C, but degraded after three freeze-thaw cycles or at 4 degrees C, even when stored protected from light. Our validated method offers a sensitive and versatile approach to determine the level of six different monoglutamate folates in a complex matrix as rice.
19027141	A laboratory soil slurry experiment and an outdoor pot experiment were conducted to study effects of ferric iron (Fe(III)) reduction and regeneration on nitrous oxide (N(2)O) and methane (CH(4)) emissions in a rice (Oryza sativa L.) soil. The anoxic slurry experiment showed that enhancing microbial Fe(III) reduction by ferrihydrite amendment (40 mol Fe g(-1)) transitionally stimulated N(2)O production and lowered CH(4) production by 16% during an initial 33-day incubation. Increased regeneration of Fe(III) through a 4-day aeration period in the Fe-amended slurry compared to the control slurry reduced CH(4) emission by 30% in the subsequent 15-day anaerobic incubation. The pot experiment showed that ferrihydrite amendment (63 micromol Fe g(-1)) stimulated N(2)O fluxes in the days following flooding. The Fe amendment suppression on CH(4) emission was obscured in the early season but became significant upon reflooding in the mid- and late-seasons. As a result, seasonal CH(4) emission in Fe-amended pots was 26% lower than the control with a single 2-day drainage and 69% lower with a double 2-day drainage. The reduction in CH(4) emission upon reflooding from the Fe-amended pots was mainly attributed to the increased Fe(III) regeneration during drainage showing a mechanism of Fe(III) regeneration in mitigating CH(4) emission by short-term drainage in flooded soils.
19027203	The critical paths for radionuclides and the critical foods in Asian countries differ from those in Western countries because agricultural products and diets are different. Consequently, safety assessments for Asian countries must consider rice as a critical food. As most rice is produced under flooded conditions, the uptake of radionuclides by rice is affected by soil conditions. In this report, we summarize radionuclide and stable element soil-to-plant transfer factors (TFs) for rice. Field observation results for fallout (137)Cs and stable Cs TFs indicated that while fallout (137)Cs had higher TF than stable Cs over several decades, the GM (geometric mean) values were similar with the GM of TF value for (137)Cs being 3.6 x 10(-3) and that for stable Cs being 2.5 x 10(-3). Although there are some limitations to the use of TF for stable elements under some circumstances, these values can be used to evaluate long-term transfer of long-lived radionuclides in the environment. The compiled data showed that TF values were higher in brown rice than in white rice because distribution patterns for elements were different in the bran and white parts of rice grains.
19027289	In order to reduce the raw material cost of d-lactic acid fermentation, the unpolished rice from aging paddy was used as major nutrient source in this study. The unpolished rice saccharificate, wheat bran powder and yeast extract were employed as carbon source, nitrogen source and growth factors, respectively. Response surface methodology (RSM) was applied to optimize the dosages of medium compositions. As a result, when the fermentation was carried out under the optimal conditions for wheat bran powder (29.10g/l) and yeast extract (2.50g/l), the d-lactic acid yield reached 731.50g/kg unpolished rice with a volumetric production rate of 1.50g/(lh). In comparison with fresh corn and polished rice, the d-lactic acid yield increased by 5.79% and 8.71%, and the raw material cost decreased by 65% and 52%, respectively, when the unpolished rice was used as a major nutrient source. These results might provide a reference for the industrial production of d-lactic acid.
19027402	Unsweetened traditional Japanese tea has long been the main beverage consumed in Japan, with soft drinks only recently forming a part of people's diets. Evidence suggests an association between soft drink intake and poor diet quality among youth in the United States. The association is not yet fully examined in the population with relatively low intake level of soft drinks such as the current Japanese population. To investigate the association of soft drink intake with dietary intake among young Japanese women. A cross-sectional survey assessed dietary intake using a validated, self-administered, diet history questionnaire. Female dietetics students aged 18 to 20 years (n=3,931) in April 2005 in Japan. Multivariate linear regression analyses examined the relationship of soft drink intake with that of foods, beverages, energy, and nutrients. Mean+/-standard deviation soft drink intake was 70.6+/-93.0 g/1,000 kcal. Soft drink intake was significantly associated positively with intake of confection, fat and oil, noodles, 100% vegetable and fruit juices, diet soft drinks, energy, and carbohydrates and negatively with intake of vegetables, fruits, pulses, fish and shellfish, rice, eggs, potatoes, milk, coffee and black tea, traditional Japanese tea, protein, dietary fiber, cholesterol, and most of the micronutrients examined. Not only among Western populations, but also among non-Western populations, soft drink intake may be an important factor to consider in evaluating overall dietary intake and diet quality.
1902790	A cDNA library was screened for plant proliferating-cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) from Catharanthus roseus (periwinkle). A lambda gt11 cDNA library was constructed using poly(A)-rich RNA isolated from the cells in the S phase. A cDNA clone for PCNA was isolated by using a rice genomic clone, pCJ-1, which contains PCNA-related gene sequences. The cDNA contains an open reading frame of 804 nucleotides, encoding a protein of 268 amino acids with a molecular mass of 29,765 Da. When conservative substitutions were included, a high degree of similarity (about 85%) was observed between the predicted amino acid sequence of periwinkle PCNA and that of human PCNA. Expression of mRNA for periwinkle PCNA was undetectable or very weak in quiescent cells, such as phosphate-starved cells, auxin-starved cells and cells in the stationary phase. In the synchronous progression of the cell cycle induced by the addition of phosphate or auxin, the active accumulation of periwinkle PCNA mRNA was observed preferentially in the S phase. When an inhibitor of DNA synthesis, aphidicolin, was added to the cells at the G1 phase, an increase in the level of PCNA mRNA was observed. The partial inhibition of protein synthesis at the G1 phase by a protein inhibitor, anisomycin, caused the arrest of cells in the G1 phase. No increase of the level of periwinkle PCNA mRNA was observed in cells arrested at the G1 phase by the inhibition of protein synthesis. These results indicate that the induction of mRNA for periwinkle PCNA occurred independently of the initiation of DNA replication, but that synthesis of certain proteins at the G1 phase was required for the induction of periwinkle PCNA mRNA at the S phase.
19027973	Bacillus cereus is a gram-positive, endospore forming pathogenic bacterium that is ubiquitous in the environment and is frequently associated with emetic and diarrheal types of foodborne illness. In this study, 178 samples of raw rice from retail food stores were analyzed for the presence of B. cereus spores. Spores of Bacillus species were found in 94 (52.8%) of the rice samples with an average concentration of 32.6 CFU/g (3.6-460 CFU/g for B. cereus and 3.6-23 CFU/g for Bacillus thuringiensis). Eighty three of the 94 isolates were identified as B. cereus and 11 were identified as B. thuringiensis. Bacillus mycoides (240 CFU/g) was the predominant isolate in one rice sample. Using PCR the isolates were checked for the presence of the cereulide synthetase gene (ces), the hblA and hblD genes of the hemolysin BL (HBL) complex and the nheA and nheB genes of the nonhemolytic (NHE) enterotoxin complex. The ces gene was not identified in any of the isolates. By contrast 47 (56.6%) B. cereus isolates possessed the hblA and hblD genes and 74 (89.1%) isolates possessed the nheA and nheB genes. As determined by commercial assay kits, forty four (53.0%) of the 83 B. cereus isolates produced both NHE and HBL enterotoxins whereas 78 (93.9%) were positive for either one or the other. Protein toxin crystals were detected visually in the 11 B. thuringiensis isolates. PCR analysis revealed 10 (90.9%) of those 11 isolates carried the cry gene. All the B. thuringiensis isolates were positive for NHE and HBL enterotoxins. Our results suggest that foodborne illness in the U.S. due to B. cereus with rice as the vehicle would be most likely associated with the diarrheal-type syndrome.
19028301	Twelve hundred rice samples consisting of paddy (675) and milled rice (525) were collected from 20 states across India. These samples were assessed for Aspergillus spp. infection on selective medium and aflatoxin B(1) (AFB1) by indirect competitive ELISA. In this investigation, Aspergillus flavus contamination dominated in all the seed samples. The other major contaminants were Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus ochraceus and Aspergillus parasiticus. Out of 1200 rice samples, 67.8% showed AFB1 ranging from 0.1 to 308.0 microg/kg. All the paddy samples from Chattishgarh, Meghalaya and Tamil Nadu showed AFB1 contamination. Milled rice grains from different states showed below the permissible levels of AFB1 (average 0.5-3.5 microg/kg). Eighty-two percent of samples from open storage that were exposed to rain showed AFB1 contamination followed by one-year-old seed. Out of 1200 samples, 2% showed AFB1 contamination above the permissible limits (>30 microg/kg). This is the first comprehensive report of aflatoxin contamination in rice across 20 states in India.
19028456	Two full-length genes encoding different acetylcholinesterases (AChEs), designated as Ch-ace1 and Ch-ace2, were cloned from strains of the rice stem borer (Chilo suppressalis) susceptible and resistant to the organophosphate insecticide triazophos. Sequence analysis found an amino acid mutation A314S in Ch-ace1 (corresponding to A201 in Torpedo californica AChE) that was consistently associated with the occurrence of resistance. This mutation removed an MspA1 I restriction site from the wild type allele. An assay based on restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis was developed to diagnose A314S genotypes in field populations. Results showed a strong correlation between frequencies of the mutation and phenotypic levels of resistance to triazophos. The assay offers a prospect for rapid monitoring of resistance and assisting with the appropriate choice of insecticide for combating damage caused by C. suppressalis.
19028802	TILLING, for Targeting Induced Local Lesions in Genomes, is a reverse genetics strategy that identifies mutations in specific genes of interest in chemically mutagenized populations. First described in 2000 for mutation detection in Arabidopsis, TILLING is now used in a wide range of plants including soybean, rice, barley and maize as well as for animal model systems, including Arabidopsis, Drosophila, Caenorhabditis elegans, rat, medaka and zebrafish and for the discovery of naturally occurring polymorphisms in humans. This review summarizes current TILLING methodologies as they have been applied to the zebrafish, ongoing TILLING projects and resources in the zebrafish community, and the future of zebrafish TILLING.
19028884	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight in rice, contains a regulator that is encoded in the genome, designated OryR, which belongs to the N-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL)-dependent quorum-sensing LuxR subfamily of proteins. However, we previously reported that X. oryzae pv. oryzae does not make AHLs and does not possess a LuxI-family AHL synthase and that the OryR protein is solubilized by a compound present in rice. In this study we obtained further evidence that OryR interacts with a rice signal molecule (RSM) and that the OryR concentration increases when rice is infected with X. oryzae pv. oryzae. We also describe three OryR target promoters which are regulated differently: (i) the neighboring proline iminopeptidase (pip) virulence gene, which is positively regulated by OryR in the presence of the RSM; (ii) the oryR promoter, which is negatively autoregulated independent of the RSM; and (iii) the 1,4-beta-cellobiosidase cbsA gene, which is positively regulated by OryR independent of the RSM. We also found that the RSM for OryR is small, is not related to AHLs, and is not able to activate the broad-range AHL biosensor Agrobacterium tumefaciens NT1(pZLQR). Furthermore, OryR does not regulate production of the quorum-sensing diffusible signal factor present in the genus Xanthomonas. Therefore, OryR has unique features and is an important regulator involved in interkingdom communication between the host and the pathogen.
19029297	Arsenite [As(III)] is highly toxic to organisms, including plants. Very recently, transporters in rice responsible for As(III) transport have been described (Ma, J. F., Yamaji, N., Mitani, N., Xu, X. Y., Su, Y. H., McGrath, S. P., and Zhao, F. J. (2008) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 105, 9931-9935), but little is known about As(III) tolerance. In this study, three independent As(III)-tolerant mutants were isolated from ethyl methanesulfonate-mutagenized M2 seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana. All three mutants carried independent mutations in Nodulin 26-like intrinsic protein 1;1 (NIP1;1), a homolog of an aquaporin. Two independent transgenic lines carrying T-DNA in NIP1;1 were highly tolerant to As(III), establishing that NIP1;1 is the causal gene of As(III) tolerance. Because an aquaglyceroporin is able to transport As(III), we measured As(III) transport activity. When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, NIP1;1 was capable of transporting As(III). As content in the mutant plants was 30% lower than in wild-type plants. Promoter beta-glucuronidase and real-time PCR analysis showed that NIP1;1 is highly expressed in roots, and GFP-NIP1;1 is localized to the plasma membrane. These data show that NIP1;1 is involved in As(III) uptake into roots and that disruption of NIP1;1 function confers As(III) tolerance to plants. NIP1;2 and NIP5;1, closely related homologs of NIP1;1, were also permeable to As(III). Although the disruption of these genes reduced the As content in plants, As(III) tolerance was not observed in nip1;2 and nip5;1 mutants. This indicates that As(III) tolerance cannot be simply explained by decreased As contents in plants.
19029538	Although the proliferation of LTR retrotransposons can cause major genomic modification and reorganization, the evolutionary dynamics that affect their frequency in host genomes are poorly understood. We analyzed patterns of genetic variation among LTR retrotransposons from Oryza sativa to investigate the type of selective forces that potentially limit their amplification and subsequent population of a nuclear genome. We performed both intra- and interfamily analyses of patterns of molecular sequence variation across multiple LTR retrotransposon genes. This analysis involved more than 1000 LTR retrotransposon sequences from 14 separate families that varied in both their insertion dates and full-length copy numbers. We uncovered evidence of strong purifying selection across all gene regions, but also indications that rare episodes of positive selection and adaptation to the host genome occur. Furthermore, our results indicate that LTR retrotransposons exhibit different but predictable patterns of sequence variation depending on their date of transposition, suggesting that LTR retrotransposons, regardless of superfamily and family classifications, show similar "life-histories."
19029751	As Hmong adapt to life in Fresno, California, their dietary and lifestyle patterns are examined. Data on tobacco and alcohol use, dietary practices, and socio-demographic variables were collected from a convenience sample, stratified by age and sex. The 248 participants were interviewed. Descriptive analyses reveal that more than 63% of Hmong adults were either overweight or obese. Only 57% could speak English fluently, and 71% were economically impoverished. Hmong do not consume tobacco and alcoholic products excessively. Rice, chicken, beef, and eggs were the most frequently identified food items. Fruits and vegetables were also identified. Low alcohol and tobacco consumption may offer Hmong some protection against certain diseases. However, low socioeconomic status and rapid urbanization may have resulted in a shift from a high-energy expenditure lifestyle and high fiber diets to a sedentary lifestyle with high saturated fat food diets, which may be detrimental to the health of many Hmong.
19030963	Rice body formation is generally a rare disorder related to rheumatoid arthritis. It can also be observed in cases of systemic lupus erythematosus, seronegative arthritis, infectious arthritis (tuberculosis, atypical mycobacterial infection), nonspecific arthritis, and osteoarthritis. It is generally located within joints or bursae. Multiple rice bodies of tendon sheaths are rarely encountered. Rice body formation may also be encountered without underlying systemic disorders. We present a case of multiple rice body formation that accompanied chronic nonspecific tenosynovitis of the flexor tendons of the wrist.
19031876	Paddy rice is a global staple food which in some circumstances can contain high levels of the toxic element arsenic (As). In order to elucidate factors influencing As dissolution in the soil solution during paddy rice cultivation, rice (Oryza sativa L. "Selenio") was cultivated to maturity in six paddy soils in the greenhouse in 2005 and 2006. Concentrations of Mn, Fe, As, P, and silicic acid in soil solution and As concentrations in rice straw and polished rice grain were determined. There was a close relationship between Fe and As concentrations in the soil solution, suggesting that the major part of dissolved As originated from reduced iron-(hydr)oxide. However, in addition to the factors causing As dissolution in the soil, other factors influenced the uptake of As by rice. The inhibitory effect of indigenous silicic acid in the soil solution on As uptake was clearly shown. This implied that soils with high plant available Si contents resulted in low plant As contents and that Si application to soils may decrease the As content of rice.
19033192	Sterility is common in hybrids between divergent populations, such as the indica and japonica subspecies of Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa). Although multiple loci for plant hybrid sterility have been identified, it remains unknown how alleles of the loci interact at the molecular level. Here we show that a locus for indica-japonica hybrid male sterility, Sa, comprises two adjacent genes, SaM and SaF, encoding a small ubiquitin-like modifier E3 ligase-like protein and an F-box protein, respectively. Most indica cultivars contain a haplotype SaM(+)SaF(+), whereas all japonica cultivars have SaM(-)SaF(-) that diverged by nucleotide variations in wild rice. Male semi-sterility in this heterozygous complex locus is caused by abortion of pollen carrying SaM(-). This allele-specific gamete elimination results from a selective interaction of SaF(+) with SaM(-), a truncated protein, but not with SaM(+) because of the presence of an inhibitory domain, although SaM(+) is required for this male sterility. Lack of any one of the three alleles in recombinant plants does not produce male sterility. We propose a two-gene/three-component interaction model for this hybrid male sterility system. The findings have implications for overcoming male sterility in inter-subspecific hybrid rice breeding.
19033526	Asian rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars originated from wild rice and can be divided into two subspecies by several criteria, one of which is the phenol reaction (PHR) phenotype. Grains of indica cultivars turn brown in a phenol solution that accelerates a similar process that occurs during prolonged storage. By contrast, the grains of japonica do not discolor. This distinction may reflect the divergent domestication of these two subspecies. The PHR is controlled by a single gene, Phr1; here, we report the cloning of Phr1, which encodes a polyphenol oxidase. The Phr1 gene is indeed responsible for the PHR phenotype, as transformation with a functional Phr1 can complement a PHR negative cultivar. Phr1 is defective in all japonica lines but functional in nearly all indica and wild strains. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the defects in Phr1 arose independently three times. The multiple recent origins and rapid spread of phr1 in japonica suggest the action of positive selection, which is further supported by several population genetic tests. This case may hence represent an example of artificial selection driving the differentiation among domesticated varieties.
19033527	Knowledge about signaling in arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbioses is currently restricted to the common symbiosis (SYM) signaling pathway discovered in legumes. This pathway includes calcium as a second messenger and regulates both AM and rhizobial symbioses. Both monocotyledons and dicotyledons form symbiotic associations with AM fungi, and although they differ markedly in the organization of their root systems, the morphology of colonization is similar. To identify and dissect AM-specific signaling in rice (Oryza sativa), we developed molecular phenotyping tools based on gene expression patterns that monitor various steps of AM colonization. These tools were used to distinguish common SYM-dependent and -independent signaling by examining rice mutants of selected putative legume signaling orthologs predicted to be perturbed both upstream (CASTOR and POLLUX) and downstream (CCAMK and CYCLOPS) of the central, calcium-spiking signal. All four mutants displayed impaired AM interactions and altered AM-specific gene expression patterns, therefore demonstrating functional conservation of SYM signaling between distant plant species. In addition, differential gene expression patterns in the mutants provided evidence for AM-specific but SYM-independent signaling in rice and furthermore for unexpected deviations from the SYM pathway downstream of calcium spiking.
19034407	A novel cytoplasmic male-sterility (CMS) radish (Raphanus sativus L.) and its associated mitotype (DCGMS) were previously identified; however, no mtDNA fragments flanking the atp6 gene were found in the DCGMS mitotype. Unlike three other mitotypes in this study, a unique mtDNA organization, atp6-nad3-rps12, was found to be the major mtDNA structure associated with this mitotype. This organization may have arisen from short repeat sequence-mediated recombination events. The short repeat clusters involved in the mtDNA rearrangement around the atp6 gene also exist as repetitive sequences in the complete mitochondrial genomes of other members of the Brassicaceae family, including rapeseed and Arabidopsis. These sequences do not exist as repetitive elements in the mtDNA of tobacco, sugar beet, or rice. While studying the regions flanking atp6, we identified a truncated atp6 mtDNA fragment which consists of the 5' part of the atp6 gene linked to an unidentified sequence. This mtDNA structure was present in all mitotypes; however, a single nucleotide insertion mutation leading to a frame-shift was identified only in the DCGMS mitotype. Although this truncated atp6 organization was transcribed, there was no significantly different expression between male-sterile and fertile segregating individuals from the BC(1)F(1) population originating from a cross between male-sterile and restorer parents. Comprehensive survey of the single base-pair insertion showed that it was maternally inherited and unique to the DCGMS mitotype. Therefore, this single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the coding sequence of the mtDNA will be a useful molecular marker for the detection of the DCGMS mitotype.
19034518	An ecological study was conducted at three study sites in Mwea Rice Scheme, Kenya to identify the diverse aquatic habitats in which culicine mosquitoes thrived and to explore the best strategies for mosquito control in the area. During the 11-month study period, ten habitat categories and 11 culicine species mainly dominated by Culex quinquefasciatus (72.0%) and Culex annulioris (17.9%) were identified from pupae and late instars larval samples. Two of the 11 culicine species, Ficalbia (Mimomyia) plumosa and Uranotaenia spp., have not been reported previously in the study area. Rurumi had more habitat types than either of the other study sites but the least number of mosquito species. In contrast, Karima had the least number of habitat types but significantly higher density of early instars than the other study sites. The relative abundance of late instars and pupae did not vary significantly among study sites. The contribution of different habitat types to larval production varied markedly between seasons and among study sites. Paddies and canals were perennial contributors of culicine mosquito larvae while the other habitat types were important mainly during the wet season. Some habitat types such as ditches, seeps, marshes, and fishpond were absent in some study sites but of great significance in other study sites. C. quinquefasciatus was positively associated with turbidity at all study sites and also negatively associated with emergent vegetation and distance to the nearest homestead in Karima, emergent vegetation in Kiuria, and other aquatic invertebrates in Rurumi. C. annulioris was positively associated with emergent vegetation at all study sites and also with depth in Kiuria. These findings indicate that besides rice fields and associated habitats, a diversity of other aquatic habitats contribute to culicine adult mosquito production in the study area and that environmental factors that determine the occurrence of a particular mosquito species may vary significantly even among areas of similar land use. This information is critical when designing and implementing mosquito larval control programs.
19034660	Turmeric is widely used in Indian cuisine. The main constituents of turmeric are curcumin and its analogues, which are well-known antioxidant compounds. In the present study, we hypothesized that turmeric in curry might increase bowel motility and activate hydrogen-producing bacterial flora in the colon, thereby increasing the concentration of breath hydrogen. Eight healthy subjects fasted for 12 h and ingested curry and rice with or without turmeric (turmeric knockout curry). Breath-hydrogen concentrations were analyzed every 15 min for 6 h by gas chromatography with a semiconductor detector. Curry with turmeric significantly increased the area under the curve of breath hydrogen and shortened small-bowel transit time, compared with curry not containing turmeric. These results suggested that dietary turmeric activated bowel motility and carbohydrate colonic fermentation.
1903512	We have studied the aflatoxin producing capacity of 41 Aspergillus flavus strains isolated from the mycoflora present of natural media (wheat, rice and mixed feed) synthetic medium (Aflatoxin Producing Ability Medium) and semisynthetic media (Coconut Agar Medium and Glucose Yeast Extract Agar) were compared. Aflatoxins were analysed on days 4 and 8 post-inoculation under an incubation temperature of 28 degrees C. A total of 30 strains (75.7%) were producers on natural media as detected by Thin Layer Chromatography: 23 strains on wheat, 27 on rice and 12 on mixed feed. The results by qualitative fluorescence tests on synthetic and semisynthetic media were: 3 strains positive on Coconut Agar Medium (CAM) 1 on Glucose Yeast Extract Agar (GY + Agar) and none on Aflatoxin Producing Ability Medium (APA).
19035670	An increased necessity for energy independence and heightened concern about the effects of rising carbon dioxide levels have intensified the search for renewable fuels that could reduce our current consumption of petrol and diesel. One such fuel is biodiesel, which consists of the methyl esters of fatty acids. Methyl butanoate (MB) contains the essential chemical structure of the long-chain fatty acids and a shorter, but similar, alkyl chain. This paper reports on a detailed kinetic mechanism for MB that is assembled using theoretical approaches. Thirteen pathways that include fuel decomposition, isomerization, and propagation steps were computed using ab initio calculations [J. Org. Chem. 2008, 73, 94]. Rate constants from first principles for important reactions in CO(2) formation, namely CH(3)OCO=CH(3) + CO(2) (R1) and CH(3)OCO=CH(3)O + CO (R2) reactions, are computed at high levels of theory and implemented in the mechanism. Using the G3B3 potential energy surface together with the B3LYP/6-31G(d) gradient, Hessian and geometries, the rate constants for reactions R1 and R2 are calculated using the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory with corrections from treatments for tunneling, hindered rotation, and variational effects. The calculated rate constants of reaction R1 differ from the data present in the literature by at most 20%, while those of reaction R2 are about a factor of 4 lower than the available values. The new kinetic model derived from ab initio simulations is combined with the kinetic mechanism presented by Fisher et al. [Proc. Combust. Inst. 2000, 28, 1579] together with the addition of the newly found six-centered unimolecular elimination reaction that yields ethylene and methyl acetate, MB = C(2)H(4) + CH(3)COOCH(3). This latter pathway requires the inclusion of the CH(3)COOCH(3) decomposition model suggested by Westbrook et al. [Proc. Combust. Inst. 2008, accepted]. The newly composed kinetic mechanism for MB is used to study the CO(2) formation during the pyrolysis of MB as well as to investigate the autoignition of MB in a shock tube reactor at different temperatures and pressures. The computed results agree very well with experimental data present in the literature. Sensitivity and flux (rate-of-production) analyses are carried out for the CO(2) formation with the new MB mechanism, together with available reaction mechanisms, to assess the importance of various kinetic pathways for each regime. With the new mechanism, the flux analyses for the formation of C(2)H species, one of the most important species for ignition delay time, are also presented at different conditions. In addition to giving a better chemical insight of the pyrolysis/oxidation of MB, the results suggest ways to improve the mechanism's capability to predict CO(2) formation and ignition delay times in pyrolysis and oxidation conditions.
19036133	The Oryza sativa L. indica subspecies is the most widely cultivated rice. During the last few years, we have collected over 20,000 putative full-length cDNAs and over 40,000 ESTs isolated from various cDNA libraries of two indica varieties Guangluai 4 and Minghui 63. A database of the rice indica cDNAs was therefore built to provide a comprehensive web data source for searching and retrieving the indica cDNA clones. Rice Indica cDNA Database (RICD) is an online MySQL-PHP driven database with a user-friendly web interface. It allows investigators to query the cDNA clones by keyword, genome position, nucleotide or protein sequence, and putative function. It also provides a series of information, including sequences, protein domain annotations, similarity search results, SNPs and InDels information, and hyperlinks to gene annotation in both The Rice Annotation Project Database (RAP-DB) and The TIGR Rice Genome Annotation Resource, expression atlas in RiceGE and variation report in Gramene of each cDNA. The online rice indica cDNA database provides cDNA resource with comprehensive information to researchers for functional analysis of indica subspecies and for comparative genomics. The RICD database is available through our website http://www.ncgr.ac.cn/ricd.
19036138	The elucidation of transcriptional regulation in plant genes is important area of research for plant scientists, following the mapping of various plant genomes, such as A. thaliana, O. sativa and Z. mays. A variety of bioinformatic servers or databases of plant promoters have been established, although most have been focused only on annotating transcription factor binding sites in a single gene and have neglected some important regulatory elements (tandem repeats and CpG/CpNpG islands) in promoter regions. Additionally, the combinatorial interaction of transcription factors (TFs) is important in regulating the gene group that is associated with the same expression pattern. Therefore, a tool for detecting the co-regulation of transcription factors in a group of gene promoters is required. This study develops a database-assisted system, PlantPAN (Plant Promoter Analysis Navigator), for recognizing combinatorial cis-regulatory elements with a distance constraint in sets of plant genes. The system collects the plant transcription factor binding profiles from PLACE, TRANSFAC (public release 7.0), AGRIS, and JASPER databases and allows users to input a group of gene IDs or promoter sequences, enabling the co-occurrence of combinatorial transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) within a defined distance (20 bp to 200 bp) to be identified. Furthermore, the new resource enables other regulatory features in a plant promoter, such as CpG/CpNpG islands and tandem repeats, to be displayed. The regulatory elements in the conserved regions of the promoters across homologous genes are detected and presented. In addition to providing a user-friendly input/output interface, PlantPAN has numerous advantages in the analysis of a plant promoter. Several case studies have established the effectiveness of PlantPAN. This novel analytical resource is now freely available at http://PlantPAN.mbc.nctu.edu.tw.
19036217	Genetically modified insect-resistant rice lines containing the cry1Ac gene from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) or the CpTI (cowpea trypsin inhibitor) gene developed for the management of lepidopterous pests are highly resistant to the major target pests, Chilo suppressalis (Walker), Cnaphalocrocis medinalis (Guenée), and Scirpophaga incertulas (Walker), in the main rice-growing areas of China. However, the effects of these transgenic lines on Sesamia inferens (Walker), an important lepidopterous rice pest, are currently unknown. Because different insect species have varying susceptibility to Bt insecticidal proteins that may affect population dynamics, research into the effects of these transgenic rice lines on the population dynamics of S. inferens was conducted in Fuzhou, southern China, in 2005 and 2006. The results of laboratory, field cage, and field plot experiments show that S. inferens has comparatively high susceptibility to the transgenic line during the early growing season, with significant differences observed in larval density and infestation levels between transgenic and control lines. Because of a decrease in Cry1Ac levels in the plant as it ages, the transgenic line provided only a low potential for population suppression late in the growing season. There is a correlation between the changing expression of Cry1Ac and the impact of transgenic rice on the population dynamics of S. inferens during the season. These results indicate that S. inferens may become a major pest in fields of prospective commercially released transgenic rice, and more attention should be paid to developing an effective alternative management strategy.
19036785	The alpha subunit of plant heterotrimeric G proteins (Galpha) plays pivotal roles in multiple aspects of development and responses to plant hormones. Recently, several lines of evidence have shown that Galpha participates in brassinosteroid (BR) responses in Arabidopsis and rice plants. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of the roles of the rice Galpha in the responses to BR using a defective mutant of the Galpha gene, T65d1. Decreased sensitivity to 24-epi-brassinolide (24-epiBL) in the T65d1 mutant was observed in many processes examined, e.g. in the inhibition of root growth and the promotion of coleoptile elongation. The T65d1 mutant also showed similar phenotypes to those of BR-deficient mutants, such as the specifically shortened second internode and the constitutive photomorphogenic growth phenotype under dark conditions. However, a negative feedback effect by 24-epiBL on the expression of BR biosynthetic genes was observed in the T65d1 mutant, and the levels of BR intermediates did not fluctuate in this mutant. To determine the epistatic relationship between the T65d1 mutant and d61-7, a weak allele of a rice BR receptor mutant, the two mutants were crossed. The T65d1/d61-7 double mutant showed no epistasis in the elongation inhibition of the internodes, the internode elongation pattern, the leaf angle and the morphological abnormality of leaf, except for the vertical length of seed and the seed weight. Our results suggest that the rice Galpha affects the BR signaling cascade but the Galpha may not be a signaling molecule in BRI1-meditated perception/transduction.
19036791	OryGenesDB (http://orygenesdb.cirad.fr/index.html) is a database developed for rice reverse genetics. OryGenesDB contains FSTs (flanking sequence tags) of various mutagens and functional genomics data, collected from both international insertion collections and the literature. The current release of OryGenesDB contains 171,000 FSTs, and annotations divided among 10 specific categories, totaling 78 annotation layers. Several additional tools have been added to the main interface; these tools enable the user to retrieve FSTs and design probes to analyze insertion lines. The major innovation of OryGenesDB 2008, besides updating the data and tools, is a new tool, Orylink, which was developed to speed up rice functional genomics by taking advantage of the resources developed in two related databases, Oryza Tag Line and GreenPhylDB. Orylink was designed to field complex queries across these three databases and store both the queries and their results in an intuitive manner. Orylink offers a simple and powerful virtual workbench for functional genomics. Alternatively, the Web services developed for Orylink can be used independently of its Web interface, increasing the interoperability between these different bioinformatics applications.
19036832	The apoplast of plant cells, which carries out multiple functions in plant metabolism and signaling, is not only a barrier but also the linker between the environment and the protoplast. To investigate the role of apoplastic proteins in the salt stress response, 10-d-old rice (Oryza sativa) plants were treated with 200 mM NaCl for 1, 3, or 6 h, and the soluble apoplast proteins were extracted for differential analysis compared with untreated controls using two-dimensional electrophoresis. Ten protein spots that increased or decreased significantly in abundance were identified by mass spectrometry. These proteins included some well-known biotic and abiotic stress-related proteins. Among them, an apoplastic protein, with extracellular domain-like cysteine-rich motifs (DUF26), O. sativa root meander curling (OsRMC), has shown drastically increased abundance in response to salt stress during the initial phase. OsRMC RNA interference transgenic rice has been generated to assess the function of OsRMC in the salt stress response. The results show that knocking down the expression level of OsRMC in transgenic rice led to insensitive seed germination, enhanced growth inhibition, and improved salt stress tolerance to NaCl than in untransgenic plants. These results indicate that plant apoplastic proteins may have important roles in the plant salt stress response.
19037316	Gibberellins (GAs) are phytohormones essential for many developmental processes in plants. A nuclear GA receptor, GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1), has a primary structure similar to that of the hormone-sensitive lipases (HSLs). Here we analyse the crystal structure of Oryza sativa GID1 (OsGID1) bound with GA(4) and GA(3) at 1.9 A resolution. The overall structure of both complexes shows an alpha/beta-hydrolase fold similar to that of HSLs except for an amino-terminal lid. The GA-binding pocket corresponds to the substrate-binding site of HSLs. On the basis of the OsGID1 structure, we mutagenized important residues for GA binding and examined their binding activities. Almost all of them showed very little or no activity, confirming that the residues revealed by structural analysis are important for GA binding. The replacement of Ile 133 with Leu or Val-residues corresponding to those of the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii GID1s-caused an increase in the binding affinity for GA(34), a 2beta-hydroxylated GA(4). These observations indicate that GID1 originated from HSL and was further modified to have higher affinity and more strict selectivity for bioactive GAs by adapting the amino acids involved in GA binding in the course of plant evolution.
19038016	Pearl millet [Pennisetum glaucum (L.) R. Br.] is a staple food and fodder crop of marginal agricultural lands of sub-Saharan Africa and the Indian subcontinent. It is also a summer forage crop in the southern USA, Australia and Latin America, and is the preferred mulch in Brazilian no-till soybean production systems. Use of molecular marker technology for pearl millet genetic improvement has been limited. Progress is hampered by insufficient numbers of PCR-compatible co-dominant markers that can be used readily in applied breeding programmes. Therefore, we sought to develop additional SSR markers for the pearl millet research community. A set of new pearl millet SSR markers were developed using available sequence information from 3520 expressed sequence tags (ESTs). After clustering, unigene sequences (2175 singlets and 317 contigs) were searched for the presence of SSRs. We detected 164 sequences containing SSRs (at least 14 bases in length), with a density of one per 1.75 kb of EST sequence. Di-nucleotide repeats were the most abundant followed by tri-nucleotide repeats. Ninety primer pairs were designed and tested for their ability to detect polymorphism across a panel of 11 pairs of pearl millet mapping population parental lines. Clear amplification products were obtained for 58 primer pairs. Of these, 15 were monomorphic across the panel. A subset of 21 polymorphic EST-SSRs and 6 recently developed genomic SSR markers were mapped using existing mapping populations. Linkage map positions of these EST-SSR were compared by homology search with mapped rice genomic sequences on the basis of pearl millet-rice synteny. Most new EST-SSR markers mapped to distal regions of linkage groups, often to previous gaps in these linkage maps. These new EST-SSRs are now are used by ICRISAT in pearl millet diversity assessment and marker-aided breeding programs. This study has demonstrated the potential of EST-derived SSR primer pairs in pearl millet. As reported for other crops, EST-derived SSRs provide a cost-saving marker development option in pearl millet. Resources developed in this study have added a sizeable number of useful SSRs to the existing repertoire of circa 100 genomic SSRs that were previously available to pearl millet researchers.
19038031	Long Terminal Repeats retrotransposons (LTR elements) are ubiquitous Eukaryotic transposable elements (TEs). They are considered to be one of the major forces underlying plant genome evolution. Because of relatively high evolutionary speed, active transposition of LTR elements in the host genomes provides rich information on their short-term history. As more and more genomes, especially those of closely related organisms, have been sequenced, it is possible to perform global comparative study of their LTR retrotransposons to reveal events in the history. The present research is designed to investigate important evolutionary events in the origin of Asian cultivated rice through the comparison of LTR elements. We have developed LTR_INSERT, a new method for LTR elements discovery in two closely related genomes. Our method has a distinctive feature that it is capable of judging whether an insertion occurs prior or posterior to the divergence of genomes. LTR_INSERT identifies 993 full-length LTR elements, annotates 15916 copies related with them, and discovers at least 16 novel LTR families in the whole-genome comparative map of two cultivated rice subspecies. From the full-length LTR elements, we estimate that a significant proportion of the rice genome has experienced inter-subspecies nonreciprocal recombination (ISNR) in as recent as 53,000 years. Large-scale samplings further support that more than 15% of the rice genome has been involved in such recombination. In addition, LTR elements confirm that the genome of O. sativa ssp. indica and that of japonica diverged about 600,000 years ago. A new LTR retrotransposon identification method integrating both comparative genomics and ab initio algorithm is introduced and applied to Asian cultivated rice genomes. At whole-genome level, this work confirms that recent ISNR is an important factor that molds modern cultivated rice genome.
19038088
19038476	In the present work, we present a proteomic analysis of weakly bound cell wall proteins (CWPs) in rice. CWPs from rice calli were extracted with mannitol/CaCl(2), followed by back extraction with water-saturated phenol. The isolated CWPs were evaluated for contamination by cytosolic proteins by measuring the enzymatic activity of an intracellular marker (glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase). This revealed the presence of low levels of intracellular proteins and a significant enrichment of CWPs, as compared to the total extract. Protein samples were digested in gels with trypsin and analyzed using the multidimensional protein identification technology (MudPIT). A total of 292 proteins were identified, which included numerous classical CWPs and antioxidant proteins. Bioinformatics analysis showed that 72.6% of these proteins possessed a signal peptide, and a total of 198 proteins were determined to be CWPs in rice. Functional classification divided the extracellular proteins into different groups, including glycosyl hydrolases (23%), antioxidant proteins (12%), cell wall structure-related proteins (6%), metabolic pathways (9%), protein modifications (4%), defense (4%), and protease inhibitors (3%). Furthermore, comparative analysis of our identified rice CWPs with known Arabidopsis CWPs revealed 25 novel rice-specific CWPs. The study described here is an unprecedented large-scale analysis of CWPs in rice.
19039423	Determining Leptospira spp . antibody seroprevalence in an apparently healthy population and in groups at risk plus their associated factors in the town of Villavicencio in the Meta department of Colombia A cross-sectional epidemiological model was used (subjects being selected by convenience sampling). Blood-samples were obtained by cubital puncture from (n: 503) people, consisting of 230 first semester students from different programmes at the Universidad de los Llanos and 273 people corresponding to 8 groups at risk. Information regarding risk factor was obtained from interviewing the 503 people. A commercial indirect ELISA kit (Pambio) was used for determining IgM antibodies. Seroprevalence was 5,2 % in the low risk group. There was 19 % seroprevalence for groups at risk, 7 % for the group of people working in slaughterhouses, 17 % for vets and small animal clinic assistants, 17 % for students in their last year of Veterinary Medicine and Zootechnia, 21 % for people milking cows on dual-purpose farms, 23 % for people working in rice-fields, 35 % for people working on pig-farms and 48 % for those working on fish-farms. Three factors were found to be associated: rural social level, having a pet dog and coming into contact with rodents in the workplace. A high seroprevalence for Leptospira spp was found in the groups at risk, people working on pig-farms and fish-farms being those most affected. There was a 1,86 relative risk in both groups indicated as having a greater risk of contagion amongst the population suffering occupational exposure.
19039529	Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) has often been associated with abnormal mitochondrial open reading frames (ORF), orfH79 is a mitochondria chimeric gene being responsible for the CMS trait in Honglian (HL) rice. Weakly expressed ORFH79 strongly inhibits the growth of yeast cells. In addition, the content of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the transformants that expressed ORFH79 was increased by 31%, and ATP was decreased by 41% compared with the control. These results showed ORFH79 peptide is toxic to yeast cells.
19039666	Wall-associated protein kinases (WAKs) are a new group of receptor-like kinases (RLK) recently identified in Arabidopsis. A cDNA encoding a novel WAK was isolated from rice and was named OsWAK1 (Oryza sativa WAK). The deduced amino acid sequence of OsWAK1 showed 27.6% identity to WAK2 from Arabidopsis. OsWAK1 not only has the ability of autophosphorylation but also can phosphorylate OsRFP1, a putative transcription regulator recently identified in rice. OsRFP1 strongly interacts with the kinase domain of OsWAK1. This demonstrated that OsWAK1 is a functional protein kinase. A fusion protein of OsWAK1 with GFP was found to be localized on the cell surface. Plasmolysis experiments further revealed OsWAK1 is associated with the cell wall. Northern blotting analysis showed that infection of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae significantly induced the OsWAK1 transcripts, and the accumulation of OsWAK1 mRNA occurred earlier and was more abundant in rice leaves infected with an incompatible race than with a compatible race of the blast fungus. OsWAK1 was also induced after treatment by mechanical wounding, SA and MeJA, but not by ABA. These results imply that OsWAK1 is a novel gene involved in plant defense. Furthermore, six transgenic rice lines with constitutive expression of OsWAK1 became resistant to the compatible race. However, OsWAK1 expression was undetectable in leaves, stems and flowers but very weak in roots under normal growth conditions. This provides functional evidence that induction of OsWAK1 as a novel RLK plays important roles in plant disease resistance.
19039807	Liquid chromatography in conjunction with tandem mass spectrometry was used to directly quantify of 47 pesticide residues from cooked wheat flour and polished rice, which are the most widely consumed cereals in the Republic of Korea. The sample clean-up was carried out according to the method established by the Korea Food and Drug Administration. The mobile phase for liquid chromatography separation consisted of water and 5 mm methanolic ammonium formate. Tandem mass spectroscopy experiments were performed in electrospray ionization positive mode and the multiple reaction monitoring mode. The matrix effects estimated for the 47 pesticides had a mean value of 99% and ranged from 45 to 147%. High recoveries (70-140%) and relative standard deviations (< or = 20%) were achieved for most of the pesticides tested. The method used in this study allowed for rapid quantification and identification of low levels of pesticides in cooked wheat flour and polished rice samples. Of the screened pesticide residues, only tricyclazole and fenobucarb were found in polished rice samples. However, no samples contained residues above the MRL established by the Korea Food and Drug Administration.
19042085	Paddy soil samples taken from different sites in an old primitive electronic-waste (e-waste) processing region were examined for eco-toxicity and metal contamination. Using the environmental quality standard for soils (China, Grade II) as reference, soil samples of two sites were weakly contaminated with trace metal, but site G was heavily contaminated with Cd (6.37 mg kg(-1)), and weakly contaminated with Cu (256.36 mg kg(-1)) and Zn (209.85 mg kg(-1)). Zn appeared to be strongly bound in the residual fraction (72.24-77.86%), no matter the soil was metal contaminated or not. However, more than 9% Cd and 16% Cu was present in the non-residual fraction in the metal contaminated soils than in the uncontaminated soil, especially for site G and site F. Compared with that of the control soil, the micronucleus rates of site G and site F soil treatments increased by 2.7-fold and 1.7-fold, respectively. Low germination rates were observed in site C (50%) and site G (50%) soil extraction treated rice seeds. The shortest root length (0.2377 cm) was observed in site G soil treated groups, which is only 37.57% of that of the control soil treated groups. All of the micronucleus ratio of Vicia faba root cells, rice germination rate and root length after treatment of soil extraction indicate the eco-toxicity in site F and G soils although the three indexes are different in sensitivity to soil metal contamination.
19043590	Xanthomonas is a large genus of plant-associated and plant-pathogenic bacteria. Collectively, members cause diseases on over 392 plant species. Individually, they exhibit marked host- and tissue-specificity. The determinants of this specificity are unknown. To assess potential contributions to host- and tissue-specificity, pathogenesis-associated gene clusters were compared across genomes of eight Xanthomonas strains representing vascular or non-vascular pathogens of rice, brassicas, pepper and tomato, and citrus. The gum cluster for extracellular polysaccharide is conserved except for gumN and sequences downstream. The xcs and xps clusters for type II secretion are conserved, except in the rice pathogens, in which xcs is missing. In the otherwise conserved hrp cluster, sequences flanking the core genes for type III secretion vary with respect to insertion sequence element and putative effector gene content. Variation at the rpf (regulation of pathogenicity factors) cluster is more pronounced, though genes with established functional relevance are conserved. A cluster for synthesis of lipopolysaccharide varies highly, suggesting multiple horizontal gene transfers and reassortments, but this variation does not correlate with host- or tissue-specificity. Phylogenetic trees based on amino acid alignments of gum, xps, xcs, hrp, and rpf cluster products generally reflect strain phylogeny. However, amino acid residues at four positions correlate with tissue specificity, revealing hpaA and xpsD as candidate determinants. Examination of genome sequences of xanthomonads Xylella fastidiosa and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia revealed that the hrp, gum, and xcs clusters are recent acquisitions in the Xanthomonas lineage. Our results provide insight into the ancestral Xanthomonas genome and indicate that differentiation with respect to host- and tissue-specificity involved not major modifications or wholesale exchange of clusters, but subtle changes in a small number of genes or in non-coding sequences, and/or differences outside the clusters, potentially among regulatory targets or secretory substrates.
19043834
19044025
19045040	We report the results of a theoretical study of locally ordered fluctuations in a quasi-two-dimensional (quasi-2D) binary hard sphere mixture as monitored by the aperture cross-correlation function. Systems with thickness less than two large hard sphere diameters were studied, over a range of large hard sphere density and relative concentration of large and small hard spheres in the liquid state, for two ratios of sphere diameters, 0.2 and 0.3. In several major respects the occurrence and character of the structured fluctuations in a quasi-2D binary hard sphere mixture have similarities with those in a quasi-2D one-component hard sphere fluid, as reported by Sheu and Rice [J. Chem. Phys. 128, 244517 (2008)]. Specifically, our studies establish that structured fluctuations with both hexagonal and square symmetries can be found in the liquid phase well below the freezing density and that the occurrence of particular structured fluctuations is correlated with the symmetry of the solid to which the liquid freezes. However, there is also a major difference, specifically, the presence of the smaller spheres in the binary mixture can suppress the occurrence of all structured fluctuations. We attribute the affect of a small volume fraction of small spheres in a dense binary mixture of small and large spheres on the occurrence of structured fluctuations to the unfavorable entropy change associated with demixing of the small and large spheres.
19045859	The ionization/dissociation mechanism of cyclopentanone has been experimentally investigated in molecular beam by irradiating with intense 394 and 788 nm laser fields with pulse duration of 90 fs. The range of laser intensities varied from 3 x 10(13) to 4 x 10(14) W/cm(2). For both wavelengths, the singly charged parent ion is observable while the doubly charged one cannot be found easily, although the fragmentation pattern supports its presence. Meanwhile, the extent of fragmentation at 788 nm is less than that in the 394 nm case. We quantitatively analyze the ionization processes of cyclopentanone in intense femtosecond laser by comparing the calculation results of ionization rate constants obtained from Ammosov-Delone-Krainov, Keldysh, and Keldysh-Faisal-Reiss (KFR) theories based on hydrogenlike atom model. We also compare the experimental and theoretical results; the generalized KFR theory is found to be useful in predicting the ionization yields of singly and doubly charged cyclopentanone ion. To interpret the dissociation patterns of the cyclopentanone ions, we have used the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory with the potential surfaces obtained from the ab initio quantum chemical calculations.
19046356	Neonicotinoid insecticides, such as imidacloprid, are selective agonists of insect nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and are used extensively in areas of crop protection and animal health to control a variety of insect pest species. Here, we describe studies performed with nAChR subunits Nlalpha1 and Nlalpha2 cloned from the brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens, a major insect pest of rice crops in many parts of Asia. The influence of Nlalpha1 and Nlalpha2 subunits upon the functional properties of recombinant nAChRs has been examined by expression in Xenopus oocytes. In addition, the influence of a Nlalpha1 mutation (Y151S), which has been linked to neonicotinoid lab generated resistance in N. lugens, has been examined. As in previous studies of insect alpha subunits, functional expression has been achieved by co-expression with the mammalian beta2 subunit. This approach has revealed a significantly higher apparent affinity of imidacloprid for Nlalpha1/beta2 than for Nlalpha2/beta2 nAChRs. In addition, evidence has been obtained for the co-assembly of Nlalpha1 and Nlalpha2 subunits into 'triplet' nAChRs of subunit composition Nlalpha1/Nlalpha2/beta2. Evidence has also been obtained which demonstrates that the resistance-associated Y151S mutation has a significantly reduced effect on neonicotinoid agonist activity when Nlalpha1 is co-assembled with Nlalpha2 than when expressed as the sole alpha subunit in a heteromeric nAChR. These findings may be of importance in assessing the likely impact of the target-site mutations such as Y151S upon neonicotinoid insecticide resistance in insect field populations.
19046619	The Vercelli rice district in northern Italy plays a key role in the agri-food industry in a country which accounts for more than 50% of the EU rice production and exports roughly 70%. However, although wealth and jobs are created, the sector is said to be responsible for environmental impacts that are increasingly being perceived as topical. As a complex and comprehensive environmental evaluation is necessary to understand and manage the environmental impact of the agri-food chain, the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology has been applied to the rice production system: from the paddy field to the supermarket. The LCA has pointed out the magnitude of impact per kg of delivered white milled rice: a CO2eq emission of 2.9 kg, a primary energy consumption of 17.8 MJ and the use of 4.9 m3 of water for irrigation purposes. Improvement scenarios have been analysed considering alternative rice farming and food processing methods, such as organic and upland farming, as well as parboiling. The research has shown that organic and upland farming have the potential to decrease the impact per unit of cultivated area. However, due to the lower grain yields, the environmental benefits per kg of the final products are greatly reduced in the case of upland rice production and almost cancelled for organic rice. LCA has proved to be an effective tool for understanding the eco-profile of Italian rice and should be used for transparent and credible communication between suppliers and their customers.
19046633	The radio frequency plasma pyrolysis technology, which can overcome the disadvantages of common pyrolysis methods such as less gas products while significant tar formation, was used for pyrolyzing the biomass waste of rice straw. The experiments were performed at various plateau temperatures of 740, 813, 843 and 880K with corresponding loading powers of 357, 482, 574 and 664W, respectively. The corresponding yields of gas products (excluding nitrogen) from rice straw are 30.7, 56.6, 62.5 and 66.5wt.% with respect to the original dried sample and the corresponding specific heating values gained from gas products are about 4548, 4284, 4469 and 4438kcalkg(-1), respectively, for the said cases. The corresponding combustible portions remained in the solid residues are about 64.7, 35, 28.2 and 23.5wt.% with specific heating values of 4106, 4438, 4328 and 4251kcalkg(-1) with respective to solid residues, while that in the original dried sample is 87.2wt.% with specific heating value of 4042kcalkg(-1). The results indicated that the amount of combustibles converted into gas products increases with increasing plateau temperature. The kinetic model employed to describe the pyrolytic conversion of rice straw at constant temperatures agrees well with the experimental data. The best curve fittings render the frequency factor of 5759.5s(-1), activation energy of 74.29kJ mol(-1) and reaction order of 0.5. Data and information obtained are useful for the future design and operation of pyrolysis of rice straw via radio frequency plasma.
19046681	Lanthanum hydroxide precipitate is for the first time coated onto cellulose fibre and serves as a novel sorption medium for separation and speciation of inorganic selenium. A micro-column packed with precipitate-layer-coated cellulose fibre is incorporated into a sequential injection system for selenite retention from a neutral aqueous solution, which is afterwards stripped with a NaBH(4)-NaOH solution as eluent. The hydride generation is actuated by merging the eluate and hydrochloric acid downstream, followed by the detection with atomic fluorescence spectrometry. Total inorganic selenium is derived by pre-reduction of selenate and speciation is estimated by difference. The coated precipitate layer can be used for 150 runs for selenium sorption, offering a clear advantage over the conventional precipitation protocols where a large amount of precipitate is dissolved into a small volume of eluent which might interfere with the detection. With a sample volume of 1.0 mL, an enrichment factor of 9.7 and a detection limit of 9 ng L(-1) are obtained in a linear range of 0.05-2.5 microg L(-1). A sampling frequency of 24 h(-1) is achieved along with a R.S.D. of 1.7% at 0.5 microg L(-1) Se(IV). The procedure is validated by analyzing selenium in a reference material GBW 10010 (rice) and a human hair sample. It is further demonstrated by speciation of inorganic selenium in surface water samples by pre-reduction of selenate.
19047499	The plasma membrane (PM) proton pump ATPases (H(+)-ATPases) are involved in almost all aspects of biology. They are plant specific and several members of this family are supposed to play a key role in nutrient acquisition. At present, only some members of this gene family in plants have been characterized. However, no nutrient uptake associated H(+)-ATPase gene in rice has been functionally analysed. It is reported here that OsA8, a typical PM H(+)-ATPases gene that was predominantly expressed in roots of rice, is down-regulated by nutrient deficiency. The Osa8 mutant had a relatively smaller size and root to shoot biomass ratio, but higher ATPase activity than its wild-type counterparts under phosphorus (P) starvation conditions. Knockout of OsA8 affected the expression of several OsA genes and the high affinity phosphate transporter, OsPT6, and resulted in a higher P concentration in the roots and a lower amount of P in the shoots. These analyses demonstrate that OsA8 not only influences the uptake of P by roots, but also the translocation of P from the roots to the shoots in rice.
19049048	Hierarchical nano/micro structures of ZnO have been fabricated by solvothermal approach on sol-gel derived ZnO thin films. Paintbrush like nano/micro rod assembly, double-sided brush and windmill type architectures of ZnO are obtained when the ZnO thin film coated substrates were treated solvothermally in water at pH 10. Aligned nanorods are obtained at pH approximately 13.5 in water. In ethylenediamine-water solvent divergent micro/nanorod assemblies such as hemispherical dandelion, rice plant type bush of ZnO are obtained. Increase in the percentage of ethyelendiamine resulted in the formation of smaller assemblies of relatively thin nanorods. Initial slow reaction caused by the slow increase of the temperature inside the reaction medium and the different growth kinetics of the ZnO crystals are supposed to be the reason behind the architectural assemblies of the ZnO crystals.
19049503	Photosynthetic assimilation of CO2 is a primary source of carbon in soil and root exudates and can influence the community dynamics of rhizosphere organisms. Thus, if carbon partitioning is affected in transgenic crops, rhizosphere microbial communities may also be affected. In this study, the temporal effects of gene transformation on carbon partitioning in rice and rhizosphere microbial communities were investigated under greenhouse conditions using the 13C pulse-chase labeling method and phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis. The 13C contents in leaves of transgenic (Bt) and nontransgenic (Ck) rice were significantly different at the seedling, booting and heading stages. There were no detectable differences in 13C distribution in rice roots and rhizosphere microorganisms at any point during rice development. Although a significantly lower amount of Gram-positive bacterial PLFAs and a higher amount of Gram-negative bacterial PLFAs were observed in Bt rice rhizosphere as compared with Ck at all plant development stages, there were no significant differences in the amount of individual 13C-PLFA between Bt and Ck rhizospheres at any growing stage. These findings indicate that the insertion of cry1Ab and marker genes into rice had no persistent or adverse effect on the photosynthate distribution in rice or the microbial community composition in its rhizosphere.
19049971	Graminaceous plants take up iron through YS1 (yellow stripe 1) and YS1-like (YSL) transporters using iron-chelating compounds known as mugineic acid family phytosiderophores. We examined the expression of 18 rice (Oryza sativa L.) YSL genes (OsYSL1-18) in the epidermis/exodermis, cortex, and stele of rice roots. Expression of OsYSL15 in root epidermis and stele was induced by iron deficiency and showed daily fluctuation. OsYSL15 restored a yeast mutant defective in iron uptake when supplied with iron(III)-deoxymugineic acid and transported iron(III)-deoxymugineic acid in Xenopus laevis oocytes. An OsYSL15-green fluorescent protein fusion was localized to the plasma membrane when transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells. OsYSL15 promoter-beta-glucuronidase analysis revealed that OsYSL15 expression in roots was dominant in the epidermis/exodermis and phloem cells under conditions of iron deficiency and was detected only in phloem under iron sufficiency. These results strongly suggest that OsYSL15 is the dominant iron(III)-deoxymugineic acid transporter responsible for iron uptake from the rhizosphere and is also responsible for phloem transport of iron. OsYSL15 was also expressed in flowers, developing seeds, and in the embryonic scutellar epithelial cells during seed germination. OsYSL15 knockdown seedlings showed severe arrest in germination and early growth and were rescued by high iron supply. These results demonstrate that rice OsYSL15 plays a crucial role in iron homeostasis during the early stages of growth.
19050063	Maturity group (based on the number of days to maturity) is an important growth trait for determining crop productivity, but there has been no attempt to examine the effects of elevated [CO(2)] on yield enhancement of rice cultivars with different maturity groups. Since early-maturing cultivars generally show higher plant N concentration than late-maturing cultivars, it is hypothesized that [CO(2)]-induced yield enhancement might be larger for early-maturing cultivars than late-maturing cultivars. To test this hypothesis, the effects of elevated [CO(2)] on yield components, biomass, N uptake, and leaf photosynthesis of cultivars with different maturity groups were examined for 2 years using a free-air CO(2) enrichment (FACE). Elevated [CO(2)] significantly increased grain yield and the magnitude significantly differed among the cultivars as detected by a significant [CO(2)] x cultivar interaction. Two cultivars (one with early and one with late maturity) responded more strongly to elevated [CO(2)] than those with intermediate maturity, resulting mainly from increases in spikelet density. Biomass and N uptake at the heading stage were closely correlated with grain yield and spikelet density over [CO(2)] and cultivars. Our 2 year field trial rejected the hypothesis that earlier cultivars would respond more to elevated [CO(2)] than later cultivars, but it is revealed that the magnitude of the growth enhancement before heading is a useful criterion for selecting rice cultivars capable of adapting to elevated [CO(2)].
19052152	Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) catalyze the irreversible oxidation of a wide range of reactive aldehydes to their corresponding carboxylic acids. Although the proteins have been studied from various organisms and at different growth stages, their roles in seed development have not been well elucidated. We obtained T-DNA insertional mutants in OsALDH7, which is remarkably inducible by oxidative and abiotic stresses. Interestingly, endosperms from the osaldh7 null mutants accumulated brown pigments during desiccation and storage. Extracts from the mutant seeds showed a maximum absorbance peak at 360 nm, the wavelength that melanoidin absorbs. Under UV light, those extracts also exhibited much stronger fluorescence than the wild type, suggesting that the pigments are melanoidin. These pigments started to accumulate in the late seed developmental stage, the time when OsALDH7 expression began to increase significantly. Purified OsALDH7 protein showed enzyme activities to malondialdehyde, acetaldehyde, and glyceraldehyde. These results suggest that OsALDH7 is involved in removing various aldehydes formed by oxidative stress during seed desiccation. The mutant seeds were more sensitive to our accelerated aging treatment and accumulated more malondialdehyde than the wild type. These data imply that OsALDH7 plays an important role in maintaining seed viability by detoxifying the aldehydes generated by lipid peroxidation.
19052154	Cryptochromes (CRYs) are blue light receptors important for plant growth and development. Comprehensive information on monocot CRYs is currently only available for rice (Oryza sativa). We report here the molecular and functional characterization of two CRY genes, TaCRY1a and TaCRY2, from the monocot wheat (Triticum aestivum). The expression of TaCRY1a was most abundant in seedling leaves and barely detected in roots and germinating embryos under normal growth conditions. The expression of TaCRY2 in germinating embryos was equivalent to that in leaves and much higher than the TaCRY1a counterpart. Transition from dark to light slightly affected the expression of TaCRY1a and TaCRY2 in leaves, and red light produced a stronger induction of TaCRY1a. Treatment of seedlings with high salt, polyethylene glycol, and abscisic acid (ABA) up-regulated TaCRY2 in roots and germinating embryos. TaCRY1a displays a light-responsive nucleocytoplasmic shuttling pattern similar to that of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) CRY1, contains nuclear localization domains in both the N and C termini, and includes information for nuclear export in its N-terminal domain. TaCRY2 was localized to the nucleus in the dark. Expression of TaCRY1a-green fluorescent protein or TaCRY2-green fluorescent protein in Arabidopsis conferred a shorter hypocotyl phenotype under blue light. These transgenic Arabidopsis plants showed higher sensitivity to high-salt, osmotic stress, and ABA treatment during germination and postgermination development, and they displayed altered expression of stress/ABA-responsive genes. The primary root growth in transgenic seedlings was less tolerant of ABA. These observations indicate that TaCRY1 and TaCRY2 might be involved in the ABA signaling pathway in addition to their role in primary blue light signal transduction.
19052362	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial blight (BB), which is one of the most devastating diseases of rice in most rice-growing countries. D-Alanine-D-alanine ligase A (DdlA), coded by the Xoo0352 gene, was expressed, purified and crystallized. DdlA is an enzyme that is involved in D-alanine metabolism and the biosynthesis of an essential bacterial peptidoglycan precursor, in which it catalyzes the formation of D-alanyl-D-alanine from two D-alanines, and is thus an attractive antibacterial drug target against Xoo. The DdlA crystals diffracted to 2.3 A resolution and belonged to the primitive tetragonal space group P4(3)2(1)2, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 83.0, c = 97.6 A. There is one molecule in the asymmetric unit, with a corresponding V(M) of 1.88 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent content of 34.6%. The initial structure was determined by molecular replacement using D-alanine-D-alanine ligase from Staphylococcus aureus (PDB code 2i87) as a template model.
19052366	The disease bacterial blight results in serious production losses of rice in Asian countries. The aroB gene encoding dehydroquinate synthase (DHQS), which is a potential antibiotic target, was identified from the plant-pathogenic bacterium Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). DHQS plays an essential role in the synthesis of aromatic compounds in the shikimate pathway. The aroB gene (Xoo1243) was cloned from Xoo and the corresponding DHQS protein was subsequently overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The purified protein was crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method and yielded crystals that diffracted to 2.5 A resolution. The crystals belonged to the tetragonal space group P4(3)2(1)2, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 118.2, c = 98.2 A. According to a Matthews coefficient calculation, the crystal contained two molecules in the asymmetric unit, with a corresponding V(M) of 2.06 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent content of 40.4%.
19052370	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial blight in rice, which is one of the most devastating diseases in rice-cultivating countries. The Xoo0880 (fabD) gene coding for a malonyl-CoA-acyl carrier protein transacylase (MCAT) from Xoo was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. MCAT is an essential enzyme that catalyzes a key reaction of fatty-acid synthesis in bacteria and plants: the conversion of malonyl-CoA to malonyl-acyl carrier protein. The FabD enzyme was purified and crystallized in order to elucidate its three-dimensional structure and to determine its enzymatic reaction mechanism and biological importance. The crystal obtained diffracted to 1.9 A resolution and belonged to the orthorhombic space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 41.4, b = 74.6, c = 98.5 A. According to Matthews coefficient calculations, the crystallographic structure contains only one monomeric unit in the asymmetric unit with a V(M) of 2.21 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent content of 44.3%.
1905267	Effect of feeding rice diet with and without lysine and threonine supplementation on hepatic mitochondria and its inner and outer membrane proteins, enzymes and phospholipids has been studied. The exchange of phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine between microsomes and mitochondria has also been studied under these conditions. Deficient diet lead to significant decrease in proteins as well as activities of monoamine oxidase, succinate dehydrogenase, cytochrome a + a3 and cytochrome c in mitochondria and its inner and outer membranes. Feeding of the deficient diet also significantly reduced total phospholipids and PC in mitochondria and its outer mitochondrial membrane. In the inner mitochondrial membrane, only PE and cardiolipin were reduced. The incorporation (DPM/microgram PLP) of [methyl-3H]choline and [methyl-14C]methionine into PC of mitochondria and its outer membrane and that of 32Pi into PC and PE of outer mitochondrial membrane but only into PC of inner mitochondrial membrane were significantly reduced in the deficient group. The exchange rates of PC and PE between microsomes and mitochondria were reduced in the deficient group. Supplementation of the deficient diet with lysine and threonine profoundly improved the above biochemical lesions as compared to casein fed rats.
19052786	Studies conducted with various inexpensive carbon sources such as whey, vegetable oils (palm, mustard, soybean and coconut), a low-cost source of glucose-D, rice and wheat bran, and mustard and palm oil cakes demonstrated palm oil as the best substrate for accumulation of a novel short-chain-length-long-chain-length polyhydroxyalkanoate (SCL-LCL-PHA) co-polymer containing SCL 3HAs [3-hydroxybutyric acid (3HB) and 3-hydroxyvaleric acid (3HV)] and LCL 3HAs of 3-hydroxyhexadecanoic acid (3HHD) and 3-hydroxyoctadecanoic acid (3HOD) units as constituents by a sludge-isolated Pseudomonas aeruginosa MTCC 7925. The co-polymer content reached up to 60% of dry cell weight (dcw) at 48 h of incubation in 0.5% (v/v) palm oil and the extract of 0.5% (v/v) palm oil cake supplemented vessels. The PHAs pool was further enhanced up to 69 and 75% (dcw), when the above culture was subjected to P- and N-limitation, respectively. The mol fraction of 3HB:3HV:3HHD:3HOD units were, respectively, 83.1:7.7:3.8:5.4 and 87.3:5.1:3.6:4.0 in P- and N-limited cultures. Consequently, a co-polymer yield of 5 g l(-1) (approx.) was achieved, which was about 80-fold higher as compared to 69 mg l(-1) of the control culture. On substrate basis, the accumulation reached up to 0.62 g PHAs per g substrate, which was significantly higher as compared to the yield obtained from starch by Haloferax mediterranei and Azotobacter chroococum, from molasses by A. vinelandii UWD, and from lactose and xylose by Pseudomonas cepacia. This novel P(3HB-co-3HV-co-3HHD-co-3HOD) co-polymer exhibited better thermal and mechanical properties as revealed from the differential scanning calorimetry and mechanical property studies, thus opens up new possibilities for various industrial applications.
19053143	Mineral deficiency limits crop production in most soils and in Asia alone, about 50% of rice lands are phosphorous deficient. In an attempt to determine the mechanism of rice adaptation to phosphorous deficiency, changes in proteome patterns associated with phosphorous deficiency have been investigated. We analyzed the parental line Nipponbare in comparison to its near isogenic line (NIL6-4) carrying a major phosphorous uptake QTL (Pup1) on chromosome 12. Using 2-DE, the proteome pattern of roots grown under 1 and 100 microM phosphorous were compared. Out of 669 proteins reproducibly detected on root 2-DE gels, 32 proteins showed significant changes in the two genotypes. Of them, 17 proteins showed different responses in two genotypes under stress condition. MS resulted in identification of 26 proteins involved in major phosphorous deficiency adaptation pathways including reactive oxygen scavenging, citric acid cycle, signal transduction, and plant defense responses as well as proteins with unknown function. Our results highlighted a coordinated response in NIL in response to phosphorous deficiency which may confer higher adaptation to nutrient deficiency.
19053222	Absorption of minerals is inhibited by phytic acid, fiber, and protein because of the chelates formed. Response surface method (RSM) was used in this study to evaluate the effect of application of commercial phytase, protease, and cellulase in rice bran on the in vitro solubility of calcium (IVCa), iron (IVFe), and zinc (IVZn). It is shown that IVCa and IVZn were significantly improved by the application of phytase and cellulase, and the models of two second-order polynomials are recommended for prediction, with coefficients at R(2) = 0.86 and R(2) = 0.88, respectively. Interaction between protease and cellulase also significantly affected IVCa and IVZn. Cellulase had more efficiency than phytase on IVCa. Differing in its effect on Ca and Zn, phytase had a significant linear correlation with IVFe, and none of the other processing parameters exerted a significant effect. The largest increment for IVFe, IVCa, and IVZn occurred in the treatment with applications of phytase at 2.5 U g(-1) and protease and cellulase at 0.2% and 1%, respectively, which were 3.3, 3.6, and 4.3 times, respectively, that of the untreated material.
19053355	A metabolite profiling approach based on gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) was used to investigate time-dependent metabolic changes in the course of the germination of rice. Brown rice kernels were soaked and incubated for a total of 96 h under ambient conditions. Samples taken during the germination process were subjected to an extraction and fractionation procedure covering a broad spectrum of lipophilic (e.g., fatty acid methyl esters, hydrocarbons, fatty alcohols, sterols) and hydrophilic (e.g., sugars, acids, amino acids, amines) low molecular weight rice constituents. Investigation of the obtained fractions by GC resulted in the detection of 615 distinct peaks, of which 174 were identified by means of MS. Statistical assessment of the data via principal component analysis demonstrated that the metabolic changes during the germination process are reflected by time-dependent shifts of the scores, which were similar for the three rice materials investigated. Analysis of the corresponding loadings showed that polar metabolites were major contributors to the separation along the first principal component. Relative quantifications based on standardized peak heights revealed dynamic changes of the metabolites in the course of the germination.
19053378	Incorporation of organic fertilizers/amendments in soils has been, and will continue to be, a popular strategy for improving the quality of arable soils. However, the mechanism by which the dissolved organic matters (DOMs) affect soil properties or interact with other substances in soils is largely unknown. In this study, a batch equilibrium experiment was performed to evaluate the effect of two types of DOMs on the behavior of prometryne (a herbicide) in soils. Two sorts of DOMs were derived from lakebed sludge (SL) and rice straw (ST), respectively. The results show that sorption capacity in one soil for prometryne was significantly reduced by application of DOMs, whereas desorption of prometryne was promoted by DOM treatments. To understand the mobility behavior of prometryne in soils with DOMs, a column leaching experiment was carried out. It is shown that both DOMs enhanced the solubility and migration of prometryne in soils. To confirm the role of DOMs in regulating the mobility of prometryne in soils, a soil thin-layer chromatography was performed. The migration of prometryne was promoted by DOMs, which were used as a developing solvent or directly incorporated in the soil thin layer. The data indicate that DOM extracts can modify the mobility of prometryne in soil.
19053396	Njavara rice starch was studied for its morphological, physicochemical, and thermal properties and was found to be different from the native chamba variety of rice. Njavara rice starch has bigger granule and has a high (85 degrees C) gelatinization temperature and shows high thermal stability. The swelling power, solubility, water absorption capacity, and enthalpy of gelatinization were found to be high compared to the native rice starch. The 6% (w/v) njavara rice starch gel had 87.45% clarity and its pasting properties such as peak viscosity (957 cP), break down viscosity (324 cP), and set back values (421 cP) were also higher. It also had better freeze thaw stability, gel strength, and high springiness against shear stress. Other properties like hardness, gumminess, adhesiveness, cohesiveness, and chewiness of the gel are slightly higher than native rice starch. These inherent high thermal and pasting properties make njavara rice suitable as poultice for the body massage in the panchakarma treatment.
19053857	Chinese red yeast rice (RYR), a food herb made by fermenting Monascus purpureus Went yeast on white rice, contains a mixture of eight different monacolins that inhibit cholesterogenesis and also red pigments with antioxidant properties. Monacolin K (MK) is identical to lovastatin (LV). Both LV and RYR contain statins, which could inhibit de novo cholesterogenesis, which is critical to the growth of tumor cells. Dysregulation of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway has been demonstrated during progression to androgen independence in xenograft models, and it has been proposed that cholesterogenesis and androgen receptor (AR) up-regulation are essential to androgen-independent cell survival. This study was designed to examine the differences between the effects of RYR and LV on androgen-dependent LNCaP cells and androgen-independent cells overexpressing AR (LNCaP-AR). RYR showed more potent inhibition effect on prostate cancer cell growth compared to LV. Both the pigment and monacolin-enriched fractions purified from RYR inhibited proliferation (P < .001) to a lesser extent than intact RYR. While mevalonate, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR), restored proliferation in LV-treated cells, it failed to do so in RYR-treated cells. Expression of the HMGCR gene was up-regulated by LV (P < .001) but not RYR in both LNCaP and LNCaP-AR cells. These results suggest that the RYR matrix beyond MK alone may be bioactive in inhibiting androgen-dependent and -independent prostate cancer growth. In vivo studies are needed to further establish the potential advantages of RYR over LV in prostate cancer chemoprevention and in the prevention of the emergence of androgen independence.
19054233	To combine molecular and cultivation techniques to characterize the methanotrophic community in the soil-water interface (SWI) and rhizospheric soil from flooded rice fields in Uruguay, a temperate region in South America. A novel type I, related to the genus Methylococcus, and three type II methanotrophs were isolated from the highest positive dilution steps from the most probable number (MPN) counts. Potential methane oxidation activities measured in slurried samples were higher in the rhizospheric soil compared to the SWI and were stimulated by N-fertilization. PmoA (particulate methane monooxygenase) clone libraries were constructed for both rice microsites. SWI clones clustered in six groups related to cultivated and uncultivated members from different ecosystems of the genera Methylobacter, Methylomonas, Methylococcus and a novel type I sublineage while cultivation and T-RFLP (terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism) analysis confirmed the presence of type II methanotrophs. Cultivation techniques, cloning analysis and T-RFLP fingerprinting of the pmoA gene revealed a diverse methanotrophic community in the rice rhizospheric soil and SWI. This study reports, for the first time, the analysis of the methanotrophic diversity in rice SWI and this diversity may be exploited in reducing methane emissions.
19054337	Arabidopsis contains only one functional dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) gene, but several DFR-like genes encoding proteins with the conserved NAD(P)H binding domain. At4g35420, named DRL1 (Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase-like1), is a closely related homolog of the rice anther-specific gene OsDFR2 reported previously. Two T-DNA mutants (drl1-1 and drl1-2) were found to have impaired pollen formation and seed production. Histological analysis revealed defective microspore development after tetrad release in both mutants. Microspore walls were found to rupture, releasing the protoplasts which eventually degenerated. The DRL1 promoter is anther-specific in closed flower buds. Promoter-GUS analysis in transgenic Arabidopsis revealed expression in tapetum, tetrads, and developing microspores, but not in mature anthers. Enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP)-localization analysis demonstrated that DRL1 is a soluble cytosolic protein that may also be localized in the nucleus. Restoration of male fertility and seed formation was only achieved by a native promoter-DRL1 construct, but not by a 35S-DRL1 construct, demonstrating the importance of spatial and temporal specificities of DRL1 expression. DRL1 may be involved in a novel metabolic pathway essential for pollen wall development. DRL1 homologs were identified as anther- and floral-specific expressed sequence tags from different species, suggesting that DRL1 may have a conserved functional role in male fertility in flowering plants.
19054558	The organophosphate insecticide diazinon is widely used in the Mekong river delta and often applied several times per rice crop. In the present study, juvenile snakehead fish Channa striata, which is a commercially important inhabitant of rice fields, were exposed twice to 4-day pulses of 0.016, 0.079 or 0.35mg/L of diazinon, separated by a 2 week interval to imitate the exposure conditions in the field. After the 4-day exposures to these environmentally realistic concentrations, the fish were moved to clean water for recovery. During this experiment, which lasted a total of 2 months, the individual growth rates and brain cholinesterase levels were measured. We show not only that diazinon caused long term inhibition of brain ChE activity, which was still significantly depressed at the termination of the experiment, but also that the highest of these realistic concentrations caused a significant 30% growth inhibition.
19054849
19055443	Rice is known to accumulate high amounts of silicon (Si) in plant tissue, which helps to decrease the intensity of many economically important rice diseases. Among these diseases, brown spot, caused by the fungus Bipolaris oryzae, is one of the most devastating because it negatively affects yield and grain quality. This study aimed to evaluate the importance of active root Si uptake in rice for controlling brown spot development. Some components of host resistance were evaluated in a rice mutant, low silicon 1 (lsi1), defective in active Si uptake, and its wild-type counterpart (cv. Oochikara). Plants were inoculated with B. oryzae after growing for 35 days in a hydroponic culture amended with 0 or 2 mMol Si. The components of host resistance evaluated were incubation period (IP), relative infection efficiency (RIE), area under brown spot progress curve (AUBSPC), final lesion size (FLS), rate of lesion expansion (r), and area under lesion expansion progress curve (AULEPC). Si content from both Oochikara and lsi1 in the +Si treatment increased in leaf tissue by 219 and 178%, respectively, over the nonamended controls. Plants from Oochikara had 112% more Si in leaf tissue than plants from lsi1. The IP of brown spot from Oochikara increased approximately 6 h in the presence of Si and the RIE, AUBSPC, FLS, r, and AULEPC were significantly reduced by 65, 75, 33, 36, and 35%, respectively. In the presence of Si, the IP increased 3 h for lsi1 but the RIE, AUBSPC, FLS, r, and AULEPC were reduced by only 40, 50, 12, 21, and 12%, respectively. The correlation between Si leaf content and IP was significantly positive but Si content was negatively correlated with RIE, AUBSPC, FLS, r, and AULEPC. Single degree-of-freedom contrasts showed that Oochikara and lsi1 supplied with Si were significantly different from those not supplied with Si for all components of resistance evaluated. This result showed that a reduced Si content in tissues of plants from lsi1 dramatically affected its basal level of resistance to brown spot, suggesting that a minimum Si concentration is needed. Consequently, the results of this study emphasized the importance of an active root Si uptake system for an increase in rice resistance to brown spot.
19055717	The plant miRNAs represent an important class of endogenous small RNAs that guide cleavage of an mRNA target or repress its translation to control development and adaptation to stresses. MiRNAs are nuclear-encoded genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II, producing a primary precursor that is subsequently processed by DCL1 an RNase III Dicer-like protein. In rice hundreds of miRNAs have been described or predicted, but little is known on their genes and precursors which are important criteria to distinguish them from siRNAs. Here we develop a combination of experimental approaches to detect novel miRNAs in rice, identify their precursor transcripts and genes and predict or validate their mRNA targets. We produced four cDNA libraries from small RNA fractions extracted from distinct rice tissues. By in silico analysis we selected 6 potential novel miRNAs, and confirmed that their expression requires OsDCL1. We predicted their targets and used 5'RACE to validate cleavage for three of them, targeting a PPR, an SPX domain protein and a GT-like transcription factor respectively. In addition, we identified precursor transcripts for the 6 miRNAs expressed in rice, showing that these precursors can be efficiently processed using a transient expression assay in transfected Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Most interestingly, we describe two precursors producing tandem miRNAs, but in distinct arrays. We focus on one of them encoding osa-miR159a.2, a novel miRNA produced from the same stem-loop structure encoding the conserved osa-miR159a.1. We show that this dual osa-miR159a.2-osa-miR159a.1 structure is conserved in distant rice species and maize. Finally we show that the predicted mRNA target of osa-miR159a.2 encoding a GT-like transcription factor is cleaved in vivo at the expected site. The combination of approaches developed here identified six novel miRNAs expressed in rice which can be clearly distinguished from siRNAs. Importantly, we show that two miRNAs can be produced from a single precursor, either from tandem stem-loops or tandemly arrayed in a single stem-loop. This suggests that processing of these precursors could be an important regulatory step to produce one or more functional miRNAs in plants and perhaps coordinate cleavage of distinct targets in the same plant tissue.
19056285	l-Rhamnose (Rha) is an important constituent of pectic polysaccharides, a major component of the cell walls of Arabidopsis, which is synthesized by three enzymes encoded by AtRHM1, AtRHM2/AtMUM4, and AtRHM3. Despite the finding that RHM1 is involved in root hair formation in Arabidopsis, experimental evidence is still lacking for the in vivo enzymatic activity and subcellular compartmentation of AtRHM1 protein. AtRHM1 displays high similarity to the other members of RHM family in Arabidopsis and in other plant species such as rice and grape. Expression studies with AtRHM1 promoter-GUS fusion gene showed that AtRHM1 was expressed almost ubiquitously, with stronger expression in roots and cotyledons of young seedlings and inflorescences. GFP::AtRHM1 fusion protein was found to be localized in the cytosol of cotyledon cells and of petiole cells of cotyledon, indicating that AtRHM1 is a cytosol-localized protein. The overexpression of AtRHM1 gene in Arabidopsis resulted in an increase of rhamnose content as much as 40% in the leaf cell wall compared to the wild type as well as an alteration in the contents of galactose and glucose. Fourier-transform infrared analyses revealed that surplus rhamnose upon AtRHM1 overexpression contributes to the construction of rhamnogalacturonan.
1905672	A controlled trial was performed to compare enteral feeding with either an amino acid based feed or a whole protein feed as sole treatment for active Crohn's disease. Twenty four patients were studied (nine with ileal, 11 with ileocolonic, and four with colonic disease). Both feeds proved effective; nine of 13 patients randomised to receive the amino acid based feed were in clinical remission within three weeks as defined by a simple activity index compared with eight of 11 treated with the whole protein feed. Patients in clinical remission were then crossed over onto the other feed. None of the six patients who were changed to the whole protein feed relapsed over the subsequent three week period compared with three of seven patients who were changed to the amino acid based feed. In responders the median serum C reactive protein concentration fell from 21 mg/l (range 9-82) on entry to 6 mg/l (range 3-19) at six weeks. Seven patients relapsed within eight months of starting solid food (mean 3.7 months), while nine were still in remission (follow up period 3-9 months, median six months). Detailed studies of staged reintroduction of food and permitted food additives were carried out over a four year period in a patient with extensive stricturing small bowel Crohn's disease who had been brought into remission by open treatment with enteral feeding. Carrageenan, other permitted emulsifiers, bread, meat, potatoes, oranges, refined sugar, dairy produce, flour, and rice were all reintroduced without any objective ill effect, but green vegetables provoked a clinical and biochemical relapse within one week of introduction. Remission was rapidly achieved by switching back to the enteral feed but reintroduction of the low residue diet that had been previously tolerated produced a brisk relapse. Clinical and biochemical remission was again achieved by a return to the enteral feed but relapse again occurred with reintroduction of the low residue diet. These studies confirm the therapeutic effect of enteral feeding in Crohn's disease. This effect does not seem to be due to avoidance of whole protein, but the very low residue of chemically defined enteral feeds may be important, particularly in patients with intestinal strictures.
19057986	A novel chemiluminescence (CL) reaction, captopril-H2O2, for determination of Cu(II) at nanogram per milliliter level in batch-type system has been described. The method relies on the catalytic effect of Cu(II) on the oxidation of captopril with hydrogen peroxide in alkaline medium. The optimization step was performed using univariate methodology and the factors studied were: pH and concentrations of the utilized reagents. Under the optimum conditions, calibration plot was linear in the range of 0.1-2.0 ppm. Limit of detection was 30 ppb and relative standard deviation for five replicate determinations of 0.8 ppm Cu(II) was 1.89%. The proposed method was successfully applied to the determination of Cu(II) in human scalp hair and cereals, rice and wheat, flour with satisfactory selectivity and sensitivity. The results were validated by comparison with a standard method (FAAS). The possible mechanism of the new CL reaction has also been discussed.
19058623	The association of environmental factors with fluctuations in the density of the malaria vector Anopheles minimus (Theobald, 1901) was analyzed in Longtang and Dongfanghong, two villages in southern Yunnan Province, Peoples Republic of China. The distance of trap locations to rice fields and the distance from trap locations to rivulets were negatively correlated to the density of An. minimus. The length of a rivulet within a 1-km buffer around a trap location was positively correlated to the density of An. minimus, whereas the rice field area within a 1-km buffer of a trap location was negatively correlated to An. minimus dominance, but the length of a rivulet within a 1-km buffer around a trap location and the distance of trap locations to rice fields were positively correlated to An. minimus dominance. Linear models relating the density and dominance of An. minimus at trap sites in relation to environmental parameters are described. These results could help in the design of malaria control strategies.
19059811	The spleen is an important organ for tumor immunity, and the splenic sympathetic nerve has a suppressive effect on splenic natural killer (NK) cytotoxicity. On the basis of this and reports that Lentinus edodes (Shiitake mushroom) has tumor-inhibitory effects, the authors hypothesized that an extract of a mycelial culture of L. edodes grown in a solid medium of sugar-cane bagasse and defatted rice bran-L.E.M-might affect the sympathetic splenic sympathetic nerve activity (Splenic-SNA) and thus inhibit tumor proliferation. Thus, the effect of L.E.M on Splenic-SNA and human cancer cell proliferation was examined. Splenic-SNA was found to be suppressed by an intraduodenal L.E.M injection in urethane-anesthetized rats, which significantly inhibited increases in the tumor volume of human colon and breast cancer cells implanted in athymic nude mice. These findings suggest that L.E.M has an inhibitory effect on tumor proliferation possibly via a reduction in NK cytotoxicity through the suppression of Splenic-SNA.
19060108	The microtubule-associated protein, MAP65, is a member of a family of divergent microtubule-associated proteins from different organisms generally involved in maintaining the integrity of the central spindle in mitosis. The dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana and the monocotyledon rice (Oryza sativa) genomes contain 9 and 11 MAP65 genes, respectively. In this work, we show that the majority of these proteins fall into five phylogenetic clades, with the greatest variation between clades being in the C-terminal random coil domain. At least one Arabidopsis and one rice isotype is within each clade, indicating a functional specification for the C terminus. In At MAP65-1, the C-terminal domain is a microtubule binding region (MTB2) harboring the phosphorylation sites that control its activity. The At MAP65 isotypes show differential localization to microtubule arrays and promote microtubule polymerization with variable efficiency in a MTB2-dependent manner. In vivo studies demonstrate that the dynamics of the association and dissociation of different MAP65 isotypes with microtubules can vary up to 10-fold and that this correlates with their ability to promote microtubule polymerization. Our data demonstrate that the C-terminal variable region, MTB2, determines the dynamic properties of individual isotypes and suggest that slower turnover is conditional for more efficient microtubule polymerization.
19060383	Rice ent-kaurene oxidase 2 (OsKO2) perhaps functions in the early steps of gibberellin biosynthesis. We found that microsomes from the methylotropic yeast Pichia pastoris expressing both OsKO2 and a fungal cytochrome P450 monooxygenase (P450) reductase converted ent-kaurene to ent-kaurenoic acid. This is direct evidence that OsKO2 is involved in the sequential oxidation of ent-kaurene to ent-kaurenoic acid in gibberellin biosynthesis in rice.
19061404	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is the causal agent of bacterial blight of rice. We have used enhanced green fluorescent protein-tagged X. oryzae pv. oryzae cells in conjunction with confocal microscopy to monitor the role of several adhesin-like functions in bacterial adhesion to leaf surface and early stages of leaf entry. Mutations in genes encoding either the Xanthomonas adhesin-like protein A (XadA) or its paralog, Xanthomonas adhesin-like protein B (XadB), as well as the X. oryzae pv. oryzae homolog of Yersinia autotransporter-like protein H (YapH), exhibit deficiencies in leaf attachment or entry. A mutation in the X. oryzae pv. oryzae pilQ gene, which is predicted to encode the type IV pilus secretin, appears to have no effect on leaf attachment or entry. The xadA- mutant is deficient in the ability to cause disease following surface inoculation while the XadB, YapH, and PilQ functions are less important than XadA for this process. The xadA- and xadB- mutants have no effect on virulence following wound inoculation whereas the yapH- and pilQ- mutants are always virulence deficient following wound inoculation. Overall, these results indicate that multiple adhesin-like functions are involved in promoting virulence of X. oryzae pv. oryzae, with preferential involvement of individual functions at different stages of the disease process.
19061406	Many gram-negative bacteria secrete so-called effector proteins via a type III secretion (T3S) system. Through genome screening for genes encoding potential T3S effectors, 60 candidates were selected from rice pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae MAFF311018 using these criteria: i) homologs of known T3S effectors in plant-pathogenic bacteria, ii) genes with expression regulated by hrp regulatory protein HrpX, or iii) proteins with N-terminal amino acid patterns associated with T3S substrates of Pseudomonas syringae. Of effector candidates tested with the Bordetella pertussis calmodulin-dependent adenylate cyclase reporter for translocation into plant cells, 16 proteins were translocated in a T3S system-dependent manner. Of these 16 proteins, nine were homologs of known effectors in other plant-pathogenic bacteria and seven were not. Most of the effectors were widely conserved in Xanthomonas spp.; however, some were specific to X. oryzae. Interestingly, all these effectors were expressed in an HrpX-dependent manner, suggesting coregulation of effectors and the T3S system. In X. campestris pv. vesicatoria, HpaB and HpaC (HpaP in X. oryzae pv. oryzae) have a central role in recruiting T3S substrates to the secretion apparatus. Secretion of all but one effector was reduced in both HpaB() and HpaP() mutant strains, indicating that HpaB and HpaP are widely involved in efficient secretion of the effectors.
19061530	Bacterial blight (BB) of rice caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae (Xoo) is one of the major constraints to productivity in South-East Asia. The strategy of using major genes, singly or in combination, continues to be the most effective approach for BB management. Currently, more than two dozen genes have been designated but not all the known genes are effective against all the prevalent pathotypes. The challenge, therefore, is to continue to expand the gene pool of effective and potentially durable resistance genes. Wild species constitute an important reservoir of the resistance genes including BB. An accession of Oryza nivara (IRGC 81825) was found to be resistant to all the seven Xoo pathotypes prevalent in northern states of India. Inheritance and mapping of resistance in O. nivara was studied by using F2, BC2F2, BC3F1 and BC3F2 progenies of the cross involving Oryza sativa cv PR114 and the O. nivara acc. 81825 using the most virulent Xoo pathotype. Genetic analysis of the segregating progenies revealed that the BB resistance in O. nivara was conditioned by a single dominant gene. Bulked segregant analysis (BSA) of F2 population using 191 polymorphic SSR markers identified a approximately 35 centiMorgans (cM) chromosomal region on 4L, bracketed by RM317 and RM562, to be associated with BB resistance. Screening of BC3F1 and BC2F2 progenies and their genotyping with more than 30 polymorphic SSR markers in the region, covering Bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone OSJNBb0085C12, led to mapping of the resistance gene between the STS markers based on annotated genes LOC_Os04g53060 and LOC_Os04g53120, which is approximately 38.4 kb. Since none of the known Xa genes, which are mapped on chromosome 4L, are effective against the Xoo pathotypes tested, the BB resistance gene identified and transferred from O. nivara is novel and is tentatively designated as Xa30(t). Homozygous resistant BC3F3 progenies with smallest introgression region have been identified.
19062069	The behavior of sprayed tricyclazole in rice paddy lysimeters was studied. Tricyclazole residues were measured from rice leaves and paddy water after tricyclazole spraying in paddy lysimeters. The rate of photolysis and hydrolysis of tricyclazole on the surface of rice leaves was also determined in a laboratory experiment. Tricyclazole was extracted from leaf and water samples and determined by liquid chromatography with UV or mass spectrometry. The hydrolysis half-lives of tricyclazole on rice leaves were 11.9 and 5.1 d for the formulated product and standard, respectively. The photolysis half-lives were longer, 16.4d for the formulated product and 20.9 d for the standard. In the paddy lysimeter, tricyclazole dissipation on leaves involved either biphasic first-order kinetics or single-phase first-order kinetics, depending on the rainfall pattern. Half-lives of tricyclazole on lysimeter rice leaves were from 3.0 to 5.7 d. The dissipation of tricyclazole in paddy water followed single-phase first-order kinetics with half-lives ranging from 2.1 to 5.0 d.
19062638	To study the component of ORPs (Oxysterol-binding proteins-related proteins) family in the rice fungus (Magnaporthe grisea), and the functions of MgORP1 gene with growing development of M. grisea, we constructed two MgORP1 deletion mutants and a complementation mutant. All proteins of ORPs have a conserved OSBP-related ligand-binding domain (ORD), which was compared by BLASTP with the sequences of M. grisea genomic DNA published in M. grisea database. One of ORP gene, designated as MgORP1, was deleted by gene replacement and then the phenotypes of delta MgORP1 were characterized. Six putative ORP family proteins have been found in M. grisea, and the growth rate of hyphal colony in complete medium and conidiation of delta MgORP1 were lower, whereas the ability of conidia germination, appressoria formation and pathogenicity were normal. MgORP1 gene of M. grisea was probably involved in colony growth and conidiation.
19063765	We sought to evaluate the relationship between selected lifestyle and socio-economic characteristics and dietary habits of Greek adolescents. During 2004, 2118 school adolescents were selected from twelve schools in Vyronas region, Athens. Dietary intake was assessed through a semi-quantitative FFQ. Principal components analysis was applied to extract dietary patterns. Seven components, explaining the 50% of the total variation in intake, were extracted. Component 1 ('junk food' pattern) was heavily loaded by the consumption of 'sweet' and 'salty' snacks, soft drinks and other 'fast foods'. Component 2 was characterized as 'red meat' consumption pattern. Component 3 was characterized by the consumption of vegetables, fruits and juices. Component 4 was characterized by the intake of dairy products, pasta and wholegrain bread. Component 5 can be described as rice, fish, potatoes and poultry intake. Component 6 was characterized by the consumption of 'traditional Greek cooked foods' and legumes, and component 7 was characterized by the consumption of eggs and white bread. Time spent watching television was positively associated with the 'junk food' pattern and inversely associated with the 'vegetarian/healthy' pattern. Moreover, the 'junk food' pattern was positively related to smoking status and the 'vegetarian/healthy' pattern was positively correlated with sports activities outside school. An unhealthy dietary behaviour is associated with an overall unhealthy lifestyle. Taking into account the fact that unhealthy eating habits and sedentary lifestyle have been associated with increased obesity prevalence, school- or community-based programmes should be conducted promoting healthy dietary and lifestyle behaviours.
19064301	Dye tracer studies revealed that earthworm burrows in the compacted plough pan of a Chinese paddy rice field can serve as preferential flow paths. It is, however, unclear whether the observed bypass of the compacted soil horizon might be explained by differences in hydraulic properties between the plough pan, the worm burrows with a surrounding denser drilosphere and the un-compacted subsoil, or by lower-permeable macropore walls. The objective is to separately analyse effects of the individual flow domains and to identify possible limiting factors (bottlenecks) in the flow system for better soil drainage management. Hydraulic properties are inversely estimated from in situ measurements of pressure heads and evaporation by using HYDRUS_1D code. Field data of 2D pressure head progression after dye tracer infiltration in the vicinity of worm burrows are simulated using HYDRUS_2D. The axisymmetric 2D flow model considers a highly permeable cylindrical macropore region in the centre of the flow domain, assuming Darcy's law is valid. The match between simulated and measured pressure head fields improved after including a lower-permeable drilosphere pore domain. Scenario simulations show that the inflow into the 'bypass-flow' domain are reduced by the homogenized topsoil (i.e., after puddling) and limited if the macropore domain is relatively shallow. The results suggest that basic structural features may in this concept be considered as one possibility to describe observed preferential flow patterns. The separate consideration of soil structural effects may help developing and improving management strategies for manipulation of preferential flow in soils of paddy fields.
19066966	sd1 is known as the 'green revolution' gene in rice because its application in rice breeding has dramatically increased rice yield. Since the 'green revolution,' sd1 has been extensively used to produce modern semi-dwarf varieties. The extensive use of limited dwarfing sources may, however, cause a bottleneck effect in the genetic background of rice varieties. To circumvent this problem, novel and useful sources of dwarf genes must be identified. In this study, we identified three semi-dominant dwarf mutants. These mutants were categorized as dn-type dwarf mutants according to the elongation pattern of internodes. Gibberellin (GA) response tests showed that the mutants were still responsive to GA, although at a reduced rate. Map-based cloning revealed that the dwarf phenotype in these mutants was caused by gain-of-function mutations in the N-terminal region of SLR1. Degradation of the SLR1 protein in these mutants occurred later than in the wild type. Reduced interaction abilities of the SLR1 protein in these mutants with GID1 were also observed using the yeast two-hybrid system. Crossing experiments indicated that with the use of an appropriate genetic background, the semi-dominant dwarf alleles identified in this study could be used to alleviate the deficiency of dwarfing genes for breeding applications.
19067347	Clinical magnetic resonance studies show delayed and ongoing neurodegeneration after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI), but the mechanisms and timing of this neurodegeneration remain unclear. We used ex vivo diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and brain neuropathology to determine whether selective injury to white matter tracts occurs after neonatal HI in mice resulting in neural system-associated attrition in remote regions and at delayed times. The Rice-Vannucci model (unilateral carotid ligation + 45 minutes of hypoxia FiO(2) = 0.08) was used to cause brain injury in postnatal day 7 (p7) C57BL6 mice, and ex vivo DTI and correlative neuropathology were performed at p8, p11, p15, p21, p28, and p42. DTI provides excellent contrast visualization of unmyelinated white matter in the immature mouse brain. Severe ipsilateral injury to the hippocampus is seen with both histopathology and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging 24 hours after injury. Injury to axons is evident 24 hours after HI in the hippocampal alveus. By p11 and continuing until p28, the ipsilateral fimbria fornix degenerates. At p15, there is injury and loss of axons entering the ipsilateral septal nucleus followed by ipsilateral septal atrophy. Volume loss in the hippocampus is rapid and severe, but is subacute and significantly slower in the ipsilateral septum. Neonatal HI also interrupts the normal developmental increase in fractional anisotropy in the ipsilateral fimbria but not in the contralateral fimbria from p8 to p42. In neonatal brain, there is progressive systems-preferential injury after HI. DTI allows unparalleled visualization of this neural network-associated attrition so that it can be followed longitudinally in developing brain.
19067463	The objectives of the study were to select suitable wavebands for rice leaf area index (LAI) estimation using the data acquired over a whole growing season, and to test the efficiency of the selected wavebands by comparing them with feature positions of rice canopy spectra. In this study, the field experiment in 2002 growing season was conducted at the experimental farm of Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. Measurements of hyperspectral reflectance (350 approximately 2500 nm) and corresponding LAI were made for a paddy rice canopy throughout the growing season. And three methods were employed to identify the optimal wavebands for paddy rice LAI estimation: correlation coefficient-based method, vegetation index-based method, and stepwise regression method. This research selected 15 wavebands in the region of 350~2 500 nm, which appeared to be the optimal wavebands for the paddy rice LAI estimation. Of the selected wavebands, the most frequently occurring wavebands were centered around 554, 675, 723, and 1 633 nm. They were followed by 444, 524, 576, 594, 804, 849, 974, 1 074, 1 219, 1 510, and 2 194 nm. Most of them made physical sense and had their counterparts in spectral known feature positions, which indicates the promising potential of the 15 selected wavebands for the retrieval of paddy rice LAI.
19067486	Centromeres are sites for assembly of the chromosomal structures that mediate faithful segregation at mitosis and meiosis. Plant and animal centromeres are typically located in megabase-sized arrays of tandem satellite repeats, making their precise mapping difficult. However, some rice centromeres are largely embedded in nonsatellite DNA, providing an excellent model to study centromere structure and evolution. We used chromatin immunoprecipitation and 454 sequencing to define the boundaries of nine of the 12 centromeres of rice. Centromere regions from chromosomes 8 and 9 were found to share synteny, most likely reflecting an ancient genome duplication. For four centromeres, we mapped discrete subdomains of binding by the centromeric histone variant CENH3. These subdomains were depleted in both intact and nonfunctional genes relative to interspersed subdomains lacking CENH3. The intergenic location of rice centromeric chromatin resembles the situation for human neocentromeres and supports a model of the evolution of centromeres from gene-poor regions.
19068223	Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) are effector molecules of RNA interference (RNAi), a highly conserved RNA-based gene suppression mechanism in plants, mammals and other eukaryotes. Endogenous RNAi-based gene suppression has been harnessed naturally and through conventional breeding to achieve desired plant phenotypes. The present study demonstrates that endogenous small RNAs, such as siRNAs and miRNAs, are abundant in soybean seeds, corn kernels, and rice grain, plant tissues that are traditionally used for food and feed. Numerous endogenous plant small RNAs were found to have perfect complementarity to human genes as well as those of other mammals. The abundance of endogenous small RNA molecules in grain from safely consumed food and feed crops such as soybean, corn, and rice and the homology of a number of these dietary small RNAs to human and animal genomes and transcriptomes establishes a history of safe consumption for dietary small RNAs.
19068266	Heavy metal contamination of soils resulting from mining and smelting is causing major concern due to the potential risk involved. This study was designed to investigate the heavy metal (Cu, Zn, Pb and Cd) concentrations in soils and food crops and estimate the potential health risks of metals to humans via consumption of polluted food crops grown at four villages around the Dabaoshan mine, South China. The heavy metal concentrations in paddy and garden soils exceeded the maximum allowable concentrations for Chinese agricultural soil. The paddy soil at Fandong village was heavily contaminated with Cu (703 mg kg(-1)), Zn (1100 mg kg(-1)), Pb (386 mg kg(-1)) and Cd (5.5 mg kg(-1)). Rice tended to accumulated higher Cd and Pb concentration in grain parts. The concentrations of Cd, Pb and Zn in vegetables exceeded the maximum permissible concentration in China. Taro grown at the four sampled villages accumulated high concentrations of Zn, Pb and Cd. Bio-accumulation factors for heavy metals in different vegetables showed a trend in the order: Cd>Zn>Cu>Pb. Bio-accumulation factors of heavy metals were significantly higher for leafy than for non-leafy vegetable. The target hazard quotient (THQ) of rice at four sites varied from 0.66-0.89 for Cu, 0.48-0.60 for Zn, 1.43-1.99 for Pb, and 2.61-6.25 for Cd. Estimated daily intake (EDI) and THQs for Cd and Pb of rice and vegetables exceeded the FAO/WHO permissible limit. Heavy metal contamination of food crops grown around the mine posed a great health risk to the local population through consumption of rice and vegetables.
19069515	Rice is a major worldwide crop that cultivated in the most areas of the north of Iran (Mazandaran and Gillan Province). An increase in the assortment of rice varieties is making it progressively more difficult to distinguish between the many cultivars by traditional visual identification methods. The more advanced identification techniques of electrophoresis and chromatography offer an effective solution to this emerging identification dilemma. This paper reviews the application of these two evaluation techniques. An Electrophoresis analysis includes gel electrophoresis and capillary electrophoresis and compares them with a popular chromatography technique, namely reversed-phase, size exclusion anion-exchange high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). This paper will also include an interpretation of the results.
19069523	DRAINMOD, an agricultural water management simulation model, was used to investigate the suitability of controlled drainage/subirrigation scenarios in 52 ha of northern Iran paddy fields which planted in April to September and the rest of the time being waterlogged and pounded and could not be cultivated because of high water table, low permeable top soils and unsuitable drainage systems. The model as run for 30 year climate data. Various drain depth and spacing combinations and different weir setting were simulated. Simulation results showed that the xcess soil moisture was the main factor for yield reduction and the best conditions of controlled drainage and subirrigation were obtained when the depth of weir setting was the same as drain depth and these systems acted as conventional drains. Based on results, controlled drainage and subirrigation were not suitable because of high rainfall in the region. But the conventional controlled drainage system can be used for these fields, so that in wet season the system acts like a conventional or free drainage system and in paddy rice growth periods, it operates as controlled drainage by installing a weir setting outlet drain.
19069752	A reliable bioassay procedure was developed to test ingested Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxins on the rice delphacid Tagosodes orizicolus. Initially, several colonies were established under greenhouse conditions, using rice plants to nurture the insect. For the bioassay, an in vitro feeding system was developed for third to fourth instar nymphs. Insects were fed through Parafilm membranes on sugar (10 % sucrose) and honey bee (1:48 vol/vol) solutions, observing a natural mortality of 10-15 % and 0-5 %, respectively. Results were reproducible under controlled conditions during the assay (18+/-0.1 degrees C at night and 28+/-0.1 degrees C during the day, 80 % RH and a 12:12 day:light photoperiod). In addition, natural mortality was quantified on insect colonies, collected from three different geographic areas of Costa Rica, with no significant differences between colonies under controlled conditions. Finally, bioassays were performed to evaluate the toxicity of a Bt collection on T. orizicolus. A preliminary sample of twenty-seven Bt strains was evaluated on coarse bioassays using three loops of sporulated colonies in 9 ml of liquid diet, the strains that exhibited higher percentages of T. orizicolus mortality were further analyzed in bioassays using lyophilized spores and crystals (1 mg/ml). As a result, strains 26-O-to, 40-X-m, 43-S-d and 23-O-to isolated from homopteran insects showed mortalities of 74, 96, 44 and 82% respectively while HD-137, HD-1 and Bti showed 19, 83 and 95% mortalities. Controls showed mortalities between 0 and 10% in all bioassays. This is the first report of a reliable bioassay procedure to evaluate per os toxicity for a homopteran species using Bacillus thuringiensis strains.
19069881	Seed germination and early growth of bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) seedlings were significantly reduced when irrigated with a mixture of Cu, Zn, Cd and Pb at concentrations of sewage water. Leaf content of photosynthetic pigments, carbohydrates, nucleic acids and total nitrogen also decreased. Cd and Pb significantly inhibited the activity of alpha and beta-amylases and protease enzymes during germination. Treatment of the mixture solution by precipitation, rice residue or EDTA decreased its retarding effect. The effect of precipitation was more pronounced. Whilst the lower concentration of Cu and Zn stimulated germination, growth and metabolism of bean seedling, the higher concentrations showed inhibitory effects. Even at very low concentrations of Cd and Pb germination, growth and metabolism of bean significantly decreased. Precipitation treatment alleviated the adverse effects of higher concentrations of Zn, Cu, Cd and Pb. Whilst rice residue and EDTA treatments slightly enhanced germination of seeds treated with high concentrations of Zn and Cu, they did not affect germination of seeds treated with Cd or Pb.
19069882	Nutrition elements like nitrogen and potassium are restricting yield performance of rice cultivars and affecting on their characteristics. In order to consider effects of different amount of nitrogen and potassium on yield and chemical compounds of two rice cultivars (Tarrom and Neda which are landrace and improved Iranian genotypes, respectively), current experiment has been undertaken in 2004 and 2005. Four levels of nitrogen fertilizer (0, 50, 100 and 150 kg N ha(-1) from urea source) and four levels of potassium fertilizer (0, 75, 150 and 225 kg K2O ha(-1) from potassium sulfate source) have been applied in a split-factorial based on randomized block design with three replications. Nitrogen fertilizer has been applied in three different stages of plant growth (1/3 in transplanting, 1/3 in tillering and 1/3 in flowering initial stages) and potassium fertilizer has also been applied in two growth stages (1/2 in transplanting and 1/2 in shooting stages). Results indicated that application of nitrogen has increased plant height, number of tiller, length and width of flag leaf, length of panicle, number of grain per panicle, grain yield, amount of dry matter, biological yield, harvest index, leaf potassium, leaf nitrogen, 1000 grain weight and reducing percentage of hallow grain. Also, applied potassium has positive effects on all of above mentioned yield components except harvest index and 1000 grain yield. Neda cultivar was better than Tarrom genotype for most of the measured traits. Interaction of nitrogen and potassium were affected significantly on number of tiller per plant, grain yield, amount of dry matter and biological yield in Neda cultivar and on length of flag leaf, number of grain per panicle, grain yield, amount of dry matter, biological yield, harvest index and 1000 grain yield in Tarrom genotype.
19069951	In the present study, we investigated on the experimental host range of RYMV among plant species most of which are frequently encountered in rice-growing environments of west and central African savannahs. Only seven out of 66 plant species inoculated were infected by RYMV. All susceptible plant species belonged to the Poaceae family and three of them (Chloris prieuri, Eragrostis cilianensis and Shoenefeldia gracilis) were reported for the first time. Symptoms were conspicuous and persistent in most species but disappeared totally in older plants of some host species such as S. gracilis and Eragrostis tenella. Therefore, surveys for identification ofRYMV wild hosts should be conducted before the flowering stage. Virus-host Interactions were studied between 15 RYMV isolates of different strains and 10 wild host species. Differential reactions were obtained in the crow-foot grass Dactyloctenium aegyptium which was susceptible to five of the fifteen isolates. All other plants were susceptible to the whole set of virus isolates. Altogether, this study underlined the narrowness of RYMV host range and pointed out the complexity of interactions between the virus and its hosts, especially the rationale behind overcoming host barriers.
19069953	Nitrogen and potassium are the yield-limiting nutrients in rice production regions of Iran. Use of N and K efficient cultivars is an important complementary strategy in improving rice yield, increasing the quality properties of rice grains and reducing cost of production. In order to consider the effects of different amounts of N and K application on rice (Oryza sativa L.) yield and yield components in pot and field conditions these experiments were undertaken in 2004 at Sari Agricultural Station, Iran. Four levels of N (0, 50, 100 and 150 Kg N ha(-1) in field and 0, 0.6, 1.2 and 1.8 g N pot(-1) in pot) corresponding with four levels of K (0, 75, 150 and 225 kg K2O ha(-1) in field and 0, 0.5, 1 and 1.5 g K2O pot(-1) in pot) were applied in a split-factorial plot design with three replications in both pot and field experiments, variously. Grain yield, number of grain per panicle, number of tiller, plant height, length of flag leaf, total and shoot dry matter, 1000 grain weight and harvest index have been increased by N application in field conditions. However, in pot conditions grain yield, number of grain per panicle, number of tiller, plant height, width of flag leaf, total and shoot dry matter, leaf nitrogen contents and harvest index have significantly been increased (p < or = 0.05). Potassium application in field conditions has significantly affected on all characteristics but 1000 grain weight and leaf N and K contents. Simultaneous application of N and K have increasingly affected on grain yield, plant height, shoot dry matter and harvest index in field conditions and on plant height, length of flag leaf and shoot dry matter in pot conditions (p < or = 0.05).
19070001	This study is a part of rice cultivar development program in north of Iran with the aim of yield potential increase and attention to eating quality. Thirteen lines developed from the crosses between high yielding cultivars with aromatic low yield ones based on pedigree breeding method. These lines along with two controls (Neda and Sang-e-Tarom) were evaluated for agronomic and quality traits in a randomized complete block design during 2005. Farm and laboratory tests showed that lines 33-DN-1, 33-DN-18 and 32-DN-6 were superior in yield (more than 5.5 t ha(-1)) and had suitable eating quality in comparison with Sang-e-tarom as a local control.
19070021	A field experiment was conducted during 2004-05 on wheat and rice to study the response of Zinc application in wheat-rice system. Two levels of zinc 5 and 10 kg ha(-1) with control were studied with the basal dose of N, P2O5, K2O as 120-90-60 kg ha(-1) in the form of urea, TSP, SOP and zinc sulphate during both the crops. Wheat variety Naseer 2000 and rice variety IRRI 6, both were planted in R.C.B design with three replications. Zn application, significantly affected wheat grain yield, ranged from 2.7 to 3.5 t ha(-1), giving highest increase of 31.6% over control from 5 kg Zn ha(-1). The number of tillers, spike m(-2), spike length, plant height and 1000 grain weight of wheat were also significantly affected over control with the same treatment. Paddy yield was also significantly affected by Zn levels ranged from 3.9 to 5.9 t ha(-1). The highest yield was obtained from 10 kg Zn ha(-1) each applied to both crops. Similarly Zn application also affected significantly to the yield parameters of rice like the number of spike m(-2), number of spike/plant, spike length, plant height and 1000 grain weight over control from the above said treatment of 10 kg Zn ha(-1). The concentration of zinc in soil and leaves was significantly affected by the application of zinc in wheat and rice, ranged from 0.47-1.37, 22.6-367.37 mg kg(-1) in wheat and 0.45-1.18; 29.32-40.67 mg kg(-1) in rice, respectively (soil and leaves). The highest concentration in soil and leaves was recorded by the cumulative application of 10 kg Zn ha(-1) while lowest from control. The direct application of 5 and 10 kg Zn ha(-1) gave an increase of 39 and 45% while residual effect 30.0 and 43.0%, cumulative effect of 38 and 50% over control, respectively. The residual application of 10 kg Zn ha(-1) can be recommended for economical production in wheat rice system.
19070026	Thailand and Lao PDR are the country's rich rice diversity. To contribute a significant knowledge for development new rice varieties, a collection of 142 black rice (Oryza sativa) accessions were determined for variation of physico-chemical properties, Wx microsatellite allele, Wx allele and chloroplast DNA type. The results showed that amylose content of black rice accessions were ranged from 1.9 to 6.8%. All of the alkali disintegration types (high, intermediate and low) was observed in these rice with average of 1.75 on the 1-3 digestibility scale. The unique Wx microsatellite allele (CT)17 was found in these samples and all black rice strains carried Wx(b) allele. In addition, all black rice accessions were found the duplication of the 23 bp sequence motif in the exon 2 of the wx gene. This evidence is a common phenomenon in glutinous rice. Based on two growing condition for black rice, rainfed lowland and rainfed upland, chloroplast DNA type was distinct from each other. All rice strains from rainfed lowland was deletion plastotype, but all other rainfed upland strains were non-deletion types.
19070078	In this study, many indexes correlated with drought resistance including yield components, chlorophyll content, the content of proline, the content of malondiadehyde (MDA), the activity of superoxide dismatase (SOD), the content of peroxides (POD) and catalase (CAT) activity soluble protein content and leaf area in flag leaves were measured under water stress after flowering in five rice backcross combinations. The indexes for drought resistance were screened by the correlation and the gray relationship analysis, under water stress after flowering. The results indicated that after flowering, rate of seeds fertilization was significantly correlated with yield remarkably. And proline content, MDA content in flag leaf and leaf areas were significantly influenced with drought resistance in rice, which indicated that it is feasible to predict the drought resistance in rice after flowering. According to the gray relationship analysis, ability of drought resistance in five rice backcross combinations is the following, the combination 5 > combination 1 > combination 4 > combination 3 > combination 2. Results were generally consistent with the performance in field, which indicated that it is reasonable to predict the drought resistance in rice after flowering with the four indexes screened out in this study.
19070083	In order to investigating the effects of second crop cultivation on growth, yield and yield components of rice, a field experiment was conducted at the Rice Research Institute of Iran-Deputy of Mazandaran (Amol) during 2004 and 2005. Tarom as a traditional variety and Fajr as a improved variety were used in this research. Faba, pea, Lettuce and garlic were used as a second crop in rotation with rice. Second crop cultivation, variety and interaction between them had a significant effect on tiller number at 0.01 probability level. Results showed that rice yield after lettuce and garlic rotation was lower than with Faba bean, pea and fallow rotation. These results indicated that rice varieties had different reaction to second crop cultivation. For example, Tarom variety in rotation with lettuce and garlic had higher yield deficiency than Fajr variety. These results suggested that Lettuce and garlic can not be a permanent second crop in paddy field. According to results, pea and faba bean in rotation with rice for the best performance of yield attributes of rice varieties were recommended.
19070114	This study was carried out to test the potentially of using rice straw substrate for the cultivation of four Pleurotus species including Pleurotus florida, Pleurotus djamor, Pleurotus sajor-caju and Pleurotus ostreatus and the effect of these species on the chemical composition, cell wall degradation and digestibility of rice straw. Rice straw soaked in water for 24 h and then it was pasteurized at 100 degrees C for 6 h. Rice straw was inoculated with spawns of four Pleurotus fungi (Pleurotus florida, Pleurotus djamor, Pleurotus sajor-caju and Pleurotus ostreatus) and packed in the plastic bags and incubated in a fermentation chamber at 23-27 degrees C and 75-85% relative humidity. After 60th day, rice straw samples from all groups were taken and analyzed for chemical composition and in vitro digestibility. The data obtained were analyzed according to the complete randomized design model consisting of four treatments plus one control and four replicates. The results of this study showed that fungal treatment increased (p<0.05) the Crude Protein (CP), silica, Ca and P contents of the rice straw but the hemicellulose, Organic Matter (OM), Acid Detergent Fiber (ADF), Neutral Detergent Fiber (NDF) and Acid Detergent Lignin (ADL) contents decreased. However, the ability of the fungi to degrade these components varied among the species. The ability of Pleurotus sajor-caju and Pleurotus ostreatus were higher than the other species in decreasing the hemicellulose, NDF, ADF and ADL contents. The highest Biological Efficiency (BE) was produced by sajor-caju species with 56.02 and the lowest was belong to Pleurotus djamor species with an average 51.17%. All species of fungi incubated on rice straw showed increased (p<0.05) the in vitro dry mater and organic matter digestibility. Rice straw treated with sajor-caju fungus had the highest in vitro dry matter digestibility (IVDMD) and in vitro organic matter digestibility (IVOMD) with 80.10 and 82.18%, respectively. In general this experiment cleared that treatment with sajor-caju can improve the quality of rice straw to be useful feed for ruminant nutrition.
19070122	The identification of a number of cDNA sequences at the splice sites of Waxy (Wx) gene in rice endosperm point to the variation of gene expression associated with the G to T mutation at the 5' splice site of intron 1 and the alternative splicing produces variants transcripts by shortening. As consequence, variation of amylose content in this tissue. To determine whether the splicing type of Wx genes are also found in rice endosperm of Thai rice cultivars, cDNA of the gene have been isolated by using RT-PCR and sequenced. Analysis of the twenty-five cDNA clones led to the identification of the splicing pattern of the gene, four cryptic splice sites was found in cDNA sequences of low-amylose cultivars (<20%), while two cryptic splice sites of intermediate (20-25%) and high (>25%) amylose cultivars were characterized. The alternatively spliced transcripts were observed in much higher proportion in low amylose cultivars than that in intermediate and high amylose cultivars. These findings raise a possibility explanation that the degree of amylose content in non-glutinous rice cultivars may reflect to the amount of efficiently spliced transcripts.
19070163	Saline sodic soils after reclamation become infertile due to leaching of most of the nutrients along with salts from the rooting medium. Microbes can play a vital role in the productivity improvement of such soils. In this study a saline sodic field having EC, 6.5 dS m(-1), pH, 9.1 and gypsum requirement (GR) 3.5 tons acre(-1) was reclaimed by applying gypsum at the rate of 100% GR. Rice and wheat crops were transplanted/sown for three consecutive years. Inorganic nitrogenous fertilizer was used with and without biofertilizers i.e., Biopower (Azospirillum) for rice and diazotroph inoculums for wheat. Nitrogen was applied at the rate of 0, 75% of recommended dose (RD), RD, 125% of RD and 150% of RD. Recommended dose of P without K was applied to all the plots. Biopower significantly improved Paddy and straw yield of rice over inorganic nitrogenous fertilizer. In case of wheat diazotroph inoculum improved grain and straw yield significantly over inorganic nitrogenous fertilizer. Among N fertilizer rates, RD + 25% additional N fertilizer was found to be the best dose for rice and wheat production in recently reclaimed soils. Nitrogen concentration and its uptake by paddy, grain and straw were also increased by biopower and diazotroph inoculum over inorganic nitrogenous fertilizer. Among N fertilizer rates, RD + 25% additional N fertilizer was found to be the best dose for nitrogen concentration and its uptake by paddy, grain and straw. Total soil N, available P and extractable K were increased while salinity/sodicity parameters were decreased with the passage of time. The productivity of the soil was improved more by biofertilizers over inorganic N fertilizers.
19070168	Aim of this study to review information on various aspects of P fertilization in rice i.e., P nutrition of rice, P response of rice plant, P availability in rice soils and P adsorption in rice soils for better understanding of P fertilization in rice culture. A substantial portion of the applied P along with the soil P is lost from rice fields to water bodies causing environmental pollution problems through eutrophication. These pollution problems can be minimized by using proper source of P as fertilizer, proper timing and methods of P fertilizer application, soil P management, transport management, use of plant growth promoting microorganisms which helps in efficient use of P by crops and use of green manure crops which improves soil fertility as well as helps in efficient use of P by crops.
19071198	Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) superfamily represents a group of NAD(P)(+)-dependent enzymes that catalyze the oxidation of endogenous and exogenous aldehydes to the corresponding carboxylic acids. A total of twenty ALDH genes were identified in the rice genome. They were grouped into 10 distinct families based on protein sequence identity. The whole genome duplication (WGD) predating the divergence of cereals and tandem duplications represent the major mechanism for this superfamily expansion. Intron loss was found to accompany the recent evolution of four rice ALDH families. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that some of the rice ALDH genes were expressed in an organ-specific manner. Microarray data analysis indicated that expression of most duplicated rice ALDH genes showed high tissue specificities. Diverse expression patterns for duplicated genes were evaluated using both microarray and MPSS data. Expression levels of some ALDH genes were up-regulated by drought and high salinity stresses and the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) application, indicating that the products of these genes were potentially involved in rice osmotic stress adaptation. These results suggested that the specific rice ALDH genes might be potentially useful in rice genetic improvement.
19071208	Recent completion of rice genome sequencing has revealed that more than 40% of its genome consists of repetitive sequences, and most of them are related to inactive transposable elements. In the present study, a transposable element, nDaiZ0, which is induced by tissue culture with high frequency, was identified by sequence analysis of an allelic line of the golden hull and internode 2 (gh2) mutant, which was integrated into the forth exon of GH2. The 528-bp nDaiZ0 has 14-bp terminal inverted repeats (TIRs), and generates an 8-bp duplication of its target sites (TSD) during its mobilization. nDaiZs are non-autonomous transposons and have no coding capacity. Bioinformatics analysis and southern blot hybridization showed that at least 16 copies of nDaiZ elements exist in the japonica cultivar Nipponbare genome and 11 copies in the indica cultivar 93-11 genome. During tissue culture, only one copy, nDaiZ9, located on chromosome 5 in the genome of Nipponbare can be activated with its transposable frequency reaching 30%. However, nDaiZ9 was not present in the 93-11 genome. The larger elements, DaiZs, were further identified by database searching using nDaiZ0 as a query because they share similar TIRs and subterminal sequences. DaiZ can also generate an 8-bp TSD. DaiZ elements contain a conserved region with a high similarity to the hAT dimerization motif, suggesting that the nDaiZ-DaiZ transposon system probably belongs to the hAT superfamily of class II transposons. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that it is a new type of plant hAT-like transposon. Although nDaiZ is activated by tissue culture, the high transposable frequency indicates that it could become a useful gene tagging system for rice functional genomic studies. In addition, the mechanism of the high transposable ability of nDaiZ9 is discussed.
19071460	A simple solid phase extraction procedure for speciation of selenium(IV) and selenium(VI) in environmental samples has been proposed prior to graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry. The method is based on the solid phase extraction of the selenium(IV)-ammonium pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (APDC) chelate on the Diaion HP-2MG. After reduction of Se(VI) by heating the samples in the microwave oven with 4moll(-1) HCl, the system was applied to the total selenium. Se(VI) was calculated as the difference between the total selenium content and Se(IV) content. The experimental parameters, pH, amounts of reagents, eluent type and sample volume were optimized. The recoveries of analytes were found greater than 95%. No appreciable matrix effects were observed. The adsorption capacity of sorbent was 5.20mgg(-1) Se (IV). The detection limit of Se (IV) (3sigma, n=11) is 0.010mugl(-1). The preconcentration factor for the presented system was 100. The proposed method was applied to the speciation of selenium(IV), selenium(VI) and determination of total selenium in natural waters and microwave digested soil, garlic, onion, rice, wheat and hazelnut samples harvested various locations in Turkey with satisfactory results. In order to verify the accuracy of the method, certified reference materials (NIST SRM 2711 Montana Soil, NIST SRM 1568a Rice Flour and NIST SRM 8418 Wheat Gluten) were analyzed and the results obtained were in good agreement with the certified values. The relative errors and relative standard deviations were below 6 and 10%, respectively.
19071662	Singlet oxygen was generated by reaction of sodium hypochlorite and hydrogen peroxide in a micro-channel. The two reagent solutions were delivered into the micro-channel by a syringe pump, providing a laminar flow liquid-liquid interface. The chemiluminescence from the singlet oxygen was emitted in the collapse of the interface due to molecular diffusion under laminar flow conditions. The chemiluminescence intensity was observed continuously and stably for each combination of reagents fed into the micro-channel; while, in the normal batch-type reactor the chemiluminescence peaks from singlet oxygen were observed within ca. 5s. The features of the chemiluminescence emitted under laminar flow conditions were examined by changing the concentrations of sodium hypochlorite and hydrogen peroxide; the concentrations of 2.5mM sodium hypochlorite and 7.5mM hydrogen peroxide provided highest chemiluminescence intensities without bubble formation. Also, the effects of beverages, such as green tea, coffee, white wine, red wine, and sake (rice wine), on the chemiluminescence intensity as well as the concentrations of sodium hypochlorite and hydrogen peroxide were examined. The chemiluminescence intensities observed with addition of the beverages to the reagents decreased in the following orders; green tea>coffee>red wine>rice wine>white wine (being added to sodium hypochlorite); coffee>white wine>green tea>red wine>rice wine (being added to hydrogen peroxide). It was found that coffee decreased the chemiluminescence intensity (ca. 33% chemiluminescence decrease) without altering the concentrations of sodium hypochlorite or hydrogen peroxide. The cause of the decrease in chemiluminescence with coffee is discussed.
19071920	Ab initio coupled clusters and multireference perturbation theory calculations with geometry optimization at the density functional or complete active space self-consistent-field levels have been carried out to compute ionization energies and to unravel the dissociation mechanism of allene and propyne cations, C(3)H(4)(n+) (n=1-3). The results indicate that the dominant decomposition channel of the monocation is c-C(3)H(3)(+) + H, endothermic by 37.9 kcal/mol and occurring via a barrier of 43.1 kcal/mol, with possible minor contributions from H(2)CCCH(+) + H and HCCCH(+) + H(2). For the dication, the competing reaction channels are predicted to be c-C(3)H(3)(+) + H(+), H(2)CCCH(+) + H(+), and CCCH(+) + H(3)(+), with dissociation energies of -20.5, 8.5, and 3.0 kcal/mol, respectively. The calculations reveal a H(2)-roaming mechanism for the H(3)(+) loss, where a neutral H(2) fragment is formed first, then roams around and abstracts a proton from the remaining molecular fragment before leaving the dication. According to Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations of energy-dependent rate constants for individual reaction steps, relative product yields vary with the available internal energy, with c-C(3)H(3)(+) + H(+) being the major product just above the dissociation threshold of 69.6 kcal/mol, in the energy range of 70-75 kcal/mol, and CCCH(+) + H(3)(+) taking over at higher energies. The C(3)H(4)(3+) trication is found to be not very stable, with dissociation thresholds of 18.5 and 3.7 kcal/mol for allene and propyne, respectively. Various products of Coulomb explosion of C(3)H(4)(3+), H(2)CCCH(2+) + H(+), CHCHCH(2+) + H(+), C(2)H(2)(2+) + CH(2)(+), and CCH(2)(2+) + CH(2)(+) are highly exothermic (by 98-185 kcal/mol). The tetracation of C(3)H(4) is concluded to be unstable and therefore no more than three electrons can be removed from this molecule before it falls apart. The theoretical results are compared to experimental observations of Coulomb explosions of allene and propyne.
19073239	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous single-stranded non-coding small RNAs with a length of about 21 nt, that negatively regulate development and stresses. Rice miRNAs are representative of the monocot miRNAs, and many of them are non-conserved in Arabidopsis and the other plant species. Previous studies have shown that a majority of plant miRNAs are expressed from independent transcription units, whereas some others are transcribed with their host genes. Despite of the fact that a growing number of rice miRNAs are discovered, little is known about the transcriptional regulation of miRNA genes. In this study, we performed genomic analysis of rice miRNA transcripts surrounding the regions of promoter/transcription start site (TSS) and TATA-box, and organization of miRNA clusters. We detected 249 promoters for 212 rice pre-miRNA sequences via bioinformatics approach and found that the conserved rice miRNA genes have a greater proportion of promoters than the non-conserved miRNA genes. We further globally analyzed the genomic organization of pri-miRNAs and found that 52 rice miRNA genes appear in 18 clusters. Alignment of the miRNA sequences in these clusters shows a number of miRNA paralogs within the cluster. The data obtained may aid our understanding of the specific sequences upstream of pre-miRNAs and the functional implications of miRNA clusters in rice plants.
19073546	Wild rice is the closely related wild relatives of cultivated rice. Wild rice provides natural genetic germplasm resources for improving cultivated rice varieties as it possesses many desirable traits and favorable genes, many of which, such as resistance to diseases and insect pests, tolerance to different kinds of stresses and its cytoplasmic male sterility, have been widely used in cultivated rice breeding. In this paper, favorable traits of wild rice germplasm resources and the related genes were summarized, and their utilization potential in rice breeding were also discussed.
1907420	1. As rice bran fibre binds Kanechlor 600 (PCB), the present study was conducted to determine whether the fibre stimulates rat faecal excretion of PCB in vivo. 2. In rats fed diets containing rice bran fibre, lignin and cholestyramine, the faecal excretion of PCB was increased. Total PCB excreted in rat faeces for groups fed diets of 10% (w/w) rice bran fibre, 10% fibre plus 5% lignin, 5% cholestyramine and 10% fibre plus 5% cholestyramine were 3.4, 3.7, 2.2 and 5.4 times as much, respectively, as that of control rats. The greatest effect on the faecal excretion of PCB was thus obtained with rice bran fibre plus cholestyramine. 3. In rats fed these diets, PCB concentration of the small intestine was significantly decreased to 25-50% of that of controls. PCB of spleen in rats fed diets of 10% fibre, 10% fibre plus 5% lignin and 10% fibre plus 5% cholestyramine also decreased to 50% of that of controls. However, PCB of other tissues were not affected.
19074278	The initiation of intracellular infection of legume roots by symbiotic rhizobia bacteria and arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) fungi is preceded by the induction of calcium signatures in and around the nucleus of root epidermal cells. Although a calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase (CCaMK) is a key mediator of symbiotic root responses, the decoding of the calcium signal and the molecular events downstream are only poorly understood. Here, we characterize Lotus japonicus cyclops mutants on which microbial infection was severely inhibited. In contrast, nodule organogenesis was initiated in response to rhizobia, but arrested prematurely. This arrest was overcome when a deregulated CCaMK mutant version was introduced into cyclops mutants, conferring the development of full-sized, spontaneous nodules. Because cyclops mutants block symbiotic infection but are competent for nodule development, they reveal a bifurcation of signal transduction downstream of CCaMK. We identified CYCLOPS by positional cloning. CYCLOPS carries a functional nuclear localization signal and a predicted coiled-coil domain. We observed colocalization and physical interaction between CCaMK and CYCLOPS in plant and yeast cell nuclei in the absence of symbiotic stimulation. Importantly, CYCLOPS is a phosphorylation substrate of CCaMK in vitro. Cyclops mutants of rice were impaired in AM, and rice CYCLOPS could restore symbiosis in Lotus cyclops mutants, indicating a functional conservation across angiosperms. Our results suggest that CYCLOPS forms an ancient, preassembled signal transduction complex with CCaMK that is specifically required for infection, whereas organogenesis likely requires additional yet-to-be identified CCaMK interactors or substrates.
19074628	Transcriptome and metabolite profiling of rice (Oryza sativa) embryo tissue during a detailed time course formed a foundation for examining transcriptional and posttranscriptional processes during germination. One hour after imbibition (HAI), independent of changes in transcript levels, rapid changes in metabolism occurred, including increases in hexose phosphates, tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates, and gamma-aminobutyric acid. Later changes in the metabolome, including those involved in carbohydrate, amino acid, and cell wall metabolism, appeared to be driven by increases in transcript levels, given that the large group (over 6,000 transcripts) observed to increase from 12 HAI were enriched in metabolic functional categories. Analysis of transcripts encoding proteins located in the organelles of primary metabolism revealed that for the mitochondrial gene set, a greater proportion of transcripts peaked early, at 1 or 3 HAI, compared with the plastid set, and notably, many of these transcripts encoded proteins involved in transport functions. One group of over 2,000 transcripts displayed a unique expression pattern beginning with low levels in dry seeds, followed by a peak in expression levels at 1 or 3 HAI, before markedly declining at later time points. This group was enriched in transcription factors and signal transduction components. A subset of these transiently expressed transcription factors were further interrogated across publicly available rice array data, indicating that some were only expressed during the germination process. Analysis of the 1-kb upstream regions of transcripts displaying similar changes in abundance identified a variety of common sequence motifs, potential binding sites for transcription factors. Additionally, newly synthesized transcripts peaking at 3 HAI displayed a significant enrichment of sequence elements in the 3' untranslated region that have been previously associated with RNA instability. Overall, these analyses reveal that during rice germination, an immediate change in some metabolite levels is followed by a two-step, large-scale rearrangement of the transcriptome that is mediated by RNA synthesis and degradation and is accompanied by later changes in metabolite levels.
19075818	Expression of plant proteins in E. coli is frequently unsuccessful, but soluble and functional rice catalase-B can be produced in E. coli when it is co-expressed with the chaperone GroEL/ES. The rice catalase exhibited properties typical for a catalase including the decomposition of H(2)O(2) and inhibition by aminotriazole, a specific inhibitor for plant and animal catalases. This achievement records for first time the successful expression of a both native and variant rice plant catalase in bacterial cytosol suggesting that it may be an option to be considered for the expression of other plant proteins in E. coli.
19077169	When completely submerged, the leaves of some species retain a surface gas film. Leaf gas films on submerged plants have recently been termed 'plant plastrons', analogous with the plastrons of aquatic insects. In aquatic insects, surface gas layers (i.e. plastrons) enlarge the gas-water interface to promote O₂ uptake when under water; however, the function of leaf gas films has rarely been considered. The present study demonstrates that gas films on leaves of completely submerged rice facilitate entry of O₂ from floodwaters when in darkness and CO₂ entry when in light. O₂ microprofiles showed that the improved gas exchange was not caused by differences in diffusive boundary layers adjacent to submerged leaves with or without gas films; instead, reduced resistance to gas exchange was probably due to the enlarged water-gas interface (cf. aquatic insects). When gas films were removed artificially, underwater net photosynthesis declined to only 20% of the rate with gas films present, such that, after 7 days of complete submergence, tissue sugar levels declined, and both shoot and root growth were reduced. Internal aeration of roots in anoxic medium, when shoots were in aerobic floodwater in darkness or when in light, was improved considerably when leaf gas films were present. Thus, leaf gas films contribute to the submergence tolerance of rice, in addition to those traits already recognized, such as the shoot-elongation response, aerenchyma and metabolic adjustments to O₂ deficiency and oxidative stress.
19079537	Aflatoxins are toxic fungal metabolites enable to contaminate a wide range of natural substrates. This contamination can be host-specific for different plant species. In this study, the ability of a toxigenic Aspergillus parasiticus to produce various aflatoxins on major Iranian cereals was evaluated with special focus on plant susceptibility to toxin production at cultivar level. Aspergillus parasiticus cultured on major Iranian cereal cultivars and some selected spices was incubated in shaking condition at 28 masculineC for 6 days. The concentration of aflatoxins B1 and total (B1, B2, G1 and G2) was measured by thin layer chromatography. The amounts of aflatoxin B1 produced on maize, wheat and rice cultivars were in the ranges of 1.0-33.9, 41.9-193.7, and 39.1-82.3 microg/g fungal weight, respectively. Interestingly, genetically modified Bacillus thuringiensis rice (GM rice) of Tarom Molaii cultivar examined for the first time in this study showed less susceptibility to aflatoxin production in comparison with its normal counterpart (P less than 0.05). The mean of aflatoxin production on maize cultivars was less than both wheat and rice cultivars that indicates considerable resistance of maize to aflatoxin compared with two other cereals. Unlike to Cuminum cyminum, both Helianthus annuus and Carum carvi seeds were highly resistant to aflatoxin production. These results indicate that inter- and intra-species differences exist in susceptibility of the major Iranian cereals as well as spices tested to A. parasiticus growth and aflatoxin production. Further studies are recommended to determine resistance markers of selected cultivars of Iranian cereals.
19081011	To address some concerns about the expansion of genetically engineered pharmaceutical and industrial crops to outdoor plantings and potential impacts on the human food supply, we determined whether commercial agriculture seeds of maize or corn Zea mays L., barley Hordeum vulgare L., safflower Carthamus tinctorius L. and rice Oryza sativa L. are digested or pass viably through the digestive tract, or are transported externally, by captive mallard ducks Anas platyrhynchos L., ring-necked pheasants Phasianus colchicus L., red-winged blackbirds Agelaius phoeniceus (L.) and rock pigeons Columba livia Gmelin (with the exception of whole maize seeds which were too large to feed to the blackbirds). These crop seeds, whether free-fed or force-fed, did not pass through the digestive tract of these bird species. The birds nonetheless did retain viable seeds in the esophagus/crop and gizzard for several hours. For example, after foraging for 6 h, mallards had retained an average of 228 +/- 112 barley seeds and pheasants 192 +/- 78 in the esophagus/crop, and their germination rates were 93 and 50%, respectively. Birds externally transported seeds away from the feeding location, but in only four instances were seeds found attached to their muddy feet or legs and in no case to feathers. Risk of such crop seeds germinating, establishing and reproducing off site after transport by a bird (externally or internally) or movement of a carcass by a predator, will depend greatly on the crop and bird species, location, environmental conditions (including soil characteristics), timing, and seed condition.
19081140	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a novel class of short, endogenous non-coding small RNAs that have the ability to base pair with their target mRNAs to repress their translation or induce their degradation in both plants and animals. To identify heavy metal stress-regulated novel miRNAs, we constructed a library of small RNAs from rice seedlings that were exposed to toxic levels of cadmium (Cd(2+)). Sequencing of the library and subsequent analysis revealed 19 new miRNAs representing six families. These cloned new rice miRNAs have sequence conservation neither in Arabidopsis nor in any other species. Most of the new rice miRNAs were up- or down-regulated in response to the metal exposure. On the base of sequence complementarity, a total of 34 miRNA targets were predicted, of which 23 targets are functionally annotated and the other 11 records belong to unknown proteins. Some predicted targets of miRNAs are associated with the regulation of the response to heavy metal-induced stresses. In addition to the new miRNAs, we detected nine previously reported miRNAs and 56 other novel endogenous small RNAs in rice. These findings suggest that the number of new miRNAs in rice is unsaturated and some of them may play critical roles in plant responses to environmental stresses.
19082644	Combination of physical and chemical mutagenesis was used to isolate hyper secretory strains of Aspergillus niger NCIM 563 for phytase production. Phytase activity of mutant N-1 and N-79 was about 17 and 47% higher than the parent strain. In shake flask the productivity of phytase in parent, mutant N-1 and N-79 was 6,181, 7,619 and 9,523 IU/L per day, respectively. Up scaling of the fermentation from shake flask to 3 and 14 L New Brunswick fermenter was studied. After optimizing various fermentation parameters like aeration, agitation and carbon source in fermentation medium the fermentation time to achieve highest phytase activity was reduced considerably from 14 days in shake flask to 8 days in 14 L fermenter. Highest phytase activity of 80 IU/ml was obtained in 1% rice bran-3.5% glucose containing medium with aeration 0.2 vvm and agitation 550 rpm at room temperature on 8th day of fermentation. Addition of either bavistin (0.1%), penicillin (0.1%), formalin (0.2%) and sodium chloride (10%) in fermented broth were effective in retaining 100% phytase activity for 8 days at room temperature while these reagents along with methanol (50%) and ethanol (50%) confer 100% stability of phytase activity at 4 degrees C till 20 days. Among various carriers used for application of phytase in feed, wheat bran and rice bran were superior to silica and calcium carbonate. Thermo stabilization studies indicate 100% protection of phytase activity in presence of 12% skim milk at 70 degrees C, which will be useful for its spray drying.
19082866	A chlorpyrifos-methyl (CM) degrading bacterium (designated strain KR100) was isolated from a Korean rice paddy soil and was further tested for its sensitivity against eight commercial antibiotics. Based on morphological, biochemical, and molecular characteristics, this bacterium showed greatest similarity to members of the order Burkholderiales and was shown to be most closely related to members of the Burkholderia cepacia group. Strain KR100 hydrolyzed CM to 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP) and utilized TCP as the sole source of carbon for its growth. The isolate was also able to degrade chlorpyrifos, dimethoate, fenitrothion, malathion, and monocrotophos at 300 microg/ml but diazinon, dicrotophos, parathion, and parathion-methyl at 100 microg/ml. The ability to degrade CM was found to be encoded on a single plasmid of approximately 50 kb, pKR1. Genes encoding resistance to amphotericin B, polymixin B sulfate, and tetracycline were also located on the plasmid. This bacterium merits further study as a potential biological agent for the remediation of soil, water, or crop contaminated with organophosphorus compounds because of its greater biodegradation activity and its broad specificity against a range of organophosphorus insecticides.
19083390	The physiologic consequences of using white rice or mixed rice were evaluated in overweight Korean women (body mass index > or = 25 kg/m(2)) over a period of 6 weeks. Forty women between 20 and 35 years of age were randomly divided into 2 groups who consumed 1 of 2 low-energy meal replacements containing either white rice (WR group) or mixture of brown rice and black rice (BRBL group). The subjects were not allowed to have any food other than the low-energy meal replacement 3 times a day and snacks provided by the researcher. The changes in anthropometric indices and blood parameters such as lipid levels and antioxidant activities were measured every 3 weeks during the dietary intervention. The subjects showed a significant reduction in weight, body mass index, and body fat (%) during the experimental period, with the BRBL group exhibiting levels of all 3 parameters significantly lower than those of the WR group (P < .05). The levels of total cholesterol and triacylglycerols decreased gradually and significantly after intervention in both groups, with no significant difference between groups. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol was significantly elevated in the BRBL group but not in the WR group. Superoxide dismutase activity was not affected by dietary intervention, but glutathione peroxidase activity in the BRBL group was higher than in the WR group, and the level of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance was lower in the BRBL group compared to the WR group. In conclusion, meal replacement with mixed rice was superior to replacement with white rice in weight control, improving antioxidant enzyme activity, and as such, should be recommended for diet therapy in obese women.
19083498	The objective of this study was to test meat and fortified-food combinations to identify those that optimize iron uptake in an in vitro digestion/Caco-2 cell model, a proxy for iron bioavailability. Four experiments tested combinations of meats such as chicken (blood, spleen, liver, thigh), beef (cube steak), and fish (whole-fish meal) with iron-fortified foods (rice cereal, maize-soy flour, wheat flour). Chicken liver, thigh, spleen, blood, or fish meal increased the Caco-2 cell iron uptake from these combined with rice cereal (P< .05). Chicken liver, thigh, blood, and beef increased the Caco-2 cell iron uptake from these combined with wheat flour (P< .05). Chicken liver and thigh were tested further. Compared with the liver or thigh alone, adding fortified foods to these meats did not increase the Caco-2 cell iron uptake (P >or= .05). Adding either meat to the 3 fortified foods increased the Caco-2 cell iron uptake of the fortified foods (P< .05). Chicken liver, chicken thigh, and wheat flour were selected for an infant porridge because the combinations with the highest Caco-2 cell iron uptake were chicken thigh + wheat flour, chicken liver + wheat flour, and chicken liver + maize-soy flour, and wheat flour was the least expensive fortified food sold in the target population. Per unit of iron, the chicken thigh + wheat flour and chicken liver + wheat flour combinations resulted in the highest bioavailable iron. In the proportion of 3:1 fortified food:meat examined, meat increases the bioavailability of iron-fortified foods, but iron-fortified foods do not enhance total iron bioavailability when added to meat.
19084081	The UniProt knowledgebase, UniProtKB, is the main product of the UniProt consortium. It consists of two sections, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot, the manually curated section, and UniProtKB/TrEMBL, the computer translation of the EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ nucleotide sequence database. Taken together, these two sections cover all the proteins characterized or inferred from all publicly available nucleotide sequences. The Plant Proteome Annotation Program (PPAP) of UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot focuses on the manual annotation of plant-specific proteins and protein families. Our major effort is currently directed towards the two model plants Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. In UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot, redundancy is minimized by merging all data from different sources in a single entry. The proposed protein sequence is frequently modified after comparison with ESTs, full length transcripts or homologous proteins from other species. The information present in manually curated entries allows the reconstruction of all described isoforms. The annotation also includes proteomics data such as PTM and protein identification MS experimental results. UniProtKB and the other products of the UniProt consortium are accessible online at www.uniprot.org.
19086183	Striga hermonthica is a root hemiparasite of cereals that causes devastating loss of yield. Recently, a rice cultivar, Nipponbare, was discovered, which exhibits post-attachment resistance to this parasite and quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with the resistance were identified. Changes in gene expression in susceptible (IAC 165) and resistant (Nipponbare) rice cultivars were profiled using rice whole-genome microarrays. In addition to a functional categorization of changes in gene expression, genes that were significantly up-regulated within resistance QTL were identified. The resistance reaction was characterized by up-regulation of defence genes, including pathogenesis-related proteins, pleiotropic drug resistance ABC transporters, genes involved in phenylpropanoid metabolism and WRKY transcription factors. These changes in gene expression resemble those associated with resistance to microbial pathogens. Three genes encoding proteins of unknown function, within a major resistance QTL on chromosome 12, were highly up-regulated and are excellent candidate resistance genes. The susceptible interaction was characterized by large-scale down-regulation of gene expression, particularly within the functional categories plant growth regulator signalling and metabolism, biogenesis of cellular components and cell division. Up-regulated genes included nutrient transporters, enzymes of amino acid metabolism and some abiotic stress genes.
19086242	The dough, comprising a mixture of rice and blackgram, is shaped in a forming extruder followed by deep frying to obtain a crisp snack. Although it is a popular product in several oriental countries, the details of the role of raw materials and processing conditions are not known. Two different flour mixes obtained from rice and blackgram were studied to investigate the influence of the raw material on product characteristics. Fine particles in one flour mix (70 microm) had a high water-holding capacity (1.7 g/g) and gave product with low fat content (approximately 16%), but had an undesirable hard texture coupled with a floury mouth feel. On the contrary, coarse particles (113 microm) in another flour mix with a low water-holding capacity (1.5 g/g) produced a snack with higher fat content (26-30%) with a desirable crisp texture. Addition of fat and the use of coarse flour can avoid bursting of the product during frying, which is a common problem associated with frying of such products while using fine flour. A mechanism for frying rice-blackgram dough strands has been proposed.
19086295	G-proteins (guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that usually exhibit GTPase activities) and related signal transduction processes play important roles in mediating plant defense responses; here, a rice (Oryza sativa) cDNA clone, OsGAP1, encoding a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that also contains a protein kinase C conserved region 2 (C2) domain is reported. An interacting G-protein partner for the OsGAP1 protein was identified by yeast two-hybrid library screening and confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation; the GTPase-activation activity of OsGAP1 on this interacting G-protein was demonstrated using in vitro assays. OsGAP1 was induced by wounding in rice and the presence of the R locus Xa14 enhances such induction. Gain-of-function tests in transgenic rice and Arabidopsis thaliana showed that constitutive expression of OsGAP1 led to increased resistance to bacterial pathogens in both monocots and dicots.
19086516	The effects of Vanillic Acid (VA) on germination, seedling and adult plant of rice (Oryza sativa L.) were investigated. Four cultivars, traditional (Taroom mahalli and Taroom deilamani) and improved (Shafagh and Onda) were studied. For germination, seeds were sterilized and then placed on Petri dish at 30 degrees C at different concentrations (0, 10, 20 and 25 mM) for 7 days and growth factors of seedling were measured after 14 days. Seedling (10 days) planted in hydroponic medium including nutrient solution amended with 0, 25, 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) VA. After 30 days, the growth factors were determined, alpha-amylase and peroxidase activities were assayed by Bernfeld and Maehly methods, respectively. Present results indicated that as a result of increasing concentrations of VA, germination percentage and germination rate as well as alpha-amylase activity markedly decreased except Onda in all cultivars. In all cultivars, seedling growth factors such as shoot length, fresh weight and dry weight as well as root have been reduced by increasing of VA. In adult plant, also shoot length, root length, shoot dry weight and root fresh weight were reduced by increasing concentrations of VA. Shoot fresh weight was decreased in Shafagh by increasing concentrations of VA; meanwhile, we have not observed any significant differences in the other cultivars. In the case of root dry weight, there were not significant differences in any cultivars. With increasing concentrations of VA, chlorophyll content reduced; on the contrary, peroxidase activity increased.
19086545	In order to consider effects of various levels of nitrogen and potassium application on kernel processing characteristics of rice cultivars, an experiment was developed in 2004 and 2005 using Tarrom (a local Iranian landrace) and Neda (an Iranian improved cultivar). In this experiment four levels of nitrogen fertilizer (0, 50, 100 and 150 kg N ha(-1) from urea source) and four levels of potassium fertilizer (0, 75, 150 and 225 kg K2O ha(-1) from potassium sulfate source) have been applied using a split factorial design with 3 replications. Nitrogen fertilizer have been applied in three stages (1/3 in transplanting stage, 1/3 in tillering stage and finally 1/3 in flowering initiation stage) and potassium fertilizer have been applied in two stages (1/2 in transplanting stage and 1/2 in shooting stage). Results showed that application of nitrogen cause an increase in amount of bran production and have shown significant effects on percentages of bran, head and brewers rice, husking efficiency and transformation degree. However, potassium application has increased percent of bran and husking efficiency and has decrease percentages of brewers rice and has not demonstrated significant effects on percentages of husk, head rice and transformation degree. Furthermore, simultaneous application of nitrogen and potassium in Tarrom genotype has not shown significantly effects on percentages of husk, head and brewers rice and transformation degree. In Neda, cultivar has not also shown significant effects on percentages of bran production, head and brewers rice and husking efficiency, respectively. In Tarrom genotype amount of husk, bran, brewers rice and transformation degree were higher than in Neda cultivar, however, amount of head rice and husking efficiency in Neda cultivar were higher than in Tarrom genotype.
19086555	In order to consider effects of various levels of nitrogen and potassium application on cooking quality traits of rice cultivars, an experiment was conducted in 2004 and 2005 using Tarrom (a local Iranian landrace) and Neda (an Iranian improved cultivar). In this experiment four levels of nitrogen fertilizer (0, 50, 100 and 150 kg N ha(-2) from urea source) and four levels of potassium fertilizer (0, 75, 150 and 225 kg K2O ha(-2) from potassium sulfate source) have been applied using a split factorial design with three replications. Nitrogen fertilizer have been applied in three stages (1/3 in transplanting stage, 1/3 in tillering stage and finally 1/3 in flowering initiation stage) and potassium fertilizer have been applied in two stages (1/2 in transplanting stage and 1/2 in shooting stage). Results showed that application of nitrogen increased gel consistency and decreased amylose content of rice kernel; however, had not significantly affected gelatinization temperature and grain protein content. Application of potassium increased gel consistency and grain protein content but had not significantly affected gelatinization temperature and kernel amylose content. Gel consistency and gelatinization temperature of Tarrom were higher than Neda; whilst, inversely, grain amylose and protein contents of Neda were higher than Tarrom. Simultaneous application of nitrogen and potassium has no significant effects on gel consistency, gelatinization temperature and grain protein content; But maximum amylose content was achieved using none of fertilizers in Neda and 75 kg K2O ha(-1) with no nitrogen fertilizer in Tarrom genotypes, respectively.
19086571	Present study was conducted to determine optimal amounts of irrigation water for rice in different nitrogen application rates, flowering stage air temperatures, T(f) and plant populations. The results indicated that in water limiting conditions in the study area, the optimum irrigation water was affected by crop management (N application rate and plant population) and climatological factors such as T(f). The optimum amounts of water, w(w) decreased at a higher rate (from 1988 to 1226 mm) by increase in nitrogen application rate (from 0 to 150 kg N ha(-1)) at higher T(f) and plant population. These values were 2692 to 2191 mm of water for 0 to 150 kg N ha(-1) for low value of T(f) and plant population. Under unfavorable air temperature condition and low plant population, the w(w) decreased by 19% at 150 kg N ha(-1), compared with 0 kg N ha(-1). However, under favorable air temperature condition and high plant population, this value was 38%. Therefore, under water limiting conditions in the study area, the higher plant population and favorable climatological factor can highly reduce the optimum irrigation water at higher N application rate. Also, N application rate, plant population, P, air temperature at the flowering stage and applied irrigation water affected the net income. The maximum net income was obtained in T(f) = 28.2 degrees C (near optimum air temperature during the flowering stage, 30-33 degrees C), P = 25 hills m(-2), 120 kg ha(-1) N application and 2138 mm applied irrigation water. The field management factors such as applied irrigation water, nitrogen application rate and plant population can be controlled by field manager and the optimum amounts may be applied. However, the climatological factors are unpredictable, therefore, these factors should be considered in economic analysis of crop yield production and field management.
19086592	The response of germination and early seedling growth of different transgenic rice lines (T-99, T-112, T-115 and T-121) were examined in different levels of salinity (0, 50, 100 and 150 mM NaCl). Final germination, germination rate (1/t50, where t50 is the time to 50% of germination) and early seedling growth were assessed. Final germination percentage was inhibited with increasing salt concentrations. The required time for germination also increased with increasing salinity levels. The seedling growth was also reduced by salt concentrations, particularly at 150 mM. Root and shoot lengths, root/shoot ratio, fresh weights of root and shoot were also decreased with increasing salt stress. T-99 and T-112 had shown greater performance at germination and early seedling growth as compared to other transgenic lines.
19086696	To estimate the preventive potential of Japanese traditional cereals against oxygen radical-related chronic diseases such as cardiovascular diseases and diabetes, antioxidant and radical-scavenging activities in the extracts of five Japanese traditional cereal grains were analyzed by using an assay system of lipid peroxidation and a radical compound, 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH). DPPH radical-scavenging activities in the extracts of Japanese cereal grains were divided into two groups. One group including Japanese sorghum, black rice and red rice showed strong radical-scavenging activities, but the other group including Japanese barnyard millet and foxtail millet did not exhibit significant radical-scavenging activities. The DPPH radical-scavenging activities of these extracts were closely correlated to the contents of phenolic compound in the extracts, but not to the sugar or protein content in the extracts. In contrast, all the methanol and water extracts of the cereal grains caused significant antioxidant activities against hydroperoxide generation in the peroxidation of linoleic acid, in which the water extracts of these cereal grains caused much higher antioxidant activities than the methanol extracts of the same cereals. These results suggest that Japanese traditional cereals contain qualitatively different principles associated with antioxidant and radical-scavenging activities, and possible principles responsible for the antioxidant and radical-scavenging activities in the cereal grains are discussed.
19087411	There are several enteric bacterial diseases and conditions of pigs that require control to prevent overt disease, to reduce morbidity and mortality, and to improve the efficiency of production. Traditionally, veterinarians, feed manufacturers and producers have relied upon antibiotics and minerals (for example, ZnO, CuSO4) in diets for a large part of this control. However, recent trends, particularly in Europe, are to reduce antimicrobial use and seek alternative or replacement strategies for controlling enteric bacterial diseases. The majority of these strategies rely on 'nutrition', taken in its broadest sense, to reduce the susceptibility of pigs to these diseases. Evidence to date suggests that specific dietary interventions, for example feeding very highly-digestible diets based on cooked white rice, can reduce the proliferation of a number of specific enteric bacterial infections, such as post-weaning colibacillosis. No simple and universal way to reduce susceptibility to pathogens in the gastrointestinal tract has been identified, and the underlying basis for many of the reported positive effects of 'nutrition' on controlling enteric infections lacks robust, scientific understanding. This makes it difficult to recommend dietary guidelines to prevent or reduce enteric bacterial diseases. Furthermore, some diseases, such as porcine intestinal spirochaetosis caused by Brachyspira pilosicoli, are sometimes associated with other pathogens (co-infections). In such cases, each pathogen might have different nutrient requirements, ecological niches and patterns of metabolism for which a variety of dietary interventions are needed to ameliorate the disease. Greater understanding of how 'nutrition' influences gut epithelial biology and immunobiology, and their interactions with both commensal and pathogenic bacteria, holds promise as a means of tackling enteric disease without antimicrobial agents. In addition, it is important to consider the overall system (i.e. management, housing, welfare) of pig production in the context of controlling enteric bacterial diseases.
19087955	The content and composition of the plant cell wall polymer lignin affect plant fitness, carbon sequestration potential, and agro-industrial processing. These characteristics, are heavily influenced by the supply of hydroxycinnamyl alcohol precursors synthesized by the enzyme cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD). In angiosperms, CAD is encoded by a multigene family consisting of members thought to have distinct roles in different stages of plant development. Due to the high sequence similarity among CAD genes, it has been challenging to identify and study the role of the individual genes without a genome sequence. Analysis of the recently released sorghum genome revealed the existence of 14 CAD-like genes at seven genomic locations. Comparisons with maize and rice revealed subtle differences in gene number, arrangement, and expression patterns. Sorghum CAD2 is the predominant CAD involved in lignification based on the phylogenetic relationship with CADs from other species and genetic evidence showing that a set of three allelic brown midrib (bmr) lignin mutants contained mutations in this gene. The impact of the mutations on the structure of the protein was assessed using molecular modeling based on X-ray crystallography data of the closely related Arabidopsis CAD5. The modeling revealed unique changes in structure consistent with the observed phenotypes of the mutants.
19088333	A new approach is described to analyse the barrier properties of the outer part of rice (Oryza sativa L.) roots towards oxygen. By using a root-sleeving O(2) electrode, radial oxygen loss at different distances from the root apex was measured and related to the corresponding root structure. In addition, internal oxygen concentrations were precisely adjusted using a newly developed perfusion technique. Thus, the oxygen permeability coefficient of the outer part of the root (OPR) could be calculated, since both (i) the oxygen flow across the OPR and (ii) the oxygen concentration gradient across the OPR from inside to outside were known. On the basis of the permeability coefficient, it can be decided whether or not different rates of oxygen loss across the OPR are due to changes in the OPR structure and/or to changes in the concentration gradient. The technique was applied to rice root segments, which enabled rapid perfusion of aerenchyma. In the present study, roots of rice grown under aerobic conditions were used which should have a higher O(2) permeability compared with that of plants grown in deoxygenated solution. Both radial oxygen losses and permeability coefficients decreased along the root, reaching the lowest values at the basal positions. Values of oxygen permeability coefficients of the OPR were corrected for external unstirred layers. They decreased from (2.8+/-0.2)x10(-6) m s(-1) at 30 mm to (1.1+/-0.2)x10(-6) m s(-1) at 60 mm from the apex (n=5; +/-SE). They were similar to those measured previously for cuticles. Low diffusional oxygen permeability of the OPR suggested that the barrier to radial oxygen loss was effective. This may help to retain oxygen within the root and enhance diffusion of oxygen towards the apex in the presence of a relatively high water permeability. The results are discussed in terms of the inter-relationship between the water and oxygen permeabilities as roots develop in either aerated or deoxygenated (stagnant) media.
19089317	The aim of this work was to characterize the phot1 mutant of rice during early seedling growth in various light conditions. We isolated the rice T-DNA insertion mutant phot1a-1 and compared it to the Tos17 insertion mutant phot1a-2. When phot1a mutants were grown under WL (100) and BL (40 miccromol m(-2) s(-1)), they demonstrated a considerable reduction in photosynthetic capacity, which included decreased leaf CO(2) uptake and plant growth. Pigment analysis showed no significant difference between wild-type and mutants in the Chl a:b ratios, whereas in the latter, total concentration was reduced (a 2-fold decrease). Carotenoid contents of the mutants were also decreased considerably, implying the involvement of phot1a in pigment degradation. Deletion of phot1a showed higher contents of H(2)O(2) in leaves. Chloroplastic APX and SOD activities were lower in the mutants whereas the activities of cytosolic enzymes were increased. Immunoblotting indicated reduced accumulation of photosystem proteins (D1, D2, CP43, Lhca2, and PsaC) relative to the other light-harvesting complexes in the mutant. We conclude that the defect of Os Phot1a affects degradation of chlorophylls and carotenoids, and under photosynthetically active photon fluxes, mutation of phot1a results in loss of photosynthetic capacity owing to the damage of photosystems caused by elevated H(2)O(2) accumulation, leading to a reduction in plant growth.
19089319	A 10-year follow-up study was conducted to investigate the effects of renal handling of calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P) after the removal of cadmium-polluted soil in rice paddies and replacing it with nonpolluted soil. Using a general linear mixed model, serial changes of Ca and P concentrations in urine and serum (Ca-U/S, P-U/S), fractional excretion of Ca (FECa), and percent tubular reabsorption of P (%TRP) were determined in 37 persons requiring observation in the Cd-polluted Kakehashi River Basin, Japan. Ca-U and Ca-S remained within the normal range in both sexes. FECa in men returned to the normal level within 3.3 years from the completion of soil replacement. Overall, it is suggested that the renal handling of Ca showed no or only a slight change throughout the observation period in both sexes. P-U decreased gradually. P-S showed lower than normal values in the men and values at the lower end of the normal range in women, although the values recovered gradually to normal. %TRP values remained low throughout the observation period and the values did not recover in either sex. However, the results of P-U and P-S suggested that the renal handling of P may recover after the completion of soil replacement.
19089593	Pesticide residues in five freshwater areas that are directly affected by rice paddy effluents in southern Japan were measured to determine their maximum concentrations and temporal variations. Water samples were collected every week during the 2005 rice planting season in Kagoshima Prefecture and stations were established in Amori River, Sudo River, Nagaida River (that drains into the bigger Kotsuki River), rice paddy drainage canal, and wastewater reservoir (that collects effluents from rice paddy fields). Of the 14 target pesticides examined, a total of 11 were detected in all stations. Mefenacet, fenobucarb, and flutolanil were the three pesticides with the highest maximum concentrations and were also detected frequently. Analysis of temporal variations of pesticides showed that herbicides had relatively higher concentrations in the earlier stages of the rice planting season, while insecticides and fungicides had relatively higher concentrations at the later stages. There was no significant difference among stations with regards to the temporal patterns of the top three pesticides. The calculated toxic units were less than 1 in all stations, implying low or negligible environmental risk of pesticides detected to freshwater organisms.
19089826	Rare earth elements (REEs) have beneficial influence on plant growth and are widely used in agriculture practice, but little is known about the behavior of the REEs in mitochondria of plant cell. Thermogenic metabolic curves were determined by the ampoule method at 303 K using a TAM air isothermal microcalorimeter in mitochondria isolated from hybrid rice Liangyoupeijiu (Oryza sativa L.), and the effect of La(III) on its mitochondrial metabolism was investigated. From the obtained heat flux curves, the crucial parameters including as activity recovery rate constant (k) and maximum heat power (P(max)) were determined. Application of La(3+) in concentrations ranging from 0 to 120 microg/ml significantly increased k and P(max) values with the high point reaching 346 and 222% of the control, respectively. Concentrations from 140-150 microg/ml had the opposite effect. These results were consistent with previous reports on the effects of REEs on plant growth. It was concluded that the La-induced change of mitochondrial metabolic activity is a possible mechanism by which La(III) ions influences hybrid rice growth.
19089874	Complete dissolution is needed for the separation, characterization, or homogeneous labeling of whole starch molecules. A method is presented to quantify the extent of starch dissolution in DMSO for the first time; it is validated on a commercial rice starch. It is used directly on starch dispersions containing possible undissolved or co-dissolved species. High-amylose maize starches, known to be digested slowly in vivo, only quantitatively dissolve in the presence of high concentrations of an H-bond disrupter, LiBr, although they form clear dispersions at low LiBr concentrations. Starch quantitatively dissolves from waxy rice flours; non-starch components partially co-dissolve but do not interfere with the dissolution quantification.
19090127	In order to study the effects of plant density on agronomical characteristics of rice varieties a field experiment was carried out in field of Ghaemshahr Azad University in 2006. This experiment was laid out in split plot in basis of Randomized Completely Block Design with three replications. Main factor was rice variety in three levels (Hashemi Tarom, Fajr, Neda) and minor factor was planting density (Including 10 x 8.3, 10 x 10, 12.5 x 10, 16.6 x 10, 16.6 x 15 and 25 x 20 cm or 120, 100, 80, 60, 40 and 20 plant m(-2), respectively). Results showed that planting density had significant effect on plant height, total spikelets, total tillers, fertile tillers, panicle per m2, grain yield and harvest index. Days number till to 50% flowering stage and growth period length were maximum in Neda variety. Also these characteristics were not influenced by different planting densities. Maximum plant height and maximum panicle length were obtained in Hashemi Tarom variety and minimum of these characteristics were produced in Neda variety. Plant height was decreased significantly with increase of planting density.
19090163	In order to study the effect of nitrogen fertilizer management on dry matter remobilization among three rice cultivars, a field experiment was carried out at the Rice Research Institute of Iran-Deputy of Mazandaran (Amol). In 2005, a split-split experiment in the basis of randomized complete block design with 3 replications and 3 factors were used in which fertilizer rate (100, 150 and 200 kg ha(-1) from urea source), fertilizer split application (3 levels in variable ratios in transplanting, tillering and heading stages and cultivars (Tarom, Shafagh and Bahar1) were the treatments. Results showed that nitrogen fertilizer rates and split application had significant effect on dry matter remobilization amount in total shoot, stem and leaves (except flag leaf) in which among cultivars, Shafagh had the highest amount in terms of stem and total shoot dry matter remobilization. This amount was obtained at the 100 kg ha(-1) nitrogen fertilizer and the first split application treatment. The highest rate of dry matter remobilization in leaves (except flag leaf) related to Bahar1 that obtained in 200 kg ha(-1) nitrogen fertilizer level. Also, flag leaf of Bahar1 had the highest dry matter remobilization amount, although was not affected by nitrogen fertilizer rates and split application. Thus, it seams that this part has important role in current photosynthesis at post anthesis stage compared with dry matter remobilization. According to our findings, flag leaf in Tarom cultivar not only has no significant role in dry matter remobilization, but also act as a powerful sink for photosynthetic assimilates.
19090186	The effect of different rice cultivation periods on the properties of selected soils in alluvial plain were studied in Mazandaran province (north of Iran) in 2004. Soils were sampled form 0, 6, 16, 26 and over 40 years rice cultivation fields. In each treatment three soil profiles and six nearby auger holes were studied. The present study results indicated that continuous rice cultivation have changed soil moisture regime from xeric to aquic, soil color from brown to grayish, surface horizons from mollic to ochric epipedon and soil structure changed from granular or blocky to massive. Therefore, the soil order has changed from Mollisols to Inceptisols. No illuviation and eluviation of clay minerals occurred as a consequence of rice cultivation. X-ray diffraction analysis showed that clay minerals in non-rice cultivated field were illite, vermiculite, montmorillonite, kaolinite and chlorite, but in rice field were illite, montmorillonite, kaolinite and chlorite, respectively. In contrast of montmorillonite, the amount of illite and vermiculite have been decreased by increasing periods of rice cultivation. The pH values of the saturated soil surface in six weeks past plantation have shifted toward neutrality. While Eh value of non-paddy soils were about +90 mv, surface horizons of paddy soils at field conditions had Eh value about +40, -12, -84, -122 mv, respectively. The amounts of organic matter and available Fe, Mn, Zn and Cu were increased whereas available K was decreased in paddy soils.
19090203	A field experiment was conducted to evaluate the response of rice crop to potassium fertilization in saline-sodic soil during 2005. Soil samples were collected before transplanting of rice crop and analysed for physical and chemical properties of the soil. In this experiment five rates of K2O (0, 25, 50, 75 and 100 kg ha(-1)) were applied in the presence of basal doses of N and P2O5 i.e., 110 and 90 kg ha(-1), respectively. Whole of P, K and 1/2 of N were applied at the time of rice transplanting. Twelve and halfkg ha(-1) ZnSO4 was also applied 15 days after rice transplanting. The remaining half of N was applied 30 days after rice transplanting. The system of layout was Randomized Complete Block Design with four replications. The net plot size was 6x4 m. Fertilizer sources of NPK were urea, TSP and SOP, respectively. Rice salt tolerant line PB-95 was used as test crops. The data of growth parameters and yield was recorded and samples of paddy and straw were collected treatment-wise and analysed for N, P and K contents. Soil samples after harvesting the crop were also collected, processed and analysed for the changes in the extractable soil K. The results showed that increasing rates of potassium fertilizer increased the number of tillers m(-2), plant height (cm), 1000-paddy weight and paddy as well as straw yield significantly. Maximum paddy (3.24 t ha(-1)) and straw (3.92 t ha(-1)) yields were obtained in T5 (100 kg K2O ha(-1)) which was at par with T4 (75 kg K2O ha(-1)). With increasing rates of potassium fertilizer, concentration of potassium in paddy and straw increased significantly. After harvesting the crop, the extractable potassium contents of soil increased from that of the original soil. It was concluded from the results that there was an increase of 30.65% in paddy over control by applying potassium (100 kg K2O ha(-1)) in saline-sodic soil.
19090243	A field experiment was initiated during 2005-2006 to study the effect of gypsum application on rice and subsequent wheat crop. The direct, residual and cumulative effects of gypsum were also noticed under rice-wheat system. The gypsum was applied as 0, 1 and 2 t ha(-1) with the basal dose of N, P2O5, K2O as 120, 90 and 60 kg ha(-1) to both crops. Rice variety IRRI6 and wheat variety Naseer 2000 were planted in Randomized Complete Block Design with three replications in a permanent layout. The soil samples were collected from both crops before earing to study P and K concentrations. The rice yield was significantly affected by gypsum application that ranged from 4807-5472 kg ha(-1). The highest rice yield was recorded by the application of 2.0 t gypsum ha(-1) with an increase of 13.8% over control. Similarly all the yield components like number of panicles m(-2), panicle length, plant height and 1000 grain weight were also significantly affected by gypsum application. The wheat grain yield ranged from 2598 to 4304 kg ha(-1). The cumulative application of 1 and 2 t gypsum ha(-1) increased the wheat yield by 25.25 and 65.66% over check, respectively. The direct and residual application of 2 t gypsum ha(-1) gave an increase of 46.80 and 15.05% over the check, respectively. The application of gypsum significantly affected the P and K that ranged from 4.50-7.50 and 4.70-9.32 mg kg(-1) P while 70-110 and 78-112 mg kg(-1) K in rice and wheat, respectively.
19090306	Improving the soil quality with organic matter and N, P and K contents are some of sewage sludge benefits. Adjusting carbonaceous materials such as plant wastes to dewatered sludge compost results in increasing the moisture content and improving C/N ratio. This study was conduced for three months in 2005, in Laboratory of Chemistry of Water and Wastewater in the School of Public Health of Isfahan University of Medical Science, to determine the C/N ratio and heavy metals concentration of bulking agents in sawdust, leaves, rice hulls and dewatered sewage sludge. Dewatered sludge was collected from Isfahan sewage treatment plant. Sawdust was collected from sawmills. Leaves were collected from municipality of Isfahan and rice hull from rice mills, then in samples determined C/N ratio and heavy metal according to standard methods. The results showed that concentrations of chromium and cadmium in the mixture of dewatered sewage sludge and bulking agents were lower them those of the standard level. Means of cobalt (115.44 mg kg(-1)), nickel (57.44 mg kg(-1)) and zinc (273.48 mg kg(-1)) concentrations were maximum in dewatered sludge but mean concentration of cobalt (25.66 mg kg(-1)) in rice hull samples and mean zinc (8.99 mg kg(-1)) and nickel (5.106 mg kg(-1)) concentrations in sawdust samples were minimum. The optimal conditions sewage sludge composting, each kilogram of sludge needs 350 g of saw dust, 470 g of leaves and 388 g of rice hull. Amount of heavy metals present in the bulking agents is lower than the amount mentioned for the compost.
19090710	Rice bran, an economical, underutilized coproduct of rough rice milling, was used to produce peptide hydrolysates, which were investigated for anticancer activity. Protein hydrolysates prepared by Alcalase hydrolysis under optimized conditions were treated further to obtain gastrointestinal (GI)-resistant peptide hydrolysates. They were fractionated into >50, 10-50, 5-10, and <5 kDa sizes and evaluated for inhibitory activity on proliferation of human colon (Caco-2) and liver (HepG2) cancer cell lines by Trypan blue dye exclusion assay. GI-resistant <5 and 5-10 kDa sized peptide fractions inhibited growth of Caco-2 cells by 80%, and the <5 kDa fraction inhibited growth of HepG2 cells by approximately 50% compared to controls and nonresistant fractions. An MTS cell titer assay confirmed antiproliferative effects of the peptide fractions. The results demonstrated that 5-10 and <5 kDa sized GI-resistant fractions promoted significant (p < 0.05) inhibitory activities on both cancer cell lines compared to controls. More investigations are needed to show such value-added effects on the technofunctional and sensorial properties of the food protein and peptide matrices.
19091365	The effect of high intake of Mg on urolithiasis was compared with high intake of P and K in goats being fed with a cottonseed meal and rice straw diet. Eighteen wether goats were randomly allocated into group A, B and C evenly and fed with cottonseed meal and rice straw diet for three months. From day 60 onwards, KH(2)PO(4) and K(2)HPO(4) were provided via drinking water to goats in group B to increase the intake of P, K, and MgO to goats in group C to increase the intake of Mg. Blood and urine samples were collected to analyze the concentration of P, K, Mg and Ca, and the activity product (AP) of potassium magnesium phosphate (MKP) in urine was also calculated. The composition of calculi and urinary sedimentary crystals were examined by chemical qualitative analysis, X-ray diffraction, X-ray energy dispersive spectrometry and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The results showed that the incidence of urolithiasis in group C (6/6) was higher than that in group A (1/6) and B (1/6) (P<0.05). The calculi were mainly composed of magnesium ammonium phosphate (MAP) and partly composed of MKP. MKP presented in crystals of different phases in this experiment. The high intake of Mg contributed to a significant increase of plasma Mg, but additional P, K did not cause a further increase of plasma P, K. Urine P, K, Mg and Ca and AP of MKP in group C decreased significantly after the onset of urolithiasis. In conclusion, high intake of Mg was more important in inducing struvite calculi compared with high intake of K and P in goats under these feeding conditions. Cottonseed meal and rice straw with additional Mg is a good dietary model for inducing struvite calculi in castrated goats.
19091507	Little information is available on the ecology of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA) in flooded rice soils. Consequently, a microcosm experiment was conducted to determine the effect of nitrogen fertilizer on the composition of AOB and AOA communities in rice soil by using molecular analyses of ammonia monooxygenase gene (amoA) fragments. Experimental treatments included three levels of N (urea) fertilizer, i.e. 50, 100 and 150 mgNkg(-1) soil. Soil samples were operationally divided into four fractions: surface soil, bulk soil deep layer, rhizosphere and washed root material. NH(4)(+)-N was the dominant form of N in soil porewater and increased with N fertilization. Cloning and sequencing of amoA gene fragments showed that the AOB community in the rice soil consisted of three major groups, i.e. Nitrosomonas communis cluster, Nitrosospira cluster 3a and cluster 3b. The sequences related to Nitrosomonas were predominant. There was a clear effect of N fertilizer and soil depth on AOB community composition based on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism fingerprinting. Nitrosomonas appeared to be more abundant in the potentially oxic or micro-oxic fractions, including surface soil, rhizosphere and washed root material, than the deep layer of anoxic bulk soil. Furthermore, Nitrosomonas increased relatively in the partially oxic fractions and that of Nitrosospira decreased with the increasing application of N fertilizer. However, AOA community composition remained unchanged according to the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analyses.
19091874	The anthers in flowers perform important functions in sexual reproduction. Several recent studies used microarrays to study anther transcriptomes to explore genes controlling anther development. To analyze the secretion and other functions of the tapetum, we produced transcriptomes of anthers of rice (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica) at six progressive developmental stages and pollen with sequencing-by-synthesis technology. The transcriptomes included at least 18,000 unique transcripts, about 25% of which had antisense transcripts. In silico anther-minus-pollen subtraction produced transcripts largely unique to the tapetum; these transcripts include all the reported tapetum-specific transcripts of orthologs in other species. The differential developmental profiles of the transcripts and their antisense transcripts signify extensive regulation of gene expression in the anther, especially the tapetum, during development. The transcriptomes were used to dissect two major cell/biochemical functions of the tapetum. First, we categorized and charted the developmental profiles of all transcripts encoding secretory proteins present in the cellular exterior; these transcripts represent about 12% and 30% of the those transcripts having more than 100 and 1,000 transcripts per million, respectively. Second, we successfully selected from hundreds of transcripts several transcripts encoding potential proteins for lipid exine synthesis during early anther development. These proteins include cytochrome P450, acyltransferases, and lipid transfer proteins in our hypothesized mechanism of exine synthesis in and export from the tapetum. Putative functioning of these proteins in exine formation is consistent with proteins and metabolites detected in the anther locule fluid obtained by micropipetting.
19091878	AtTCP20 is a transcription factor belonging to the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) TCP-P subfamily, characterized by its capacity to bind to site II motifs (TGGGCY). Our aim was to understand the role of AtTCP20 in plant development. The expression pattern of a translational fusion of Prom(TCP20):CDS20GUSGFP suggested a function for AtTCP20 in several plant organs and stages of development. The role of AtTCP20 was challenged in planta by inducing expression of AtTCP20 proteins fused with either a transcriptional activator domain (VP16) or a repressor domain (EAR). Expression of both modified proteins led to severe developmental phenotypes. In-depth analysis suggested that AtTCP20 may participate in the regulation of cell expansion, cell division, and cell differentiation. Gene expression profiling in roots and hypocotyls revealed that 252 genes were down-regulated in both organs after induction of the AtTCP20EAR repressor gene. Site II motifs (TGGGCY) were underrepresented in their promoters. Conversely, GG(A/T)CCC sequences related to binding sites identified for TCP proteins in rice (Oryza sativa) were overrepresented, and a TCP20 fusion protein was shown to bind to these sequences in vitro. Gene ontology indicated that many targeted genes were involved in cell wall biogenesis and modification during expansion and also encoded numerous transcription factors controlling plant development. Our results are consistent with the previous proposal that AtTCP20 is involved in cell division and growth coordination. Moreover, they further suggest that AtTCP20 also contributes to cell expansion control and indicate a different involvement of this protein in plant morphogenesis depending on the organ and the developmental stage.
19092202	We determined the natural Cd balance in a cultivated rice paddy field in Japan. The main sources of Cd in the non-polluted paddy field were phosphorus fertilizer and precipitation (annual input of Cd, 2,000 mg ha(-1) and 1,020 mg ha(-1), respectively). These sources account for 95% of the total input of Cd (3,192 mg ha(-1)). The actual increase of Cd in the soil was 0.0016 mg kg(-1), we thus consider Cd in soil increases only slightly as a result of rice culture. This study indicates that it is difficult to reduce Cd loading by irrigation water treatment in a non-polluted paddy field. This further indicates that once a field is polluted by Cd it is difficult to decrease the accumulated Cd by the ordinary cultivation of rice plants.
19092316	Visceral adiposity is an essential component of metabolic syndrome. Reduction of excessive visceral fat prevents metabolic syndrome and improves atherosclerotic diseases. This study aimed to identify dietary patterns and physical exercise during the training-education period that predict visceral adiposity regain during the follow-up period. One hundred one moderately obese Japanese women, 23 to 67 years of age, participated in 0- to 4-month training-education and 12-month follow-up periods. Dietary patterns of food groups during training-education were analyzed by principal components analysis, and 3 major dietary patterns were derived. The change in visceral fat over the follow-up, adjusted for 4-month visceral fat area (VFA) and 4- to 16-month body mass index change, was analyzed using stepwise multiple linear regression. VFA and body weight decreased during training-education (P<0.001) and were maintained during follow-up. One major dietary pattern (of 3) (P=0.030) and standard deviations of daily exercise duration (P=0.012) during training-education predicted VFA regain during follow-up. This regain correlated negatively with combinations of bread, milk and dairy products, fruits, seeds and nuts, and mushrooms, but positively with combinations of rice, pickles, miso, alcohol, and meat. The large standard deviation of daily exercise duration during training-education showed greater VFA regain during follow-up than did the smaller standard deviation (P=0.023), but body mass index did not show a similar trend. Our results revealed that daily exercise fluctuations and dietary patterns were useful predictors of visceral fat regain.
19093077	This study was undertaken to estimate the amount of cadmium (Cd) exposure needed for the development of Itai-itai disease and the influence of using Jinzu River water for drinking and/or cooking on its development. The subjects comprised 38 Itai-itai disease patients admitted both for questionnaire survey and medical testing. The period when the patients started to perceive leg/back pain was defined as 'mild disease onset' and that when they experienced the most severe manifestations such as ambulatory disturbance as 'severe disease onset'. In a comparison of non-users/users of river water, mean age and lifetime Cd intake (LCd) estimated from the daily consumption of rice and other foods at the onset of mild or severe disease showed smaller values in the users than non-users. LCd in non-users/users of river water for drinking and/or cooking were estimated as 3.46-3.60 g/2.58-2.63 g at mild disease onset and 4.24-4.44 g/3.50-3.54 g at severe disease onset. A portion of the differences in LCd in non-users/users is attributable to the influence of Cd consumption from the use of river water, although it was suggested that LCd estimated from eating Cd-polluted rice exerted a greater influence on the development of Itai-itai disease than drinking and/or cooking with Cd-polluted river water.
19093310
19093446	In this study, effect of different genotypes, different callus induction and regeneration media were investigated using seven Iranian local rice. Anthers were cultured on N6, Fj and L8 media containing the same hormonal combination 3 mg L(-1) NAA, 0.5 mg L(-1) Kn and 0.5 mg L(-1) 2, 4-D and incubated at 25 +/- 1 degree C in dark for callus induction. All varieties in L8 medium, five varieties in Fj medium and six varieties in N6 medium produced highest percentage of callus. Calli induced in different induction media were transferred to SK 11 and N 19 medium and incubated at 25 +/- 1 degree C in light for plantlet regeneration. Among seven varieties upon transfer to SK 11 medium, highest percentage (40%) of green plants were produced in Hassani and in N 19 medium the highest percentage (15.78) of green plants and albino plants (21.05) were produced in Anbarbo. The finding in the present investigation showed that the successfully emberyogenesis and green plant regeneration in rice anther culture dependent on medium culture components and are affected by the genetic mack-up of the plants.
19093505	The nitrogen content or crude protein content in rice grains is one of the important indices to evaluate the nutrition and taste quality of rice. Normal determination of their contents by chemical methods is highly expensive and time consuming. The hyperspectral reflectances of the canopy, flag leaf and panicle of 5 rice varieties are measured by a ASD FieldSpec Pro FR in field under 3 nitrogen support levels in maturing process. The nitrogen contents of stems, leaves, flag leaves, panicles and rice paddy and their crude protein contents are determined. The correlation among them is analyzed. The panicles nitrogen contents (%) are very significantly correlate not only to that of stems, leaves and flag leaves and chlorophyll contents (mg g(-1)) of flag leaves at milking and maturing stages, but also to the spectral reflectance rho(lambda), the first derivative spectra D(lambda) and RVI of canopy, flag leaf and panicle itself. The nitrogen contents (%) of rice paddy are very significantly correlative to that of stems and leaves and the spectral reflectance rho(lambda), the first derivative spectra D(lambda) and RVI of canopy at some wave bands at booting, milking and maturing stages. For the squared multiple correlation coefficients (R2) of estimating the nitrogen contents of panicle and paddy by canopies spectra, we find R2 > 0.80 at milking stage, R2 > 0.75 at maturing stage, but for the estimation of panicle by the spectra of flag leaf and panicle itself, we have R2 > 0.65. It indicates that it can be feasible for estimating the contents of nitrogen and crude protein in rice grains by hyperspectral remote sensing. It provide basis for monitoring rice quality by remote sensing.
19093510	Eleven genotypes, including the salt tolerant cultivar Pokkali as check, were used to evaluate salinity tolerance phenotypically and genotypically. Three selected SSR primers viz., RM7075, RM336 and RM253 were used to evaluate rice genotypes for salt tolerance. Two setups were maintained for this study viz., the seedling and reproductive stages. Phenotyping at the seedling stage was done in hydroponic system using salinized (EC 12 dS m(-1)) nutrient solution and at the reproductive stage using salinized tap water (EC 6 dS m(-1)). IRRI standard protocol was followed to evaluate salinity tolerance in rice. The genotypes having similar banding pattern with Pokkali were considered as tolerant. Phenotypically, three genotypes Pokkali, THDB and TNDB-100 and five genotypes RD-2586, TNDB-100, Dhol Kochuri, PNR-519 and Pokkali were identified as salt tolerant at the seedling and reproductive stages, respectively. These genotypes were also identified as salt tolerant genotypically (with markers). Through phenotypic and genotypic study, five genotypes viz., Pokkali, Dhol Kochuri, RD-2586, TNDB-100 and PNR-519 were identified as salt tolerant. Therefore, these microsatellite markers used in this study could be efficiently used for identification of salt tolerant rice varieties in marker-assisted breeding and quantitative trait loci analysis.
19093583	An ASD Field Spec Pro Full Range spectrometer was used here to acquire the spectral reflectance of healthy and disease leaves cut from rice plants in the field. The leaf disease severity of rice brown spot was determined by estimating the percentage of infected surface area of rice leaves in the laboratory through phytopathologist's observation. Three steps were taken to estimate leaf disease severity of rice brown spot. The first step was that different spectra transforming methods, namely, resampling spectrum (10 nm interval), the first- and second-order derivative spectrum based on raw hyperspectral reflectance, were conducted. The second step was that the principal component analysis (PCA) was examined to obtain the principal components (PCs) from the above transformed spectra to reduce the spectra dimensions of hyperspectral reflectance and simplify the data structure of hyperspectra. The last step was that the resampling and PCs spectra entered the Radial Basis Function neural network (RBFN) as the input vectors, and the disease severity of rice brown spot entered RBFN as the target vectors. RBFN is an effective feed forward propagation neural network, which is based on the linear combinations of corresponding radial basis functions. In general RBFN can be used to solve the problems such as regression or classification with high operation rate and efficient extrapolation capability, and quickly designed with zero error to approximate functions. The total dataset (n = 262) was divided into two subsets, in which three quarters (n = 210) was the training subset to train the neural network, and the remaining quarter (n = 52) was the testing dataset to conduct the performance analysis of neural network. The spread constants of RBFN and various data processing methods were investigated in detail. The best prediction result was obtained by PCs spectra based on the first-order derivative using RBFN model, the root mean square of prediction error (RMSE) was small (7.73%) in the testing dataset, and the next was the resampling spectra with RMSE of 8.75%. This research demonstrated that it was feasible and reliable to estimate the disease severity of rice brown spot based on PCA-RBFN and hyperspectral reflectance at the leaf level.
19093969	Brittleness culm is an important agronomic trait that has a potential usefulness in agricultural activity as animal forage although the developmental mechanism is not clear yet. In the present study, the anatomical and chemical characteristics as well as some ecophysiological features in the brittleness culm mutation of rice (Oryza sativa L.) were investigated. Compared with the wild type (WT), the brittleness culm mutant (bcm) exhibited higher culm vascular bundle distance and lower culm wall thickness, leaf interveinal distance and leaf thickness. Ratio of bundle sheath cell/whole bundle and areas of whole vascular bundles and bundle sheath of leaves were reduced while ratios of xylem and phloem to whole bundles were elevated in bcm. The Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) microspectroscopy analysis and further histochemical and physiological measurements revealed that the different contents and depositions of cell wall components such as pectins, lignin, suberin and cellulose all participated in the mutation of brittleness. However, the mutant presented no significant changes in leaf photosynthetic dynamics and apoplastic transport ability. These results strongly indicate that the alterations in anatomical and chemical characteristics, rather than changes in major ecophysiological features such as photosynthesis and apoplastic transport were involved in the brittleness mutation of rice.
19093978	Aerobic rice is a new production system in which specially-developed varieties are grown under non-flooded, non-puddled, and non-saturated soil conditions. In 2003-2004, irrigation x Nitrogen experiments were carried out near Beijing using variety HD297. Water treatments included four irrigation levels, and Nitrogen treatments included different fertilizer N application rates and different numbers of N splits. The highest yields were 4 460 kg/ha with 688 mm of total (rain plus irrigation) water input in 2003 and 6 026 kg/ha with 705 mm of water input in 2004. Because of the quite even distribution of rainfall in both years, the four irrigation treatments did not result in large differences of soil water conditions. There were few significant effects of irrigation on biomass accumulation, but yield increased with the total amount of water applied. High yields coincided with high harvest index and high percentages of grain filling. The application of fertilizer N either reduced biomass and yield or kept it at the same level as 0 N and consistently reduced the percentage grain filling and 1 000-grain weight. With the highest water application, five splits of N gave higher yield than three splits, whereas three splits gave higher yield than five splits with lower water applications.
19095242	Sodium silicate from rice husk ash (RHA) was transformed to functionalized silica with 3-(chloropropyl)triethoxysilane (CPTES) via a simple sol-gel technique in a one-pot synthesis. The (29)Si MAS NMR of the organo-silica complex (RHACCl) showed the presence of T(2), T(3), Q(3) and Q(4) silicon centers. The (13)C MAS NMR showed that RHACCl had three chemical shifts at 10.37, 26.70 and 47.69 ppm consistent with the three carbon atoms of the CPTES moiety. The presence of carbon, silicon and chlorine was determined by a combination of elemental analysis and EDX study.
19095283	Uptakes of o-chlorophenol (CP), 2,4-dichlorophenol (DCP), trichloroethylene (TCE), and atrazine (ATR), as single and mixed contaminants, by roots and shoots of rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) from hydroponic solutions were measured following a 48-h exposure of plant roots. As single contaminants, the concentrations of CP, DCP, and ATR in rice roots and shoots increased significantly with increasing concentrations in external solutions; however, TCE concentrations in rice roots and shoots decreased with increasing external TCE concentration or the exposure time. The observed bioconcentration factors (BCFs) of CP and DCP with roots and the BCF of ATR with shoots approximated the equilibrium values according to the partition-limited model. The BCF of DCP with shoots was about 30% of the partition limit, due to insufficient water transport into plants for DCP. In the ATR-CP-DCP mixed system, the BCFs of CP and DCP with both roots and shoots decreased significantly with increasing contaminant concentrations due to the enhanced mixed-contaminant phytotoxicity, as manifested by the greatly reduced plant transpiration rate. In the ATR-CP-DCP mixture system, the BCFs of ATR with roots at low concentrations were comparable with those for ATR alone, whereas the BCFs increased at high concentrations for an unknown reason. In the TCE-DCP system, TCE concentrations in roots increased with increasing TCE in external solutions, while TCE concentration in shoots stayed steady because of the strong TCE exchange at the air-leaf interface. The BCF of DCP with roots was comparable with that of DCP alone because there was no significant effect of added TCE on the plant transpiration rate.
19095493	Early marker-based macrocolinearity studies between the grass genomes led to arranging their chromosomes into concentric 'crop circles' of synteny blocks that initially consisted of 30 rice-independent linkage groups representing the ancestral cereal genome structure. Recently, increased marker density and genome sequencing of several cereal genomes allowed the characterization of intragenomic duplications and their integration with intergenomic colinearity data to identify paleo-duplications and propose a model for the evolution of the grass genomes from a common ancestor. On the basis of these data an 'inner circle' comprising five ancestral chromosomes was defined providing a new reference for the grass chromosomes and new insights into their ancestral relationships and origin, as well as an efficient tool to design cross-genome markers for genetic studies.
19096228	Sphingolipid metabolism is strongly associated with central nervous system myelination. Ceramide is the most active of the sphingolipid metabolites. On the basis of ceramide biosynthesis indicated by serine palmitoyltransferase activity and cerebroside generated by ceramide, the evaluation of serine palmitoyltransferase activity in developing brains or hypoxic-ischemic damaged brains is worthwhile. Using a scintillation counter, we assessed serine palmitoyltransferase activity, a rate-limiting enzyme of sphingolipid metabolism, in the brains of developing rats and compared the activity with hypoxic-ischemic brains, using the method of Rice on postnatal day 7 (P7). In the control groups, serine palmitoyltransferase activity was detected in the microsomal fraction of whole brain homogenates from P4, which was earlier than the initial expression of myelin-specific proteins such as myelin basic protein and proteolipid protein on immunochemistry. Serine palmitoyltransferase activity increased along with development on P8, P10, P14 and P21. However, hypoxic-ischemic brains showed lower serine palmitoyltransferase activity than control brains on P8, P10, P14 and P21. These results suggest that increase in serine palmitoyltransferase activity before myelin-specific protein expression may be an initial step in myelinogenesis and a decline in serine palmitoyltransferase activity in hypoxic-ischemic brains may be one of the major causes of delayed myelination.
19097776	This paper investigates spent litter from deep litter piggery housing as a potential substrate for farm-scale anaerobic digestion. Degradability and degradation rates were evaluated under mesophilic conditions for unused, lightly soiled (used by weaner/small pigs), and heavily soiled (used by finishing/large pigs) wheat straw, barley straw, and rice husks bedding. Apparent first order hydrolysis rate coefficients varied, but were comparable across all samples analysed (<0.1 day(-1)). Spent wheat straw was generally more degradable (approximately 60%) than spent barley straw, while spent barley straw was comparable to raw straw (40-50%), but with higher hydrolysis rates, indicating better accessibility. Rice husks were relatively poorly degradable (<20%), but degradability was improved by weathering in a pig shed. Digestion of spent barley and wheat straw litter was significantly faster (approximately twice the rate) at low (8% solids) than high (14% solids) solids loading. Rice husks degradation kinetics were not significantly influenced by solids concentration. Intrinsic methanogenic activity of heavily soiled spent wheat straw and rice husks bedding was initially poor, but achieved full activity after 40-60 days, indicating that reactor operation without external inoculum may be possible with care.
19098244	The effects of 3 nonionic surfactants (NIS), including alkyl polyglucoside (APG), sorbitan trioleate (Span85), and polyoxyethylene sorbitan monostearate (Tween80), on in vitro fermentation characteristics of maize stover, rice straw, and wheat straw were examined using an in vitro gas production technique. Four levels each of APG, Span85, and Tween80 [0, 0.02, 0.05, and 0.1% (vol/vol) of incubation solution] were tested in a 4 x 4 x 4 factorial arrangement. The NIS generally increased the in vitro maximal gas production (A), but decreased the lag time of cereal straws. The effects of NIS on the rate of gas production (B) were related to the surfactant type and fermented substrate. The NIS generally increased IVDMD and in vitro OM disappearance (IVOMD) of cereal straws, but responses were dose dependent. The NIS increased total VFA concentration of in vitro fermentation supernatant for maize stover and wheat straw, but decreased total VFA concentration for rice straw. The effects of NIS on the molar proportions of acetate, propionate, and butyrate were dependent on the dose and type of NIS and on fermented substrate. Several interactive effects were noted between or among 3 surfactants (APG, Span85, and Tween80) on in vitro gas production variables, IVD-MD, IVOMD, and VFA for each straw; the optimal combinations of 2 or 3 types of NIS were determined according to the responses of IVDMD and IVOMD to NIS addition. The results of this study suggest that NIS may improve in vitro fermentation of low quality roughages and have potential application as feed additives in ruminant production.
19098269	Oryza (23 species; 10 genome types) contains the world's most important food crop - rice. Although the rice genome serves as an essential tool for biological research, little is known about the evolution of the other Oryza genome types. They contain a historical record of genomic changes that led to diversification of this genus around the world as well as an untapped reservoir of agriculturally important traits. To investigate the evolution of the collective Oryza genome, we sequenced and compared nine orthologous genomic regions encompassing the Adh1-Adh2 genes (from six diploid genome types) with the rice reference sequence. Our analysis revealed the architectural complexities and dynamic evolution of this region that have occurred over the past approximately 15 million years. Of the 46 intact genes and four pseudogenes in the japonica genome, 38 (76%) fell into eight multigene families. Analysis of the evolutionary history of each family revealed independent and lineage-specific gain and loss of gene family members as frequent causes of synteny disruption. Transposable elements were shown to mediate massive replacement of intergenic space (>95%), gene disruption, and gene/gene fragment movement. Three cases of long-range structural variation (inversions/deletions) spanning several hundred kilobases were identified that contributed significantly to genome diversification.
19098326	Although an association between chilling tolerance and aquaporins has been reported, the exact mechanisms involved in this relationship remain unclear. We compared the expression profiles of aquaporin genes between a chilling-tolerant and a low temperature-sensitive rice variety using real-time PCR and identified seven genes that closely correlated with chilling tolerance. Chemical treatment experiments, by which rice plants were induced to lose their chilling tolerance, implicated the PIP1 (plasma membrane intrinsic protein 1) subfamily member genes in chilling tolerance. Of these members, changes in expression of the OsPIP1;3 gene suggested this to be the most closely related to chilling tolerance. Although OsPIP1;3 showed a much lower water permeability than members of the OsPIP2 family, OsPIP1;3 enhanced the water permeability of OsPIP2;2 and OsPIP2;4 when co-expressed with either of these proteins in oocytes. Transgenic rice plants (OE1) overexpressing OsPIP1;3 showed an enhanced level of chilling tolerance and the ability to maintain high OsPIP1;3 expression levels under low temperature treatment, similar to that of chilling-tolerant rice plants. We assume that OsPIP1;3, constitutively overexpressed in the leaf and root of transgenic OE1 plants, interacts with members of the OsPIP2 subfamily, thereby improving the plants' water balance under low temperatures and resulting in the observed chilling tolerance of the plants.
19099599	Increasing evidence shows that whole genomes of eukaryotes are almost entirely transcribed into both protein coding genes and an enormous number of non-protein-coding RNAs (ncRNAs). Therefore, revealing the underlying regulatory mechanisms of transcripts becomes imperative. However, for a complete understanding of transcriptional regulatory mechanisms, we need to identify the regions in which they are found. We will call these transcriptional regulation regions, or TRRs, which can be considered functional regions containing a cluster of regulatory elements that cooperatively recruit transcriptional factors for binding and then regulating the expression of transcripts. We constructed a hierarchical stochastic language (HSL) model for the identification of core TRRs in yeast based on regulatory cooperation among TRR elements. The HSL model trained based on yeast achieved comparable accuracy in predicting TRRs in other species, e.g., fruit fly, human, and rice, thus demonstrating the conservation of TRRs across species. The HSL model was also used to identify the TRRs of genes, such as p53 or OsALYL1, as well as microRNAs. In addition, the ENCODE regions were examined by HSL, and TRRs were found to pervasively locate in the genomes. Our findings indicate that 1) the HSL model can be used to accurately predict core TRRs of transcripts across species and 2) identified core TRRs by HSL are proper candidates for the further scrutiny of specific regulatory elements and mechanisms. Meanwhile, the regulatory activity taking place in the abundant numbers of ncRNAs might account for the ubiquitous presence of TRRs across the genome. In addition, we also found that the TRRs of protein coding genes and ncRNAs are similar in structure, with the latter being more conserved than the former.
19099608	Endophytic fungi are known plant symbionts. They produce a variety of beneficial metabolites for plant growth and survival, as well as defend their hosts from attack of certain pathogens. Coastal dunes are nutrient deficient and offer harsh, saline environment for the existing flora and fauna. Endophytic fungi may play an important role in plant survival by enhancing nutrient uptake and producing growth-promoting metabolites such as gibberellins and auxins. We screened roots of Ixeris repenes (L.) A. Gray, a common dune plant, for the isolation of gibberellin secreting endophytic fungi. We isolated 15 endophytic fungi from the roots of Ixeris repenes and screened them for growth promoting secondary metabolites. The fungal isolate IR-3-3 gave maximum plant growth when applied to waito-c rice and Atriplex gemelinii seedlings. Analysis of the culture filtrate of IR-3-3 showed the presence of physiologically active gibberellins, GA1, GA3, GA4 and GA7 (1.95 ng/ml, 3.83 ng/ml, 6.03 ng/ml and 2.35 ng/ml, respectively) along with other physiologically inactive GA5, GA9, GA12, GA15, GA19, GA20 and, GA24. The plant growth promotion and gibberellin producing capacity of IR-3-3 was much higher than the wild type Gibberella fujikuroi, which was taken as control during present study. GA5, a precursor of bioactive GA3 was reported for the first time in fungi. The fungal isolate IR-3-3 was identified as a new strain of Penicillium citrinum (named as P. citrinum KACC43900) through phylogenetic analysis of 18S rDNA sequence. Isolation of new strain of Penicillium citrinum from the sand dune flora is interesting as information on the presence of Pencillium species in coastal sand dunes is limited. The plant growth promoting ability of this fungal strain may help in conservation and revegetation of the rapidly eroding sand dune flora. Penicillium citrinum is already known for producing mycotoxin citrinin and cellulose digesting enzymes like cellulase and endoglucanase, as well as xylulase. Gibberellins producing ability of this fungus and the discovery about the presence of GA5 will open new aspects of research and investigations.
19099849	Neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) causes acute death and chronic nervous system sequelae in newborn infants and children. Whereas there have been no specific treatment towards it up to now. Studies have shown that bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have the therapeutic potential in many nervous system diseases and the authors previously found that retinoid acid (RA), which plays an important role in brain development, could enhance the neural differentiation of rat MSCs (rMSCs) in vitro. This study aimed to examine effects of rMSCs and RA-preinduced rMSC on learning and memory functional recovery after HIBD in neonatal rats in order to explore a new treatment strategy for clinical application, and explore the mechanism of action of rMSCs. Rat MSCs were isolated and purified from the whole bone marrow of juvenile Wistar rats by removing the non-adherent cells in primary and passage cultures. Neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain damage rat models were built according to the methods described by Rice: the right carotid artery of 7-day-postnatal Wistar rats was ligated under anesthesia, and then the rats were exposed to 8% - 9% O2 in a container. At 5 days after hypoxia-ischemia, the HIBD neonatal rats were randomly divided into 3 groups and respectively transplanted with saline, BrdU marked rMSCs (1 - 2 x 10(5)) or RA-preinduced rMSCs (1 - 2 x 10(5)) into their lateral cerebral ventricle. Immunohistochemistry for nestin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), neurofilament protein-heavy chain (NF-H) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were used to identify cells derived from rMSCs at 14 days and 42 days after transplantation. Shuttle box test was performed to evaluate the condition of learning and memory functional recovery when animals were 7 weeks old. Neurotrophin and receptors cDNA microarray were also employed at 14 days after transplantation to investigate the underlying action mechanisms of rMSCs treatment. Real-time PCR was used to confirm some of the remarkably changed genes. (1) The neonatal rat model of HIBD was successfully established. (2) Immunohistochemistry showed rMSCs-derived cells survived, migrated into the hypoxic-ischemic brain tissue and a few of them expressed protein characteristic of neurons and astrocytes (NF-H and GFAP) in RA-preinduced group 14 days and 42 days after transplantation, while no positive expression of nestin and NSE were detected. (3) The shuttle box test showed that the average learning times in rats transplanted with saline, rMSC and RA-preinduced rMSCs were (94.10 +/- 38.18), (74.60 +/- 29.21) and (47.90 +/- 21.13), respectively. The difference between the former two was not significant (P > 0.05), while the latter one exhibited significant improvement (P < 0.05). (4) The cDNA microarray analysis showed that compared with normal control group, IL-6, Fas and BDNF genes of the saline control group significantly up-regulated (the ratios of the three genes were 11.4, 2.4 and 6.6 respectively). Compared with saline group, the three genes in rMSC group were down-regulated (the ratios were all 0.1), while the levels of IL-6 and Fas genes (the ratios were 0.3 and 0.4 respectively) in RA-preinduced rMSCs group were higher than rMSCs group after down-regulating, but the level of BDNF remained at the saline group level. Real-time PCR analysis suggested that the results of IL-6 and Fas genes were at equal level with microarray results on the whole, while the level of BDNF gene in RA-preinduced rMSC group was significantly down-regulated (with ratio of 0.34), but higher than rMSCs group (the ratio was 0.25) as well. Transplantation of rMSC and RA-preinduced rMSCs into lateral cerebral ventricle can improve learning and memory functional recovery after HIBD in neonatal rats, especially RA-preinduced rMSCs. Regulating the levels of IL-6, Fas and BDNF in the brain to maintain at reasonable levels may be the mechanism.
19102309	With rice cultivars Yangdao 6 (Indica) and Wuyujing 3 (Japonica) as test materials, the effects of relatively high temperature (RHT, mean temperature 30 degrees C) at grain-filling stage (GFS) on the starch viscosity profile and magnesium (Mg) and potassium (K) contents of rice grain were studied in a phytotron. Four temperature treatments were installed, i.e., RHT at whole GFS, RHT at early GFS and optimum temperature at later GFS, optimum temperature at early GFS and RHT at later GFS, and optimum temperature (CK, mean temperature 23 degrees C) at whole GFS. The results showed that RHT at GFS significantly influenced the characteristic values of rice grain' s starch viscosity profile, e.g., the values of gelatinization temperature, final viscosity, consistency, and setback increased, while those of peak viscosity, hot viscosity, and breakdown decreased, with Yangdao 6 and Wuyujing 3 followed the similar pattern. The RHT increased the contents of Mg, K, and N, especially of K, resulting in a marked decrease of Mg/K and Mg/(N * AC * K) in the grain. The grain's amylase content (AC) of the two cultivars showed contrasting in response to temperature treatments. Wuyujing 3 performed decrease, while Yangdao 6 exhibited increase in AC values. The RHT at whole GFS affected the starch viscosity profile and the Mg and K contents most greatly, followed by the RHT at early GFS, and the RHT at later GFS. The period within 20 days after flowering was the key period during which temperature affected the grain's starch viscosity profile and Mg and K contents. The Mg/K and Mg/ (N * AC * K) in rice grain significant correlated with the characteristic values of starch viscosity profile, which could be used as the reference indices of rice eating quality.
19102319	Field experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of rice-duck farming on the water environment in paddy field. The results showed that under rice-duck farming, the temperature and pH value of the surface water in paddy field decreased, and the electrical conductivity, oxidation-reduction potential, turbidity, and the contents of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) increased. The total N, P, and K increased by 1.85-5.06 times, 2.01-8.70 times, and 42.79%-109.18%, respectively, as compared to those in conventional rice farming. All of these illustrated that rice-duck farming improved the paddy field water environment and nutrient supply, optimized the ecological environment of paddy field, and promoted the growth and development of rice.
19102324	The correlations between the situation indicators (peak time of ingoing, last length of peak period, and moth quantity in peak period) of rice leaf roller in Yixing, Yandu and Jingjiang of Jiangsu Province and the grid monthly sea surface temperature (SST) of west Pacific were analyzed by statistical method, and the correlation maps were produced by using GRADS software. The regions in which the SST was significantly correlated with the situation indicators were identified, and the SST at these regions, which was processed by optimization correlation technique, was used as the predictor to set up the long-term models for predicting the situation indicators of rice leaf roller during its immigration period in the three regions. The results showed that the immigration time of rice leaf roller in each of the regions was highly correlated with the SST in that region, and the duration of immigration peak was well correlated with the SST of west Pacific. The correlations between moth amount and SST were significant and stable, and showed some seasonality. Model calibrations indicated that the agreements between outputs from all models and observations were statistically significant (alpha = 0.01), and model validations demonstrated the applicability of the models developed in this study in predicting the situation indicators of rice leaf roller. These models were capable of predicting the possible occurrence situation of rice leaf roller one to two months in advance, being of significance in the prevention and control of rice leaf roller, suitable management of rice production, reduction of pesticide pollution, and protection of environment.
19102410	In Japan, distal gastrectomy is the most common operation performed to treat gastric cancer. However, this procedure often leads to postoperative problems such as weight loss. We assessed the changes of nutritional status early after operation and the associations of the postoperative body weight (as a percentage of the preoperative weight) and background factors in patients who underwent distal gastrectomy. We measured the changes of nutritional indices (mean body weight, TSF, AMC and Alb) and nutrition intake on the day before operation (before operation), before postoperative resumption of oral intake (before oral intake), and on the fifth day of a soft rice porridge diet (after soft rice). Background factors included gender, age, preoperative BMI and preoperative exercise. Mean body weight, TSF, and AMC significantly decreased from before operation, to the day before oral intake and to the day after soft rice. The postoperative body weight was not associated with the gender, age, or preoperative BMI. The frequency of regular preoperative exercise was associated with the postoperative body weight. The total daily calorie intake was 1,664 kcal (before operation), 398 kcal (before oral intake), and 949 kcal (after soft rice). To conclude, nutritional status changes significantly after distal gastrectomy. Early nutrition intervention may be needed in patients who undergo distal gastrectomy for gastric cancer.
19102526	Enols have been found to be important intermediates in the combustion flames of hydrocarbon [C. A. Taatjes et al., Science 308, 1887 (2005)]. The removal mechanism of enols in combustion flame has not been established yet. In this work, the potential energy surface for the unimolecular decomposition of syn-propen-2-ol and H + CH(2)COHCH(2) recombination reactions have been first investigated by CCSD(T) method. The barrier heights, reaction energies, and geometrical parameters of the reactants, products, intermediates, and transition states have been investigated theoretically. The results show that the formation of CH(3)CO + CH(3) via the CH(3)COCH(3) intermediate is dominant for the unimolecular decomposition of syn-propen-2-ol and its branching ratio is over 99% in the whole temperature range from 700 to 3000 K, and its rate constant can be expressed as an analytical form in the range of T=700-3000 K at atmospheric pressure. This can be attributed to the lower energy barrier of this channel compared to the other channels. The association reaction of H with CH(2)COHCH(2) is shown to be a little more complicated than the unimolecular decomposition of syn-propen-2-ol. The channel leading to CH(3)CO + CH(3) takes a key role in the whole temperature range at atmospheric pressure. However at the higher pressure of 100 atm, the recombination by direct formation of syn-propen-2-ol through H addition is important at T<1000 K. In the range of T>1400 K, the recombination channel leading to CH(3)CO + CH(3) turns out to be significant.
19103168	Drought is the largest constraint on rice production in Asia. Protein phosphorylation has been recognized as an important mechanism for environmental stress signaling. However, the differential expression of proteins and phosphoproteins induced by drought in rice is still largely unknown. In this paper, we report the identification of differentially expressed proteins and phosphoproteins induced by drought in rice using proteomic approaches. Three drought-responsive proteins were identified. Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA)-like protein and chloroplast Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD) were up-regulated by drought whereas Rieske Fe-S precursor protein was down-regulated. Ten drought-responsive phosphoproteins were identified: NAD-malate dehydrogenase, OSJNBa0084K20.14 protein, abscisic acid- and stress-inducible protein, ribosomal protein, drought-induced S-like ribonuclease, ethylene-inducible protein, guanine nucleotide-binding protein beta subunit-like protein, r40c1 protein, OSJNBb0039L24.13 protein and germin-like protein 1. Seven of these phosphoproteins have not previously been reported to be involved in rice drought stress. These results provide new insight into the regulatory mechanism of drought-induced proteins and implicate several previously unrecognized proteins in response to drought stress.
19103278	Left-handed Z-DNA is an energetically unfavorable DNA structure that could form mostly under certain physiological conditions and was known to be involved in a number of cellular activities such as transcription regulation. We have compared the distributions and functions of Z-DNA in the genomes of Arabidopsis and rice, and observed that Z-DNA occurs in rice at least 9 times more often than in Arabidopsis; similar observations hold for other monocots and dicots. In addition, Z-DNA is significantly enriched in the coding regions of Arabidopsis, and in the high-GC-content regions of rice. Based on our analyses, we speculate that Z-DNA may play a role in regulating the expression of transcription factors, inhibitors, translation repressors, succinate dehydrogenases and glutathione-disulfide reductases in Arabidopsis, and it may affect the expression of vesicle and nucleosome genes and genes involved in alcohol transporter activity, stem cell maintenance, meristem development and reproductive structure development in rice.
19103426	A dwarf mutant of rice (Oryza sativa L.) by mutagenesis of ethylene methylsulfonate (EMS) treatment from Nipponbare was identified. The mutant exhibited phenotypes of dwarfism and withered leaf tip (dwl1). Based on the internode length of dwl1, this mutant belongs to the dm type of dwarfing. Analysis of elongation of the second sheath and alpha-amylase activity in endosperm showed that the phenotype caused by dwl1 was insensitive to gibberellin acid treatment. Using a large F2 population derived from a cross between the dwl1 and an indica rice variety, TN1, the DWL1 gene was mapped to the terminal region of the long arm of chromosome 3. Fine-mapping delimited it into a 46 kb physical distance between two STS markers, HL921 and HL944, where 6 open reading frames were predicted. Cloning of DWL1 will contribute to dissecting molecular mechanism that regulates plant height in rice, which will be beneficial to molecular assisted selection of this important trait.
19103661	Small RNAs (sRNAs) are common and effective modulators of gene expression in eukaryotic organisms. To characterize the sRNAs expressed during rice seed development, massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) was performed, resulting in the obtainment of 797,399 22-nt sequence signatures, of which 111,161 are distinct ones. Analysis on the distributions of sRNAs on chromosomes showed that most sRNAs originate from interspersed repeats that mainly consist of transposable elements, suggesting the major function of sRNAs in rice seeds is transposon silencing. Through integrative analysis, 26 novel miRNAs and 12 miRNA candidates were identified. Further analysis on the expression profiles of the known and novel miRNAs through hybridizing the generated chips revealed that most miRNAs were expressed preferentially in one or two rice tissues. Detailed comparison of the expression patterns of miRNAs and corresponding target genes revealed the negative correlation between them, while few of them are positively correlated. In addition, differential accumulations of miRNAs and corresponding miRNA*s suggest the functions of miRNA*s other than being passenger strands of mature miRNAs, and in regulating the miRNA functions.
19104064	Rice tungro disease (RTD) is a significant yield constraint in rice-growing areas of South and Southeast Asia. Disease symptoms are caused largely by infection by the rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV). Two host transcription factors, RF2a and RF2b, regulate expression of the RTBV promoter and are important for plant development. Expression of a dominant negative mutant of these factors in transgenic rice resulted in phenotypes that mimic the symptoms of RTD, whereas overexpression of RF2a and RF2b had essentially no impact on plant development. Conversely, lines with elevated expression of RF2a or RF2b showed weak or no symptoms of infection after Agrobacterium inoculation of RTBV, whereas control plants showed severe stunting and leaf discoloration. Furthermore, transgenic plants exhibited reduced accumulation of RTBV RNA and viral DNA compared with nontransgenic plants. Similar results were obtained in studies after virus inoculation by green leafhoppers. Gaining disease resistance by elevating the expression of host regulators provides another strategy against RTD and may have implications for other pararetrovirus infections.
19106179	Microtubules (MTs) are assembled by heterodimers of alpha- and beta-tubulins, which provide tracks for directional transport and frameworks for the spindle apparatus and the phragmoplast. MT nucleation and dynamics are regulated by components such as the gamma-tubulin complex which are conserved among eukaryotes, and other components which are unique to plants. Following remarkable progress made in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana toward revealing key components regulating MT activities, the completed rice (Oryza sativa) genome has prompted a survey of the MT cytoskeleton in this important crop as a model for monocots. The rice genome contains three alpha-tubulin genes, eight beta-tubulin genes and a single gamma-tubulin gene. A functional gamma-tubulin ring complex is expected to form in rice as genes encoding all components of the complex are present. Among proteins that interact with MTs, compared with A. thaliana, rice has more genes encoding some members such as the MAP65/Ase1p/PRC1 family, but fewer for the motor kinesins, the end-binding protein EB1 and the mitotic kinase Aurora. Although most known MT-interacting factors have apparent orthologues in rice, no orthologues of arabidopsis RIC1 and MAP18 have been identified in rice. Among all proteins surveyed here, only a few have had their functions characterized by genetic means in rice. Elucidating functions of proteins of the rice MT cytoskeleton, aided by recent technical advances made in this model monocot, will greatly advance our knowledge of how monocots employ their MTs to regulate their growth and form.
19107534	In order to isolate inulinase overproducers of the marine yeast Pichia guilliermondii, strain 1, cells were mutated by using UV light and LiCl(2). One mutant (M-30) with enhanced inulinase production was obtained. Response surface methodology (RSM) was used to optimize the medium compositions and cultivation conditions for inulinase production by the mutant in solid-state fermentation. The initial moisture, inoculum, the amount ratio of wheat bran to rice bran, temperature, pH for the maximum inulinase production by the mutant M-30 were found to be 60.5%, 2.5%, 0.42, 30 degrees C and 6.50, respectively. Under the optimized conditions, 455.9 U/grams of dry substrate (gds) of inulinase activity was reached in the solid state fermentation culture of the mutant M-30 whereas the predicted maximum inulinase activity of 459.2 U/gds was derived from RSM regression. Under the same conditions, its parent strain only produced 291.0 U/gds of inulinase activity. This is the highest inulinase activity produced by the yeast strains reported so far.
1910873	Digestion of the total genomic DNA from rice Oryza sativa L. cv. C5924 with EcoRI generated an intense band of a DNA fragment of about 0.36 kb long. The DNA fragment cloned into pUC19 was used to hybridize with the total rice genomic DNA partially digested with EcoRI. A ladder of bands of DNA fragments with multiplied length of 0.36 kb was observed, demonstrating that this sequence occurs in tandem in the genome. The copy number of the sequence estimated by dot blot hybridization analysis was 2000-3000 copies per haploid genome from callus or seedling of C5924. This sequence was present in other O. sativa cultivars, such as Sasanishiki in 700-900 copies, Koshihikari in 3400-4300, and Nipponbare in 4600-6000 copies. Another rice species, O. glaberrima, also had this sequence in 540-680 copies, but four lines of foxtail millet had none. The DNA fragments containing the repeated sequences in Nipponbare were then cloned into lambda EMBL3, and sequences of nine units consecutively repeated and an AT-rich sequence connected with them in a phage clone could be determined. Each repeating unit showed sequence divergency mostly by substitution of bases in a range from 3% to 7%, when compared with a 355-bp consensus sequence. Analyses of the substituted bases indicate that these are due to spontaneous mutations which occurred at random, after reiteration of a unit sequence by unequal crossing over events. Gene conversion within the repeated sequences might have further diversified their sequences.
19109415	Plants uniquely contain large numbers of protein kinases, and for the vast majority of the 1,429 kinases predicted in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome, little is known of their functions. Genetic approaches often fail to produce observable phenotypes; thus, new strategies are needed to delineate kinase function. We previously developed a cost-effective high-throughput yeast two-hybrid system. Using this system, we have generated a protein interaction map of 116 representative rice kinases and 254 of their interacting proteins. Overall, the resulting interaction map supports a large number of known or predicted kinase-protein interactions from both plants and animals and reveals many new functional insights. Notably, we found a potential widespread role for E3 ubiquitin ligases in pathogen defense signaling mediated by receptor-like kinases, particularly by the kinases that may have evolved from recently expanded kinase subfamilies in rice. We anticipate that the data provided here will serve as a foundation for targeted functional studies in rice and other plants. The application of yeast two-hybrid and TAPtag analyses for large-scale plant protein interaction studies is also discussed.
19109878	The fall armyworm Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera; Noctuidae) consists of two distinct strains with different host plant preferences for corn and rice. To assess whether pheromonal-mediated behavioral isolation accompanies the habitat isolation on different host plants, we compared the sex pheromone composition among females of the two strains. Pheromone glands were extracted with or without injection of pheromone biosynthesis activating neuropeptide (PBAN). To assess the mode of inheritance of this variation, we also analyzed the pheromone composition of F1 hybrid females. Relative to intra-strain variation, the pheromone composition of the two strains differed significantly. Corn strain females contained significantly more of the second most abundant pheromone compound Z11-16:Ac (m), and significantly less of most other compounds, than rice strain females. When females were injected with PBAN before their glands were extracted, the differences between the strains were less pronounced but still statistically significant. The pheromone composition of hybrid females showed a maternal inheritance of the major component Z9-14:Ac (M) as well as of Z11-16:Ac (m). Most other compounds showed an inheritance indicating genetic dominance of the corn strain. The within-strain phenotypic correlations among the various components were consistent with their hypothesized biosynthetic pathway, and between-strain differences in the correlation structure suggested candidate genes that may explain the pheromone differences between the two strains. These include Delta9- and Delta11 desaturases, and possibly also a Delta7-desaturase, although the latter has not been identified in insects so far. The two host strains of S. frugiperda produce systematically differing female sex pheromone blends. Previously-documented geographic variation in the sexual communication of this species did not take strain identity into account, and thus may be partly explained by different strain occurrence in different regions. The finding of pheromone differences reinforces the possibility of incipient reproductive isolation among these strains, previously shown to differ in the timing of nocturnal mating activity and host plant use. Finding the genetic basis of the pheromone differences, as well as these other biological traits, will help to elucidate the role of premating isolation in the continuing differentiation of these two strains that may eventually lead to speciation.
19110296	Aquatic ecosystems of Doñana National Park (DNP) were monitored using Procambarus clarkii as bioindicator in four campaigns carried out between 2003 and 2004 to assess environmental quality possibly threatened by agrochemicals used in nearby areas. An integrated approach was carried out, by combining the responses of well-established biomarkers and the massive analysis of biological effects at the proteomic level. In sites potentially polluted, lower catalase, glucose-6-P dehydrogenase, and esterase activities, and higher malondialdehyde, metallothionein and glutathione levels were found. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis resolved >2500 gill spots, and image analysis detected that 35 showed significant intensity differences between the reference site and the other seven sites studied. The superiority of proteomic approaches was clearly recognized in our study since four different protein expression patterns were established based in the fold-number of up-/down-regulation of the 35 differentially expressed proteins. Sites located within Doñana Biological Reserve were essentially free of contaminants and those near the DNP limits were only slightly polluted. The higher proteomic responses found at the upper "Rocina" and "Partido" courses indicate that non-persistent agrochemicals are mainly used in Doñana surroundings. The highest responses corresponded to rice growing areas placed between the Guadiamar stream and the Guadalquivir River, according to the extended and intensive use of agrochemicals in such areas.
19110310	The problem of arsenic pollution of groundwater used for domestic water supplies is now well recognised in Bangladesh, India and some other countries of South and South-east Asia. However, it has recently become apparent that arsenic-polluted water used for irrigation is adding sufficient arsenic to soils and rice to pose serious threats to sustainable agricultural production in those countries and to the health and livelihoods of affected people. This paper reviews the nature of those threats, taking into account the natural sources of arsenic pollution, areas affected, factors influencing arsenic uptake by soils and plants, toxicity levels and the dietary risk to people consuming arsenic-contaminated rice.
19111640	A starch-hydrolyzing lactic acid bacterium, Lactobacillus plantarum L137, was isolated from traditional fermented food made from fish and rice in the Philippines. A gene (apuA) encoding an amylolytic enzyme from Lactobacillus plantarum L137 was cloned, and its nucleotide sequence was determined. The apuA gene consisted of an open reading frame of 6171 bp encoding a protein of 2056 amino acids, the molecular mass of which was calculated to be 215,625 Da. The catalytic domains of amylase and pullulanase were located in the same region within the middle of the N-terminal region. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed four highly conserved regions that are common among amylolytic enzymes. In the N-terminal region, a six-amino-acid sequence (Asp-Ala/Thr-Ala-Asn-Ser-Thr) is repeated 39 times, and a three-amino-acid sequence (Gln-Pro-Thr) is repeated 50 times in the C-terminal region. The apuA gene was subcloned in L. plantarum NCL21, which is a plasmid-cured derivative of the wild-type L137 strain and has no amylopullulanase activity, and the gene was overexpressed under the control of its own promoter. The ApuA enzyme from this recombinant L. plantarum NCL21 harboring apuA gene was purified. The enzyme has both alpha-amylase and pullulanase activities. The N-terminal sequence of the purified enzyme showed that the signal peptide was cleaved at Ala(36) and the molecular mass of the mature extracellular enzyme is 211,537 Da. The major reaction products from soluble starch were maltotriose (G3) and maltotetraose (G4). Only maltotriose (G3) was produced from pullulan. From these results, we concluded that ApuA is an amylolytic enzyme belonging to the amylopullulanase family.
19111645	Based on studies using laboratory strains, the efficiency of gene disruption in Aspergillus oryzae, commonly known as koji mold, is low; thus, gene disruption has rarely been applied to the breeding of koji mold. To evaluate the efficiency of gene disruption in industrial strains of A. oryzae, we produced ferrichrysin biosynthesis gene (dffA) disruptants using three different industrial strains as hosts. PCR analysis of 438 pyrithiamine-resistant transformants showed dffA gene disruption efficiency of 42.9%-64.1%, which is much higher than previously reported. Analysis of the physiological characteristics of the disruptants indicated that dffA gene disruption results in hypersensitivity to hydrogen peroxide. To investigate the industrial characteristics of dffA gene disruptants, two strains were used to make rice koji and their properties were compared to those of the host strains. No differences were found between the dffA gene disruptants and the host strains, except that the disruptants did not produce ferrichrysin. Thus, this gene disruption technique is much more effective than conventional mutagenesis for A. oryzae breeding.
1911214	Exposure to oxygen deprivation in vitro has been reported to cause drug resistance in CHO cells (Rice et al., 1986; PNAS 83, 5978) and enhancement of experimental metastatic (colonisation) ability of murine tumour cells (Young et al., 1988; PNAS 85, 9533). Both these studies also demonstrated the induction of a subpopulation of cells with excess DNA content. Since the micromilieu in tumours results in exposure of the tumour cells to conditions of acid pH and nutrient deprivation, as well as hypoxia, we have examined the effect of exposure to acidosis (pH 6.5) and glucose starvation on drug resistance, cellular DNA content and the experimental metastatic ability of KHT sarcoma and B16F1 melanoma cells. Cells were exposed to these conditions for 24 and 48 h and tested for resistance to methotrexate (MTX) or experimental metastatic ability either immediately following these exposures or after 24 or 48 h of recovery in normal growth medium. Both cell lines demonstrated an enhancement of colonisation potential, which was most marked when cells were injected after 48 h of exposure followed by a 24 or 48 h recovery period. Flow cytometric analysis demonstrated an increase in the fraction of KHT cells with excess DNA following both glucose starvation and acidosis we observed only a small increase in MTX resistance following acidic exposure of cells and no change following glucose starvation. Since both acidosis and glucose starvation are known to induce glucose regulated proteins (grp), a subset of the stress protein family, we studied the effect of treatment with another known inducer, 2-deoxyglucose. We found that this agent affected the metastatic efficiency of KHT cells in a manner similar to that observed following exposure to glucose starvation and acidosis. However, further studies are required to establish what role, if any, grp play in this effect. In conclusion this study shows that transient exposure of murine tumour cells to an acidic or glucose deprived environment can cause progression in terms of metastatic potential.
19112560	To understand the physiological mechanism that confers Cd sensitivity/tolerance, Cd uptake and translocation by Cd-sensitive mutant and wild-type rice seedlings were characterized using radioactive tracer. Time-dependent Cd accumulation during 210 min was 1.8-fold higher in roots of the mutant than of wild-type rice. The kinetics of Cd uptake showed that two processes were involved: a first, fast, probably passive process and a second, slower, possibly physiological process. After 96 h, more Cd was translocated to the shoot of mutant compared with wild-type rice. Low temperature (2 degrees C), carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone, and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide inhibited Cd accumulation to a greater extent in mutant than wild-type rice, suggesting that metabolism plays a more important role in Cd uptake for the rice mutant. Cd uptake into the symplasm is linked to Ca2+ transport, as revealed by the inhibition of Cd accumulation by La and high Ca by equal percentages in both mutant and wild-type rice. Cd uptake and root-to-shoot translocation in the mutant were inhibited more markedly by Zn and Mn than in wild-type rice. This indicates that transport sites other than entry into the root symplasm are also stimulated in the mutant. The results suggest that enhanced absorption into the root and further accumulation in the shoot is one of the mechanisms involved in Cd accumulation and sensitivity, and the difference in Cd uptake and root-to-shoot translocation between mutant and wild-type rice may be mediated partly by energy supply and transporters for Zn and Mn.
19112585	Trace metals always act as cofactors or coenzymes in many cellular processes. Deficiency or excess of some metals will affect the fermentation of lignocellulosic hydrolysate. In order to make sure the deficient or excessive states of metals in culture medium, metal contents analysis was conducted in Pichia stipitis ATCC 58784 cells, synthetic medium, and diluted acid hydrolysate of rice straw. The results showed that Cu, Ni, and Co were deficient, and Al was a little excessive. So the influences of Cu(2+), Al(3+), Ni(2+), and Co(2+) additions on the growth and ethanol production of ATCC 58784 were further researched. Low concentration additions of Cu(2+) and Al(3+) (<0.24 mM and <0.23 mM, respectively) improved biomass growth of ATCC 58784 by 34 and 13%, respectively; however, higher concentrations decreased biomass growth. On the other hand, addition of Cu(2+) (0.39 mM) did not affect volumetric ethanol production significantly (P = 0.05) and addition of Al(3+) (0.38 mM) showed no influence on volumetric ethanol production (P = 0.68). Addition of 0.074 mM Co(2+) inhibited biomass growth of ATCC 58784 by 13% and volumetric ethanol production by 10%. The biomass growth and volumetric ethanol production of ATCC 58784 was arrested by the addition of 0.33 mM of Ni(2+) by 53 and 65%, respectively.
19113105	We present a rice-pile cellular automaton model that includes inertial and friction effects. This model is studied in one dimension, where the updating of metastable sites is done according to a stochastic dynamics governed by a probabilistic toppling parameter p that depends on the accumulated energy of moving grains. We investigate the scaling properties of the model using finite-size scaling analysis. The avalanche size, the lifetime, and the residence time distributions exhibit a power-law behavior. Their corresponding critical exponents, respectively, tau, y, and yr, are not universal. They present continuous variation versus the parameters of the system. The maximal value of the critical exponent tau that our model gives is very close to the experimental one, tau=2.02 [Frette, Nature (London) 379, 49 (1996)], and the probability distribution of the residence time is in good agreement with the experimental results. We note that the critical behavior is observed only in a certain range of parameter values of the system which correspond to low inertia and high friction.
19114391	Rice is commonly consumed in the Philippines; however the contribution of other foods to the diet is not well defined. Our aim was to determine the nutrient intake and food group intake of Philippine nuns and compare their intakes to the current estimated average requirements (EAR), and food-based recommendations, respectively, and assess any differences in nutrient adequacy and energy intakes between body mass index (BMI) categories. Body weight was assessed at baseline and at nine months; three-day weighed food intakes were recorded once every fortnight (n=187). At baseline, the mean (SD) age and BMI of the women was: 25.0 (4.6) years and 21.8 (17.3) kg/m2, respectively. Over the nine months, women with an underweight (n=46;<18.5 kg/m2) and acceptable BMI (n=132; 18.5-25 kg/m2) lost 5.0 kg (p=0.005) and 1.5 kg (p=0.047), respectively, whereas overweight women maintained their weight. Irrespective of BMI, 98% of women consumed less than the adequate intake for calcium, and no one met the folate EAR. The intake of all food groups (e.g., rice, vegetables, fruit, meat, dairy) was lower than food-based recommendations. It is evident that the nutrient density of the Philippine diet is poor. In order to meet nutrient requirements, it is recommended that all women increase intake of fruits, vegetables, fish, meat and dairy products, to reduce risk of micronutrient deficiencies. For the overweight women, these nutrient dense foods also are recommended, however it is important that they be substituted for energy dense foods to promote weight loss and prevent weight gain.
19114406	Naturally viscous vegetables and natto, made by fermenting soybeans, are very palatable and considered to be healthy foods in Japan. The objective was to assess whether the consumption of natto and viscous vegetables as part of a traditional Japanese breakfast based on high-glycemic index white rice affects glycemic, insulinemic, lipidemic and satiety responses in healthy subjects. Eleven healthy subjects consumed the reference, control and test meals in a randomized cross-over design. The test meal, comprising 200 g of boiled white rice with viscous meal (50 g natto, 60 g Japanese yams and 40 g okras), and the control meal, comprising 200 g of white rice with non-viscous boiled soybeans, potatoes and broccoli, contained comparable amounts of carbohydrate, fat, protein and fiber. In addition, whiter rice was used as a reference meal. Blood samples over 180 min were analyzed for glucose, insulin, non-esterified free fatty acid and triacylglyceride. Peak glucose and insulin concentrations after the test meal (6.0 mmol/L and 262 pmol/L) were significantly lower than after the control meal (6.8 mmol/L and 360 pmol/L). The incremental areas under the curve for glucose and insulin over 0-120 min after the test meal were also significantly reduced as compared with the control meal (28 and 27%). The consumption of naturally viscous vegetables with white rice reduced acute glycemia and insulinemia. This practical dietary combination would ensure compliance and favorably alter the risk for diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.
19115483	Autophagy, a conserved pathway for bulk cellular degradation and recycling in eukaryotes, regulates proper turnover of organelles, membranes and certain proteins. Such regulated degradation is important for cell growth and development particularly during environmental stress conditions, which act as key inducers of autophagy. We found that autophagy and MoATG8 were significantly induced during asexual development in Magnaporthe oryzae. An RFP-tagged MoAtg8 showed specific localization and enrichment in aerial hyphae, conidiophores and conidia. We confirmed that loss of MoATG8 results in dramatically reduced ability to form conidia, the asexual spores that propagate rice-blast disease. Exogenous supply of glucose or sucrose significantly suppressed the conidiation defects in a MoATG8-deletion mutant. Comparative proteomics based identification and characterization of Gph1, a glycogen phosphorylase that catalyzes glycogen breakdown, indicated that autophagy-assisted glycogen homeostasis is likely important for proper aerial growth and conidiation in Magnaporthe. Loss of Gph1, or addition of G6P significantly restored conidiation in the Moatg8Delta mutant. Overproduction of Gph1 led to reduced conidiation in wild-type Magnaporthe strain. We propose that glycogen autophagy actively responds to and regulates carbon utilization required for cell growth and differentiation during asexual development in Magnaporthe.
19116041	Japanese encephalitis (JE), a vector-borne viral disease, is endemic to large parts of Asia and the Pacific. An estimated 3 billion people are at risk, and JE has recently spread to new territories. Vaccination programs, increased living standards, and mechanization of agriculture are key factors in the decline in the incidence of this disease in Japan and South Korea. However, transmission of JE is likely to increase in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, North Korea, and Pakistan because of population growth, intensified rice farming, pig rearing, and the lack of vaccination programs and surveillance. On a global scale, however, the incidence of JE may decline as a result of large-scale vaccination programs implemented in China and India.
19116133	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) plays a central role in controlling a vast array of plant biochemical and physiological processes. It is regulated by a characteristic phosphorelay system in which a series of three kinases phosphorylate and activate each other. Over the past years, several plants MAPKs have been identified and characterized. Of these, rice OsSIPK (Salicylic acid (SA)-Induced Protein Kinase) and its orthologs in other plants are of particular interest. A large body of evidence demonstrates the involvement of SIPKs in fine-tuned regulation of the plant responses to ozone, wounding, SA, and jasmonic acid (JA). Interestingly, their function appears to be conserved across reference plants, such as rice, tobacco, and Arabidopsis. In this minireview, we discuss the recent progress on rice OsSIPK and its orthologs as a "central master switch" for mediating plant responses against ozone, wounding, and JA as examples.
19116760	Culm mechanical strength is an important agronomic trait in crop breeding. To understand the molecular mechanisms that control culm mechanical strength, we identified a flexible culm1 (fc1) mutant by screening a rice T-DNA insertion mutant library. This mutant exhibited an abnormal development phenotype, including late heading time, semi-dwarf habit, and flexible culm. In this study, we cloned the FLEXIBLE CULM1 (FC1) gene in rice using a T-DNA tagging approach. FC1 encodes a cinnamyl-alcohol dehydrogenase and is mainly expressed in the sclerenchyma cells of the secondary cell wall and vascular bundle region. In these types of cells, a deficiency of FC1 in the fc1 mutant caused a reduction in cell wall thickness, as well as a decrease in lignin. Extracts from the first internodes and panicles of the fc1 plants exhibited drastically reduced cinnamyl-alcohol dehydrogenase activity. Further histological and biochemical analyses revealed that the p-hydroxyphenyl and guaiacyl monomers in fc1 cell wall were reduced greatly. Our results indicated that FC1 plays an important role in the biosynthesis of lignin and the control of culm strength in rice.
19117206	Lipoxygenase from Khao Dawk Mali 105 aromatic brown rice was isolated by extracting brown rice liquid nitrogen powder using 0.2 M phosphate buffer pH 7, fractionating with 30-60% (NH(4))(2)SO(4), dialyzing and gel filtration on Sephadex G-200. The optimum pHs for dialyzed lipoxygenase activity were around 7.5 and 9.5. The enzyme appeared to be completely inactivated after heating 30 min at 70 degrees C, 20 min at 80 degrees C and 10 min at 90 degrees C. The enzyme could be inhibited by MgCl(2), ZnCl(2), KCl, BHA, vitamin E, vitamin C, and BHT; however, CaCl(2) acted as the enzyme activator.
19117417	A series of novel 12-(aryloxyacyloxyimino)-1,15-pentadecanlactone derivatives (3) were synthesized, and their structures including configuration of C=N bond were confirmed by (1)H NMR, elemental analysis and X-ray diffraction analysis. The bioassay showed that some of them exhibited excellent herbicidal activity against Amaranthus tricolor L. The activity of compounds 3 except compounds 3A1-2 was much higher than the commercial herbicide 2,4-D and the activity of about half of compounds 3 was comparable to the commercial herbicide tribenuron-methyl. The further bioassay showed that the representative of compounds 3, 3A1-12, exhibited excellent herbicidal activity not only against dicotyledon, such as Amaranthus tricolor L., Cucumis sativus L., Glycine max L., and Phaseolus radiatus L., but also against monocotyledon, such as Zea mays L. and Oryza sativa L.
19117763	Grain filling is usually not adequate in later-flowering inferior spikelets in japonica/indica (J/I) hybrid rice (Oryza sativa) although it shows stronger hybrid vigor than indica/indica (I/I) hybrid. This study investigated the potential causes by examining changes in zeatin (Z)+zeatin riboside (ZR), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), gibberellins (GAs, GA(1)+GA(4)), and abscisic acid (ABA) in spikelets and roots during the grain filling period. The inferior spikelets of J/I hybrid exhibited low rate of endosperm cell division and slow grain filling. During the early grain filing period, they had less Z+ZR, IAA, and ABA, but more GAs, than the earlier-flowering superior spikelets. If compared to the inferior spikelets of the I/I hybrid, the J/I inferior spikelets also had less Z+ZR, IAA, and ABA. Rates of endosperm cell division and grain filling were positively and significantly correlated with Z+ZR and ABA contents in both grains and roots or IAA in grains, whereas not significantly correlated with GAs either in grains or roots or IAA in roots. Applications of kinetin, IAA, or ABA to spikelets, or kinetin and ABA to roots, enhanced cell division and grain filling in the inferior spikelets. Results suggest that low contents of cytokinins and ABA in both grains and roots and low contents of IAA in grains may result in the poor filling of inferior spikelets in the J/I hybrid.
19118127	Alternative usage of transcription start sites (TSSs) is one of the key mechanisms to generate gene variation in eukaryotes. Here, we show diversified molecular evolution of TSSs in remotely related flowering plants, rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), by comprehensive analyses of large collections of full-length cDNAs and genome sequences. We determined 45,917 representative TSSs within 23,445 loci of rice and 35,313 TSSs within 16,964 loci of Arabidopsis, about two TSSs per locus in either species. The nucleotide features around TSSs displayed distinct patterns when the most upstream TSSs were compared with downstream TSSs. We found that CG-skew and AT-skew were clearly different between upstream and downstream TSSs, and that this difference was commonly observed in rice and Arabidopsis. Relative entropy analysis revealed that the most upstream TSSs had retained canonical cis elements, whereas downstream TSSs showed atypical nucleotide features. Expression patterns were distinguishable between upstream and downstream TSSs. These results indicate that plant TSSs were generally diversified in downstream regions, resulting in the development of new gene expression patterns. Furthermore, our comparative analysis of TSS variation between the species showed a positive correlation between TSS number and gene conservation. Rice and Arabidopsis might have evolved novel TSSs in an independent manner, which led to diversification of these two species.
19118651	Extracellular matrix proteins play crucial roles in plant development, morphogenesis, cell division, and proliferation. To identify extracellular proteins that regulate cell growth, the soluble proteins of extracellular matrix were extracted from suspension-cultured rice cells for different lengths of time. The extract obtained from 3-d cultures was found to increase cells' fresh weight, while extracts from 6-d and 9-d cultures showed no effect on cells' growth. A comparative proteomic analysis was used to identify soluble extracellular proteins differentially expressed between 3 and 6 days in suspension-cultured cells. Ten unique protein spots were isolated and identified by mass spectrometry. Among them, included a cysteine protease (OsCP) and a putative cysteine protease inhibitor (cystatin, OC-I). OsCP has been down regulated in vivo using RNAi transgenic lines. The fresh and dry weight growth rates of OsCP RNAi cell lines were lower than empty vector control. Recombinant protein of OC-I could inhibit the OsCP protease activity, also it could inhibit the weight increase of suspension-culture cell as well as extracellular protease activity. These results suggest that OsCP and OC-I may be involved in the process of suspension-cultured rice cells proliferation.
19118654	Barley is a major cereal crop grown mainly for feed and malting. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis has been used to analyse barley proteins for over 20 years and more recently, mass spectrometry was applied. In the absence of a genome sequence, barley gene and EST sequences combined with information from rice and other cereals facilitate identification of barley proteins. Several hundred barley seed proteins are identified and lower abundance proteins including membrane proteins are now being analysed. In the present review we focus on variation in protein profiles of seed tissues during grain filling, maturation, germination and radicle elongation. Cultivar comparisons and genetic mapping of polymorphic protein spots in doubled haploid populations provide a means to link the genome to the proteome and identify proteins that can influence grain quality. Many proteins appear in multiple forms on 2D-gels. Specific protein families, including peroxidases and alpha-amylases have been subjected to in-depth analysis resulting in characterisation of different isozymes, post-translational modifications and processing. A functional proteomics study focusing on the seed thioredoxin system has led to identification of thioredoxin target proteins, quantitative analysis of reduction of individual target disulphides and structural studies to gain insight into determinants for target protein recognition by thioredoxin.
19119000	In this study, production of biodiesel from low cost raw materials, such as rice bran and dewaxed-degummed rice bran oil (DDRBO), under supercritical condition was carried out. Carbon dioxide (CO2) was employed as co-solvent to decrease the supercritical temperature and pressure of methanol. The effects of different raw materials on the yield of biodiesel production were investigated. In situ transesterification of rice bran with supercritical methanol at 30MPa and 300 degrees C for 5 min was not a promising way to produce biodiesel because the purity and yield of fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) obtained were 52.52% and 51.28%, respectively. When DDRBO was reacted, the purity and yield were 89.25% and 94.84%, respectively. Trans-FAMEs, which constituted about 16% of biodiesel, were found. They were identified as methyl elaidate [trans-9], methyl linoleaidate [trans-9, trans-12], methyl linoleaidate [cis-9, trans-12], and methyl linoleaidate [trans-9, cis-12]. Hydrocarbons, which constituted about 3% of the reaction product, were also detected.
19120257	Ctenocephalides felis felis is a flea species that parasitizes dogs and cats. The current study verified the in vitro virulence of the entomopathogenic fungi Metarhizium anisopliae and Beauveria bassiana to eggs and adults of C. felis felis. The fungal isolates were cultivated on rice grains in plastic bags. Conidial suspensions were then prepared by immersing the grains in Tween 80 aqueous solution (0.01%). Eggs and adults of C. felis felis were obtained from a laboratory colony. Experiments were composed of one control and four treatment groups (10(5), 10(6), 10(7), and 10(8) conidia mL(-1)). Both insect pathogens inhibited egg hatchability and caused adult mortality. Among isolates used in this study, M. anisopliae (isolate E9) was the most successful at inhibiting hatching, while B. bassiana (isolate 986) was the most powerful for causing mortality in adults. The results indicate that these entomopathogenic fungi have promising potential for use in controlling both C. felis felis egg and adult stages.
19120446	Carotenoid cleavage products--apocarotenoids--include biologically active compounds, such as hormones, pigments and volatiles. Their biosynthesis is initiated by the oxidative cleavage of C-C double bonds in carotenoid backbones, leading to aldehydes and/or ketones. This step is catalyzed by carotenoid oxygenases, which constitute an ubiquitous enzyme family, including the group of plant carotenoid cleavage dioxygenases 1 (CCD1s), which mediates the formation of volatile C(13) ketones, such as beta-ionone, by cleaving the C9-C10 and C9'-C10' double bonds of cyclic and acyclic carotenoids. Recently, it was reported that plant CCD1s also act on the C5-C6/C5'-C6' double bonds of acyclic carotenes, leading to the volatile C(8) ketone 6-methyl-5-hepten-2-one. Using in vitro and in vivo assays, we show here that rice CCD1 converts lycopene into the three different volatiles, pseudoionone, 6-methyl-5-hepten-2-one, and geranial (C(10)), suggesting that the C7-C8/C7'-C8' double bonds of acyclic carotenoid ends constitute a novel cleavage site for the CCD1 plant subfamily. The results were confirmed by HPLC, LC-MS and GC-MS analyses, and further substantiated by in vitro incubations with the monocyclic carotenoid 3-OH-gamma-carotene and with linear synthetic substrates. Bicyclic carotenoids were cleaved, as reported for other plant CCD1s, at the C9-C10 and C9'-C10' double bonds. Our study reveals a novel source for the widely occurring plant volatile geranial, which is the cleavage of noncyclic ends of carotenoids.
19120615	To characterize the volatile antifungal compound produced by Oxyporus latemarginatus EF069 and to examine in vitro and in vivo fumigation activity of the fungus. An antifungal volatile-producing strain, O. latemarginatus EF069 inhibited the mycelial growth of Alternaria alternata, Botrytis cinerea, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici, and Rhizoctonia solani by mycofumigation. An antifungal volatile compound was isolated from the hexane extract of wheat bran-rice hull cultures of O. latemarginatus EF069 by repeated silica gel column chromatography and identified as 5-pentyl-2-furaldehyde (PTF). The purified PTF inhibited mycelial growth of R. solani in a dose-dependent manner. The mycofumigation with solid cultures of EF069 also reduced effectively the development of postharvest apple decay caused by B. cinerea and Rhizoctonia root rot of moth orchid caused by R. solani. Oxyporus latemarginatus EF069 showed in vitro and in vivo fumigation activity against plant pathogenic fungi by producing 5-pentyl-2-furaldehyde. Oxyporus latemarginatus EF069 producing an antifungal volatile compound may be used as a biofumigant for the control of fungal plant diseases.
19120872	The pathogenesis of Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) is not fully understood. The interaction between intestinal environmental factors of food and intestinal microbes and the immunological system of hosts seems to be an important aspect. We have reviewed the relationship of the daily consumption of dietary animal meat and fats, dairy products, sugar, and other factors that may be linked to the occurrence of CD and UC from the literature and Japanese epidemiological data. In the present study, we reviewed the association between food and intestinal microbes and other factors contributing to the occurence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) from epidemiological data and case-control studies of IBD in the literature that appeared on Medline, and assessed the reports of intestinal microbes involved in the occurrence of IBD. We found several papers describing the positive association of animal meat and sweets and sugar with the occurrence of CD and UC. An analysis of Japanese epidemiological data suggested that the registered number of patients with CD or UC started to increase more than 20 years after an increased daily consumption of dietary animal meat and fats, and milk and dairy products, and after a decreased consumption of rice. Many studies implied a positive role of intestinal microbes in the occurrence of IBD. Intestinal environmental factors, such as Westernized food and intestinal microbes, seem to be involved in the increased occurrence of IBD.
19121101	We investigated variations in aluminum (Al) tolerance among rice plants, using ancestor cultivars from the family line of the Al-tolerant and widely cultivated Japonica cultivar, Sasanishiki. The cultivar Rikuu-20 was Al sensitive, whereas a closely related cultivar that is a descendant of Rikuu-20, Rikuu-132, was Al tolerant. These two cultivars were compared to determine mechanisms underlying variations in Al tolerance. The sensitive cultivar Rikuu-20 showed increased permeability of the plasma membrane (PM) and greater Al uptake within 1 h of Al treatment. This could not be explained by organic acid release. Lipid composition of the PM differed between these cultivars, and may account for the difference in Al tolerance. The tolerant cultivar Rikuu-132 had a lower ratio of phospholipids to Delta(5)-sterols than the sensitive cultivar Rikuu-20, suggesting that the PM of Rikuu-132 is less negatively charged and less permeabilized than that of Rikuu-20. We used inhibitors of Delta(5)-sterol synthesis to alter the ratio of phospholipids to Delta(5)-sterols in both cultivars. These inhibitors reduced Al tolerance in Rikuu-132 and its Al-tolerant ancestor cultivars Kamenoo and Kyoku. In addition, Rikuu-132 showed a similar level of Al sensitivity when the ratio of phospholipids to Delta(5)-sterols was increased to match that of Rikuu-20 after treatment with uniconazole-P, an inhibitor of obtusifoliol-14alpha-demethylase. These results indicate that PM lipid composition is a factor underlying variations in Al tolerance among rice cultivars.
19122662	The functions of the plant body rely on interactions among distinct and nonequivalent cell types. The comparison of transcriptomes from different cell types should expose the transcriptional networks that underlie cellular attributes and contributions. Using laser microdissection and microarray profiling, we have produced a cell type transcriptome atlas that includes 40 cell types from rice (Oryza sativa) shoot, root and germinating seed at several developmental stages, providing patterns of cell specificity for individual genes and gene classes. Cell type comparisons uncovered previously unrecognized properties, including cell-specific promoter motifs and coexpressed cognate binding factor candidates, interaction partner candidates and hormone response centers. We inferred developmental regulatory hierarchies of gene expression in specific cell types by comparison of several stages within root, shoot and embryo.
19123004	Glutamine synthetase (GS; EC 6.3.1.2) is a key enzyme in nitrogen metabolism; it catalyzes the critical incorporation of inorganic ammonium into glutamine. Two full-length cDNAs that encode the rice (Oryza sativa) cytosolic glutamine synthetase1 genes (OsGS1;1 and OsGS1;2) were isolated from a Minghui 63 normalized cDNA library, and glnA encoding GS in Escherichia coli was isolated by PCR amplification. Transformants for GS gene (GS1;1, GS1;2, and glnA) in rice were produced by an Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation method, and transcripts of GS gene accumulated at higher levels in the primary transgenic plants. Our results indicated an increased metabolic level in GS-overexpressed plants, which showed higher total GS activities and soluble protein concentrations in leaves and higher total amino acids and total nitrogen content in the whole plant. Decreases in both grain yield production and total amino acids were observed in seeds of GS-overexpressed plants compared with wild-type plants. In addition, GS1;2-overexpressed plants exhibited resistance to Basta selection and higher sensitivity to salt, drought, and cold stress conditions, whereas the other two types of GS-overexpressed plants failed to show any significant changes for these stress conditions compared with wild-type plants.
19123010	An endogenous 0.6-kb rice DNA transposon, nDart1-0, was found as an active nonautonomous element in a mutable virescent line, pyl-v, displaying leaf variegations. Here, we demonstrated that the active autonomous element aDart in pyl-v corresponds to Dart1-27 on chromosome 6 in Nipponbare, which carries no active aDart elements, and that aDart and Dart1-27 are identical in their sequences and chromosomal locations, indicating that Dart1-27 is epigenetically silenced in Nipponbare. The identification of aDart in pyl-v was first performed by map-based cloning and by detection of the accumulated transposase transcripts. Subsequently, various transposition activities of the cloned Dart1-27 element from Nipponbare were demonstrated in Arabidopsis. Dart1-27 in Arabidopsis was able to excise nDart1-0 and Dart1-27 from cloned sites, generating footprints, and to integrate into new sites, generating 8-bp target site duplications. In addition to Dart1-27, Nipponbare contains 37 putative autonomous Dart1 elements because their putative transposase genes carry no apparent nonsense or frameshift mutations. Of these, at least four elements were shown to become active aDart elements in transgenic Arabidopsis plants, even though considerable sequence divergence arose among their transposases. Thus, these four Dart1 elements and Dart1-27 in Nipponbare must be potential autonomous elements silenced epigenetically. The regulatory and evolutionary implications of the autonomous Dart1 elements and the development of an efficient transposon-tagging system in rice are discussed.
19123359	A hydroponic experiment combined with subcellular fractionation and gel filtration was carried out to study the chemical forms and subcellular and molecular distribution of Cd in rice roots and leaves, and to compare the differences between the rice varieties 'Guangyuanzhan No. 3' (a low-Cd accumulation genotype) and 'Zhenguiai' (a high-Cd accumulation genotype). The results showed that with increasing concentration of Cd in the medium, the Cd content in all fractions of rice roots and leaves increased significantly, and most of Cd accumulated in F I (cell wall) and F III (soluble substance). Compared with 'Guangyuanzhan No. 3', 'Zhenguiai' had a significantly higher soluble fraction of Cd in its roots and leaves. The greatest amount of Cd in roots and leaves was in the extraction solution of 1 mol x L(-1) NaCl, followed by in 2% HAC, and 0.6 mol x L(-1) HCl. In comparison with 'Guangyuanzhan No. 3', 'Zhenguiai' had a higher proportion of d-H2O and 80% ethanol extractable-Cd, the more mobile form of Cd. In the two rice varieties, the soluble Cd eluted followed the same pattern as the soluble protein in the sample medium, and the majority of soluble Cd was bounded to phytochelatins (PCs) or low molecular weight components. However, the Cd-PCs content in 'Guangyuanzhan No. 3' roots was much lower than that in 'Zhenguiai' roots, which could possibly result in a lower Cd mobility in roots and less Cd translocation from root to aboveground part.
19123361	Taking barnyard grass (Echinochloa crus-galli), allelopathic rice (Oryza sativa) PI312777, and non-allelopathic rice Liaojing-9 as test materials, this paper studied the changes of microbial biomass C and of dehydrogenase, urease and invertase activities in soils under 1 : 1 rice-barnyard grass coexistence. The results showed that with the coexistence of barnyard grass, the microbial biomass C in rhizosphere soil of PI312777 was decreased by 50.52% (P < 0.01), while that in inter-row soil was increased. The microbial biomass C in rhizosphere soil of Liaojing-9 was also decreased by 38.99% (P < 0.01), but no significant difference was observed in inter-row soil. The dehydrogenase activity in rhizosphere soils of the two rice varieties were decreased by 20% or more (P < 0.05), but the urease and invertase activities in rhizosphere soil of PI312777 were significantly stimulated (P < 0.01). The invertase activity in rhizosphere soil of Liaojing-9 was inhibited by coexisting barnyard grass, but urease activity had less change. As a result, the allelopathic traits of rice variety led to a significant decrease of microbial biomass C and an increase of urease and invertase activities in rhizosphere soil under barnyard grass coexistence, implying that soil microbial biomass and enzymes might play essential roles in species interactions between rice and barnyard grass, and allelopathic rice had its advantage in resistance to barnyard grass.
19123364	By the methods of emergy, this paper studied the input and output, working efficiency, and environmental loading of the agro-ecolomic system in Shanxi Province in 2005. The results showed that in 2005, the agro-ecolomic system in Shanxi still stayed in the period of traditional agriculture, which mainly depended on manpower and environmental resources. The emergy investment ratio (EIR) was 1.07, emergy yield ratio (EYR) was 0.99, and environmental loading ratio (ELR) was 6.55. In the structural adjustment of agriculture, stockbreeding had made great strides forward, but grain crops other than rice and wheat, vegetables, and fruits still had smaller emergy yield and were far from becoming dominant industry. The efficiency of the agro-ecolomic system was lower, and its environmental loading press was bigger. For the future, the surplus labors in agriculture in Shanxi should be shifted continually to other industries, and the high quality emergy such as agricultural science and technology should be increased to improve the use efficiency of environmental resources and the input and output of the system emergy.
19123418	Chinese rice wine has a history of more than 5000 years, only in China, hich is called "Nation Wine", and Shao Xing Chinese rice wine is a representative of it. The fluorescence spectra of 3 kinds of Shao Xing Chinese rice wine with different storage age induced by suitable UV-light were obtained in the present paper through experiment. The authors compared and analyzed them comprehensively by using three dimensional contour and two dimensional fluorescence technique, and found that their best induced light was all in the vicinity of 370 nm. The peak wavelength of 3 year storage age wine was 504 nm, while 488 nm and 505 nm were for 5 and 8 year storage age wine respectively. The emitted fluorescence existed in 400 to 680 nm, which had wide peak. More over, the emitting mechanism of Shao Xing Chinese rice wine was discussed. The authors also have explained the similarity and difference of fluorescence spectra among the 3 kinds of wine. The reason for wide fluorescence peak was also analyzed. This investigation contributes to the study of the characteristic, year detection and food safety of Chinese rice wine.
19123447
19124302	In many health studies of the elderly population, the subjects have cognitive or linguistic impairments, so data need to be collected from surrogates. This study compares dietary and lifestyle information reported by elderly Chinese with those provided by their spouses. Community couples 60 years and older were recruited to participate in an interview. One person from each couple was randomly chosen as the index person. Characteristics concerning the index person were then solicited from that person and separately from his or her spouse using validated questionnaires. For the 128 food items considered, the mean kappa was 0.73 for both frequency (SD 0.18) and amount (SD 0.22) of intake, and more than 70% of the couples had kappa statistics exceeding 0.61. Food items exhibiting high agreement between the spouses include rice, apples, tomatoes, and pork chops. The proportion of perfect agreement was higher than 80% for physical activity, smoking, and tea drinking behaviors. In conclusion, the spouse can serve as a proxy to provide reliable information when his or her partner is unavailable.
1912499	Strong hybridization signals were obtained from total DNA of two conifers, lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) and Norway spruce (Picea abies), in a Southern blot analysis using a probe derived from the chloroplast gidA gene of the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. The pine fragments detected by the probe were found to originate from the chloroplast genome and, as judged by the signal intensity, this was also true for the spruce fragments. Sequence analysis of the hybridizing pine chloroplast DNA region revealed an open reading frame potentially encoding a 459 amino acid polypeptide, highly homologous to that deduced from the algal gene and to ORF465 of liverwort chloroplast DNA. Upstream of the gidA sequence, we found a trnN(GUU) gene and an open reading frame of 291 codons which was 78% identical to the frxC gene of liverwort. Since ORF465 is located immediately downstream of trnN and frxC in liverwort, the genetic organization of this region is very similar in the two plants. In contrast, neither the gidA nor the frxC gene is present in the chloroplast DNA of tobacco or rice. It was recently reported that deletions in the gidA region of the chloroplast genome of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii abolish the light-independent pathway of chlorophyll synthesis which exists in many algae and lower plants. The presence of the gidA gene on the chloroplast genomes of conifers may therefore be of significance with respect to the ability of these plants to synthesize chlorophyll in the dark.
19125228	Hot-compressed water (HCW) is among several cost-effective pretreatment processes of lignocellulosic biomass for enzymatic hydrolysis. The present work investigated the characteristics of HCW pretreatment of rice straw including sugar production and inhibitor formation in the liquid fraction and enzymatic hydrolysis of pretreated material. Pretreatment was carried out at a temperature ranging from 140 to 240 degrees C for 10 or 30 min. Soluble oligosaccharides were found to constitute almost all the components of total sugars in the liquid fraction. The maximal production of total glucose at 180 degrees C and below accounted for 4.4-4.9% of glucan in raw material. Total xylose production peaked at 180 degrees C, accounting for 43.3% of xylan in raw material for 10-min pretreatment and 29.8% for 30-min pretreatment. The production of acetic acid increased at higher temperatures and longer treatment time, indicating more significant disruption of lignocellulosic structure, and furfural production achieved the maximum (2.8 mg/ml) at 200 degrees C for both 10-min and 30-min processes. The glucose yield by enzymatic hydrolysis of pretreated rice straw was no less than 85% at 180 degrees C and above for 30-min pretreatment and at 200 degrees C and above for 10-min pretreatment. Considering sugar recovery, inhibitor formation, and process severity, it is recommended that a temperature of 180 degrees C for a time of 30 min can be the most efficient process for HCW pretreatment of rice straw.
19125659	Although herons and egrets in the family Ardeidae frequently have been associated with viruses in the Japanese encephalitis virus serocomplex, communal nesting colonies do not appear to be a focus of early season and rapid amplification of West Nile virus (WNV) in California. Evidence for repeated WNV infection was found by testing living and dead nestlings collected under trees with mixed species ardeid colonies nesting above in an oak grove near the University of California arboretum in Davis and in a Eucalyptus grove at a rural farmstead. However, mosquito infection rates at both nesting sites were low and positive pools did not occur earlier than at comparison sites within the City of Davis or at the Yolo Bypass wetlands managed for rice production and waterfowl habitat. Black-crowned night herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) were the most abundant and frequently infected ardeid species, indicating that WNV may be an important cause of mortality among nestlings of this species.
19126682	F-box proteins are substrate-recognition components of the Skp1-Rbx1-Cul1-F-box protein (SCF) ubiquitin ligases. In plants, F-box genes form one of the largest multigene superfamilies and control many important biological functions. However, it is unclear how and why plants have acquired a large number of F-box genes. Here we identified 692, 337, and 779 F-box genes in Arabidopsis, poplar and rice, respectively, and studied their phylogenetic relationships and evolutionary patterns. We found that the plant F-box superfamily can be divided into 42 families, each of which has a distinct domain organization. We also estimated the number of ancestral genes for each family and identified highly conservative versus divergent families. In conservative families, there has been little or no change in the number of genes since the divergence between eudicots and monocots approximately 145 million years ago. In divergent families, however, the numbers have increased dramatically during the same period. In two cases, the numbers of genes in extant species are >100 times greater than that in the most recent common ancestor (MRCA) of the three species. Proteins encoded by highly conservative genes always have the same domain organization, suggesting that they interact with the same or similar substrates. In contrast, proteins of rapidly duplicating genes sometimes have quite different domain structures, mainly caused by unusually frequent shifts of exon-intron boundaries and/or frameshift mutations. Our results indicate that different F-box families, or different clusters of the same family, have experienced dramatically different modes of sequence divergence, apparently having resulted in adaptive changes in function.
19126710
19126717	A pink-pigmented, aerobic, facultatively methylotrophic bacterial strain, CBMB27T, isolated from leaf tissues of rice (Oryza sativa L. 'Dong-Jin'), was analysed using a polyphasic taxonomic approach. Comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence-based phylogenetic analysis placed the strain in a clade with the species Methylobacterium oryzae, Methylobacterium fujisawaense and Methylobacterium mesophilicum; strain CBMB27T showed sequence similarities of 98.3, 98.5 and 97.3 %, respectively, to the type strains of these three species. DNA-DNA hybridization experiments revealed low levels (<38 %) of DNA-DNA relatedness between strain CBMB27T and its closest relatives. The sequence of the 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase gene (acdS) in strain CBMB27T differed from those of close relatives. The major fatty acid of the isolate was C(18 : 1)omega7c and the G+C content of the genomic DNA was 66.8 mol%. Based on the results of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, DNA-DNA hybridization, and physiological and biochemical characterization, which enabled the isolate to be differentiated from all recognized species of the genus Methylobacterium, it was concluded that strain CBMB27T represents a novel species in the genus Methylobacterium for which the name Methylobacterium phyllosphaerae sp. nov. is proposed (type strain CBMB27T =LMG 24361T =KACC 11716T =DSM 19779T).
19126729	Gram-positive, rod-shaped, non-motile lactic acid bacteria, strains iz4b-1T, iz4b-2 and iz4c-1, were isolated in an attempt to study the composition of the Lactobacillus flora of Japanese pickles. Analysis of their 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that the strains clustered in the Lactobacillus alimentarius group, and comparatively high similarities were shown to 'Lactobacillus tucceti' CECT 5920 (97.0 %), Lactobacillus versmoldensis KU-3T (96.4 %) and Lactobacillus nantensis LP33T (94.4 %). DNA-DNA hybridization assays clearly revealed that the isolates represented a novel taxon. The DNA G+C content was 40.6 mol% and the peptidoglycan type was L-Lys-D-Asp. Thus, these isolates represent a novel Lactobacillus species, for which the name Lactobacillus nodensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is iz4b-1T (=DSM 19682T =JCM 14932T).
19126874	The glycemic response to diet has been linked with noncommunicable diseases and is reduced by low-palatable, viscous, soluble fiber (1). Whether a palatable, low-viscous, soluble fiber such as resistant maltodextrin (RMD) has the same effect is unclear. The objective was to assess evidence on the attenuation of the blood glucose response to foods by < or = 10 g RMD in healthy adults. We conducted a systematic review of randomized, placebo-controlled trials with the use of fixed- and random-effects meta-analyses and meta-regression models. We found data from 37 relevant trials to April 2007. These trials investigated the attenuation of the glycemic response to rice, noodles, pastry, bread, and refined carbohydrates that included 30-173 g available carbohydrate. RMD was administered in drinks or liquid foods or solid foods. Placebo drinks and foods excluded RMD. Percentage attenuation was significant, dose-dependent, and independent of the amount of available carbohydrate coingested. Attenuation of the glycemic response to starchy foods by 6 g RMD in drinks approached approximately 20%, but when placed directly into foods was approximately 10% -- significant (P < 0.001) by both modes of administration. Study quality analyses, funnel plots, and trim-and-fill analyses uncovered no cause of significant systematic bias. Studies from authors affiliated with organizations for-profit were symmetrical without heterogeneity, whereas marginal asymmetry and significant heterogeneity arose among studies involving authors from nonprofit organizations because of some imprecise studies. A nonviscous palatable soluble polysaccharide can attenuate the glycemic response to carbohydrate foods. Evidence of an effect was stronger for RMD in drinks than in foods.
1912701
19127777	In this report, we studied the fertilization and embryo development of a cross between rice and maize. The results showed that the pollen grains of maize could enter into the tissue of style of rice, and reached the embryo sac and released the sperms. Maize sperm might fuse with rice egg or polar nucleus and formed zygote or primary endosperm. But the embryo and endosperm could not be developed normally, and thus the underdeveloped hybrid seeds were formed. The reason was probably that the parental genomes could not coordinate well. This work provided a clue to solve the crossing obstacles between different species.
19127778
19128958	In this work, straw hydrolysates were used to produce succinic acid by Actinobacillus succinogenes CGMCC1593 for the first time. Results indicated that both glucose and xylose in the straw hydrolysates were utilized in succinic acid production, and the hydrolysates of corn straw was better than that of rice or wheat straw in anaerobic fermentation of succinic acid. However, cell growth and succinic acid production were inhibited when the initial concentration of sugar, which was from corn straw hydrolysate (CSH), was higher than 60 g l(-1). In batch fermentation, 45.5 g l(-1) succinic acid concentration and 80.7% yield were attained after 48 h incubation with 58 g l(-1) of initial sugar from corn straw hydrolysate in a 5-l stirred bioreactor. While in fed-batch fermentation, concentration of succinic acid achieved 53.2 g l(-1) at a rate of 1.21 g l(-1) h(-1) after 44 h of fermentation. Our work suggested that corn straw could be utilized for the economical production of succinic acid by A. succinogenes.
19129168	Prolamins, a group of rice (Oryza sativa) seed storage proteins, are synthesized on the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and deposited in ER-derived type I protein bodies (PB-Is) in rice endosperm cells. The accumulation mechanism of prolamins, which do not possess the well-known ER retention signal, remains unclear. In order to elucidate whether the accumulation of prolamin in the ER requires seed-specific factors, the subcellular localization of the constitutively expressed green fluorescent protein fused to prolamin (prolamin-GFP) was examined in seeds, leaves, and roots of transgenic rice plants. The prolamin-GFP fusion proteins accumulated not only in the seeds but also in the leaves and roots. Microscopic observation of GFP fluorescence and immunocytochemical analysis revealed that prolamin-GFP fusion proteins specifically accumulated in PB-Is in the endosperm, whereas they were deposited in the electron-dense structures in the leaves and roots. The ER chaperone BiP was detected in the structures in the leaves and roots. The results show that the aggregation of prolamin-GFP fusion proteins does not depend on the tissues, suggesting that the prolamin-GFP fusion proteins accumulate in the ER by forming into aggregates. The findings bear out the importance of the assembly of prolamin molecules and the interaction of prolamin with BiP in the formation of ER-derived PBs.
19130077	The cellulose synthase-like (ZmCSL) gene family of maize was annotated and its expression studied in the maize mesocotyl. A total of 28 full-length CSL genes and another 13 partial sequences were annotated; four are predicted to be pseudogenes. Maize has all of the CSL subfamilies that are present in rice, but the CSLC subfamily is expanded from 6 in rice to 12 in maize, and the CSLH subfamily might be reduced from 3 to 1. Unlike rice, maize has a gene in the CSLG subfamily, based on its sequence similarity to two genes annotated as CSLG in poplar. Light regulation of glycan synthase enzyme activities and CSL gene expression were analyzed in the mesocotyl. A Golgi-localized glucan synthase activity is reduced by ~50% 12 h after exposure to light. beta-1,4-Mannan synthase activity is reduced even more strongly (>85%), whereas beta-1,4-xylan synthase, callose synthase, and latent IDPase activity respond only slightly, if at all, to light. At least 17 of the CSL genes (42%) are expressed in the mesocotyl, of which four are up-regulated at least twofold, seven are down-regulated at least twofold, and six are not affected by light. The results contribute to our understanding of the structure of the CSL gene family in an important food and biofuel plant, show that a large percentage of the CSL genes are expressed in the specialized tissues of the mesocotyl, and demonstrate that members of the CSL gene family are differentially subject to photobiological regulation.
19130198	Rice stripe virus (RSV) infects rice and causes great yield reduction in some Asian countries. In this study, rice cDNA library was screened by a Gal4-based yeast two-hybrid system using pc4, a putative movement protein of RSV, as the bait. A number of positive colonies were identified and sequence analysis revealed that they might correspond to ten independent proteins. Two of them were selected and further characterized. The two proteins were a J protein and a small Hsp, respectively. Interactions between Pc4 and the two proteins were confirmed using coimmunoprecipitation. Implications of the findings that pc4 interacted with two chaperone proteins were discussed.
19130295	A gene encoding a putative asparagine synthetase (AS; EC 6.3.5.4) has been isolated from common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). A 2.4 kb cDNA clone of this gene (PVAS3) encodes a protein of 570 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 64,678 Da, an isoelectric point of 6.45, and a net charge of -5.9 at pH 7.0. The PVAS3 protein sequence conserves all the amino acid residues that are essential for glutamine-dependent AS, and PVAS3 complemented an E. coli asparagine auxotroph, that demonstrates that it encodes a glutamine-dependent AS. PVAS3 displayed significant similarity to other AS. It showed the highest similarity to soybean SAS3 (92.9% identity), rice AS (73.7% identity), Arabidopsis ASN2 (73.2%) and sunflower HAS2 (72.9%). A phylogenetic analysis revealed that PVAS3 belongs to class-II asparagine synthetases. Expression analysis by real-time RT-PCR revealed that PVAS3 is expressed ubiquitously and is not repressed by light.
19131161	'Rice polish' (an agricultural residue) was utilized successfully for the removal of arsenic from aqueous solution. Various parameters viz. pH, biosorbent dosage, initial metal ion concentration and temperature were studied. Langmuir, Freundlich and Dubinin-Radushkevich (D-R) isotherm models were used and the system followed all three isotherms, showing sorption to be monolayer on the heterogeneous surface of the biosorbent. The maximum sorption capacity calculated using Langmuir model was 138.88 microg/g for As(III) at 20 degrees C and pH 7.0 and 147.05 microg/g at 20 degrees C and pH 4.0 for As(V). The mean sorption energy (E) calculated from D-R model indicated chemisorption nature of sorption. Study of thermodynamic parameters revealed the exothermic, spontaneous and feasible nature of sorption process in case of both As(III) and As(V). The pseudo-second-order rate equation described better the kinetics of arsenic sorption with good correlation coefficients than pseudo-first-order equation. Mass transfer, intraparticle diffusion, richenberg and elovich models were applied to the data and it was found that initially the sorption of arsenic was governed by film diffusion followed by intraparticle diffusion. Rice polish was found to be efficient in removing arsenic from aqueous solution as compared to other biosorbents already used for the removal of arsenic.
19131165	Adsorption experiments were carried out using waste rice straw of several kinds as a biosorbent to adsorb Cu(II), Zn(II), Cd(II) and Hg(II) ions from aqueous solutions at room temperature. To achieve the best adsorption conditions the influence of pH and contact time were investigated. The isotherms of adsorption were fitted to the Freundlich equation. Based on the experimental data and Freundlich model, the adsorption order was Cd(II)>Cu(II)>Zn(II)>Hg(II) on the rice straw. This quick adsorption process reached the equilibrium before 1.5h, with maximum adsorptions at pH 5.0. Thermodynamic aspects of the adsorption process were investigated. The biosorbent material was used in columns for the removal of ions Cu, Zn, Cd and Hg of real samples of industrial effluent and its efficiency was studied.
19131237	This article proposes a quick method of monitoring for pozzolanic reactivity of waste ashes by investigating the electrical conductivity of the suspension at an elevated temperature. This suspension is obtained by mixing tested pozzolan with an ordinary Portland cement (OPC) solution produced by mixing ordinary Portland cement with water. For comparison, silica fume, metakaolin, rice husk ash and river sand - whose pozzolanic reactivities range from reactive to inert - were used in the experimental investigation. The electrical conductivity of the suspension was continually recorded by using an electrical conductivity meter and stored by using a personal computer for a period of slightly over 1day. The indicative parameters that can be related to pozzolanic reactivity were discussed and analyzed in detail. It was found that it is possible to determine the pozzolanic reactivity of fly ash within 28h by using the proposed technique, as compared to 7 or 28 days for the determination of strength activity index according to ASTM. This technique would help concrete technologists to speedily investigate the quality of fly ash for use as a cement replacement in order to alleviate pollution caused by cement production and solve disposal problems of waste ashes.
19131459	The aim of this study was to determine the effect of common adiponectin gene polymorphisms on dietary intervention-mediated changes in adiponectin levels and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) indexes. A total of 363 subjects with impaired fasting glucose (IFG) or newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes followed a dietary intervention (replacement of cooked refined rice with whole grains and an increase in vegetable intake) and regular walking for 12 weeks without any medication. Adiponectin gene single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (45, 276, and -11377) were examined in these subjects. After this dietary intervention, fasting glucose levels decreased in all three SNP 45T>G genotype groups. Subjects with the SNP 45TT genotype showed increased adiponectin levels and decreased HOMA-IR indexes. Haplotype analysis revealed that homozygous carriers of the TG haplotype (45TT and 276GG) and heterozygous carriers of the TG haplotype (TG/X) showed a reduction in the HOMA-IR index after adjustment for baseline levels. Significant differences were observed in changes in HOMA-IR indexes and adiponectin concentrations according to the 45-276 TG haplotype in overweight-obese, but not in normal-weight subjects: the greatest decrease in HOMA-IR indexes and the greatest increase in adiponectin levels were shown in overweight-obese subjects with the TG/TG haplotype. ADIPOQ genetic variants can affect circulating adiponectin levels and insulin resistance indexes in subjects with IFG or newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes in response to dietary intervention.
19132074	The WRKY gene family represents an ancient and highly complex group of transcription factors involved in signal transduction pathways of numerous plant developmental processes and host defense response. Up to now, most WRKY proteins have been identified in a few angiosperm species. Identification of WRKY genes in a conifer species would facilitate a comprehensive understanding of the evolutionary and function-adaptive process of this superfamily in plants. We performed PCR on genomic DNA to clone WRKY sequences from western white pine (Pinus monticola), one of the most valuable conifer species endangered by white pine blister rust (Cronartium ribicola). In total, 83 P. monticola WRKY (PmWRKY) sequences were identified using degenerate primers targeted to the WRKY domain. A phylogenetic analysis revealed that PmWRKY members fell into four major groups (1, 2a+2b, 2c, and 2d+2e) described in Arabidopsis and rice. Because of high genetic diversity of the PmWRKY family, a modified AFLP method was used to detect DNA polymorphism of this gene family. Polymorphic fragments accounted for 17%-35% of total PCR products in the AFLP profiles. Among them, one WRKY AFLP marker was linked to the major resistance gene (Cr2) against C. ribicola. The results of this study provide basic genomic information for a conifer WRKY gene family, which will pave the way for elucidating gene evolutionary mechanisms in plants and unveiling the precise roles of PmWRKY in conifer development and defense response.
19132337	Association mapping can be a powerful tool for detecting quantitative trait loci (QTLs) without requiring line-crossing experiments. We previously proposed a Bayesian approach for simultaneously mapping multiple QTLs by a regression method that directly incorporates estimates of the population structure. In the present study, we extended our method to analyze ordinal and censored traits, since both types of traits are common in the evaluation of germplasm collections. Ordinal-probit and tobit models were employed to analyze ordinal and censored traits, respectively. In both models, we postulated the existence of a latent continuous variable associated with the observable data, and we used a Markov-chain Monte Carlo algorithm to sample the latent variable and determine the model parameters. We evaluated the efficiency of our approach by using simulated- and real-trait analyses of a rice germplasm collection. Simulation analyses based on real marker data showed that our models could reduce both false-positive and false-negative rates in detecting QTLs to reasonable levels. Simulation analyses based on highly polymorphic marker data, which were generated by coalescent simulations, showed that our models could be applied to genotype data based on highly polymorphic marker systems, like simple sequence repeats. For the real traits, we analyzed heading date as a censored trait and amylose content and the shape of milled rice grains as ordinal traits. We found significant markers that may be linked to previously reported QTLs. Our approach will be useful for whole-genome association mapping of ordinal and censored traits in rice germplasm collections.
19132872	GH3 genes are main components of the hormonal mechanism regulating growth and development and, hence, are deeply involved in a broad range of physiological processes. They are implicated in hormonal homeostasis through the conjugation to amino acids of the free form of essential plant growth regulators such as indoleacetic and jasmonic acids. In this work, we showed that OsGH3.1 overexpression in rice caused dwarfism and significantly reduced both free auxin content and cell elongation. Functional classification of the transcriptomic profiling revealed that most genes involved in auxin biosynthesis and auxin signaling inhibition were induced and repressed, respectively. Many genes related to cell organization and biogenesis were also significantly downregulated. The survey also showed that, although the response to abiotic stresses was not clearly stimulated, OsGH3.1 overexpression did activate a significant number of defense-related genes. In successive bioassays, it was demonstrated that the resistance of rice plants to pathogen infection, evaluated with two different Magnaporthe grisea strains, was higher in the transformants overexpressing OsGH3.1. Taken together, these results indicate that OsGH3.1 overexpression reduces auxin content, inhibits cell growth and cell wall loosening, and enhances resistance to a fungal pathogen. Our results provide evidence that auxin homeostasis can regulate the activation of the defense response in rice.
19134169	Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seed development is a highly regulated process with fine-tuned interaction of various tissues controlling distinct physiological events during prestorage, storage and dessication phase. As potential regulators involved within this process we studied 172 transcription factors and 204 kinases for their expression behaviour and anchored a subset of them to the barley linkage map to promote marker-assisted studies on barley grains. By a hierachical clustering of the expression profiles of 376 potential regulatory genes expressed in 37 different tissues, we found 50 regulators preferentially expressed in one of the three grain tissue fractions pericarp, endosperm and embryo during seed development. In addition, 27 regulators found to be expressed during both seed development and germination and 32 additional regulators are characteristically expressed in multiple tissues undergoing cell differentiation events during barley plant ontogeny. Another 96 regulators were, beside in the developing seed, ubiquitously expressed among all tissues of germinating seedlings as well as in reproductive tissues. SNP-marker development for those regulators resulted in anchoring 61 markers on the genetic linkage map of barley and the chromosomal assignment of another 12 loci by using wheat-barley addition lines. The SNP frequency ranged from 0.5 to 1.0 SNP/kb in the parents of the various mapping populations and was 2.3 SNP/kb over all eight lines tested. Exploration of macrosynteny to rice revealed that the chromosomal orders of the mapped putative regulatory factors were predominantly conserved during evolution. We identified expression patterns of major transcription factors and signaling related genes expressed during barley ontogeny and further assigned possible functions based on likely orthologs functionally well characterized in model plant species. The combined linkage map and reference expression map of regulators defined in the present study offers the possibility of further directed research of the functional role of regulators during seed development in barley.
19135069	Spaceflight represents a complex environmental condition in which several interacting factors such as cosmic radiation, microgravity and space magnetic fields are involved, which may provoke stress responses and jeopardize genome integrity. Given the inherent property of epigenetic modifications to respond to intrinsic as well as external perturbations, it is conceivable that epigenetic markers like DNA methylation may undergo alterations in response to spaceflight. We report here that extensive alteration in both DNA methylation and gene expression occurred in rice plants subjected to a spaceflight, as revealed by a set of characterized sequences including 6 transposable elements (TEs) and 11 cellular genes. We found that several features characterize the alterations: (1) All detected alterations are hypermethylation events; (2) whereas alteration in both CG and CNG methylation occurred in the TEs, only alteration in CNG methylation occurred in the cellular genes; (3) alteration in expression includes both up- and down-regulations, which did not show a general correlation with alteration in methylation; (4) altered methylation patterns in both TEs and cellular genes are heritable to progenies at variable frequencies; however, stochastic reversion to wild-type patterns and further de novo changes in progenies are also apparent; and (5) the altered expression states in both TEs and cellular genes are also heritable to selfed progenies but with markedly lower transmission frequencies than altered DNA methylation states. Furthermore, we found that a set of genes encoding for the various putative DNA methyltransferases, 5-methylcytosine DNA glycosylases, the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeller (DDM1) and siRNA-related proteins are extremely sensitive to perturbation by spaceflight, which might be an underlying cause for the altered methylation patterns in the space-flown plants. We discuss implications of spaceflight-induced epigenetic variations with regard to health safety issues of spaceship crews and potentiality of spaceflight as a means for mutagenesis in crop breeding.
19135278	Expression profiles of nine rice heat shock protein genes (OsHSPs) were analyzed by semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The nine genes exhibited distinctive expression in different organs. Expression of nine OsHSP genes was affected differentially by abiotic stresses and abscisic acid (ABA). All nine OsHSP genes were induced strongly by heat shock treatment, whereas none of them were induced by cold. The transcripts of OsHSP80.2, OsHSP71.1 and OsHSP23.7 were increased during salt tress treatment. Expression of OsHSP80.2 and OsHSP24.1 genes were enhanced while treated with 10% PEG. Only OsHSP71.1 was induced by ABA while OsHSP24.1 was suppressed by ABA. These observations imply that the nine OsHSP genes may play different roles in plant development and abiotic stress responses.
19135473	Nine sulfated defatted rice bran polysaccharides (sRBPS), with various degrees of sulfation (DS) and carbohydrate content, were prepared by chlorosulfonic acid-pyridine (CSA-Pyr) method according to orthogonal test. Nine sulfated derivatives sRBPS were obtained and their antitumor activities were compared by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The results showed that when DS within the scope of 0.81-1.29, carbohydrate content in the range of 41.41-78.56%, sulfated derivatives exhibit relatively strong antitumor activity in vitro. The optimum modification conditions were reaction temperature of 70 degrees C, the ratio of chlorosulfonic acid to pyridine of 1:4 and the reaction time of 2h.
19135985	The plant-specific NAC (NAM, ATAF1/2, CUC2) transcription factors play diverse roles in plant development and stress responses. In this study, a rice NAC gene, ONAC045, was functionally characterized, especially with regard to its role in abiotic stress resistance. Expression analysis revealed that ONAC045 was induced by drought, high salt, and low temperature stresses, and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment in leaves and roots. Transcriptional activation assay in yeast indicated that ONAC045 functioned as a transcriptional activator. Transient expression of GFP-ONAC045 in onion epidermal cells revealed that ONAC045 protein was localized in the nucleus. Transgenic rice plants overexpressing ONAC045 showed enhanced tolerance to drought and salt treatments. Two stress-responsive genes were upregulated in transgenic rice. Together, these results suggest that ONAC045 encodes a novel stress-responsive NAC transcription factor and is potential useful for engineering drought and salt tolerant rice.
19136467	Having a well-known history of genome duplication, rice is a good model for studying structural and functional evolution of paleo duplications. Improved sequence alignment criteria were used to characterize 10 major chromosome-to-chromosome duplication relationships associated with 1440 paralogous pairs, covering 47.8% of the rice genome, with 12.6% of genes that are conserved within sister blocks. Using a micro-array experiment, a genome-wide expression map has been produced, in which 2382 genes show significant differences of expression in root, leaf and grain. By integrating both structural (1440 paralogous pairs) and functional information (2382 differentially expressed genes), we identified 115 paralogous gene pairs for which at least one copy is differentially expressed in one of the three tissues. A vast majority of the 115 paralogous gene pairs have been neofunctionalized or subfunctionalized as 88%, 89% and 96% of duplicates, respectively, expressed in grain, leaf and root show distinct expression patterns. On the basis of a Gene Ontology analysis, we have identified and characterized the gene families that have been structurally and functionally preferentially retained in the duplication showing that the vast majority (>85%) of duplicated have been either lost or have been subfunctionalized or neofunctionalized during 50-70 million years of evolution.
19136647	Protein farnesylation and geranylgeranylation are important posttranslational modifications in eukaryotic cells. We visualized in transformed Nicotiana tabacum Bright Yellow-2 (BY-2) cells the geranylgeranylation and plasma membrane localization of GFP-BD-CVIL, which consists of green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to the C-terminal polybasic domain (BD) and CVIL isoprenylation motif from the Oryza sativa calmodulin, CaM61. Treatment with fosmidomycin (Fos) or oxoclomazone (OC), inhibitors of the plastidial 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway, caused mislocalization of the protein to the nucleus, whereas treatment with mevinolin, an inhibitor of the cytosolic mevalonate pathway, did not. The nuclear localization of GFP-BD-CVIL in the presence of MEP pathway inhibitors was completely reversed by all-trans-geranylgeraniol (GGol). Furthermore, 1-deoxy-d-xylulose (DX) reversed the effects of OC, but not Fos, consistent with the hypothesis that OC blocks 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthesis, whereas Fos inhibits its conversion to 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate. By contrast, GGol and DX did not rescue the nuclear mislocalization of GFP-BD-CVIL in the presence of a protein geranylgeranyltransferase type 1 inhibitor. Thus, the MEP pathway has an essential role in geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) biosynthesis and protein geranylgeranylation in BY-2 cells. GFP-BD-CVIL is a versatile tool for identifying pharmaceuticals and herbicides that interfere either with GGPP biosynthesis or with protein geranylgeranylation.
19136648	Gene duplication is an important mechanism for evolution of new genes. In plants, a special group of transposable elements, called Pack-MULEs or transduplicates, is able to duplicate and amplify genes or gene fragments on a large scale. Despite the abundance of Pack-MULEs, the functionality of these duplicates is not clear. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of expression and purifying selection on 2809 Pack-MULEs in rice (Oryza sativa), which are derived from 1501 parental genes. At least 22% of the Pack-MULEs are transcribed, and 28 Pack-MULEs have direct evidence of translation. Chimeric Pack-MULEs, which contain gene fragments from multiple genes, are much more frequently expressed than those derived only from a single gene. In addition, Pack-MULEs are frequently associated with small RNAs. The presence of these small RNAs is associated with a reduction in expression of both the Pack-MULEs and their parental genes. Furthermore, an assessment of the selection pressure on the Pack-MULEs using the ratio of nonsynonymous (Ka) and synonymous (Ks) substitution rates indicates that a considerable number of Pack-MULEs likely have been under selective constraint. The Ka/Ks values of Pack-MULE and parental gene pairs are lower among Pack-MULEs that are expressed in sense orientations. Taken together, our analysis suggests that a significant number of Pack-MULEs are expressed and subjected to purifying selection, and some are associated with small RNAs. Therefore, at least a subset of Pack-MULEs are likely functional and have great potential in regulating gene expression as well as providing novel coding capacities.
19137137	Total arsenic and arsenic speciation was performed on different rice types (basmati, long-grain, polished ([white] and wholegrain [brown]) that had undergone various forms of cooking. The effect of rinse washing, low volume (2.5 : 1 water : rice) and high volume (6 : 1 water : rice) cooking, as well as steaming, were investigated. Rinse washing was effective at removing circa. 10% of the total and inorganic arsenic from basmati rice, but was less effective for other rice types. While steaming reduced total and inorganic arsenic rice content, it did not do so consistently across all rice types investigated. Low volume water cooking did not remove arsenic. High volume water : rice cooking did effectively remove both total and inorganic arsenic for the long-grain and basmati rice (parboiled was not investigated in high volume cooking water experiment), by 35% and 45% for total and inorganic arsenic content, respectively, compared to uncooked (raw) rice. To reduce arsenic content of cooked rice, specifically the inorganic component, rinse washing and high volume of cooking water are effective.
19137822	Rice blast, caused by fungus Magnaporthe grisea, is one of the most serious diseases of rice throughout the world and is also a classical system in which avirulence (AVR) genes in the pathogen show a functional correspondence with particular resistance (R) genes in rice. The interaction between AVR-pita gene in Magnaporthe grsiea and Pi-ta gene in rice is a classical gene-for-gene system. The genetic diversity of AVR-pita alleles was showed by 44 isolates from the fields in Sichuan and Chongqing. According to the published sequence of AVR-pita (GenBank Accession No. AF207841), the special primers were designed and a population analysis of AVR-pita occurrence in the field was conducted. The PCR negative isolates did not trigger host resistance responses and the disease might occur. The positive special PCR band in an isolate was not corresponding with its avirulence to the Pi-ta rice line. Among 11 sequenced A VR-pita alleles, six AVR-pita alleles encoded the same protein, four proteins differed from each other by one amino acid and one had nonsense mutation. The strategy of utilizing Pi-ta in rice breeding was also discussed.
19137825	The objective of this study was to compare some aspects of root anatomy of rice cultivars under irrigation and submerged conditions. Seedling of three new rice cultivars (Zayande-Rood, 829 and 216) were transferred to 9 lysiometers (200 x 120 x 100 cm) according to a randomized block design with two treatments (submerged and aerated condition) in three replicates. The amount of water consumption was recorded during growing season. Cross-sections of plant roots were obtained at two different times; two and four months after seedling. The root samples were prepared from 20 mm of tip. Root cross-sections were successively stained with 1% aqueous solutions of Methyl green and Congo red. Figures of sections were made by LM. Anatomical differences were observed among the three cultivars submitted to water regimes regarding the amount of aerenchyma tissue and cell walls of secondary tissues. The irrigated roots of the three cultivars presented a decreasing tendency in the proportion of the area of the cortex destined for the aerenchyma besides thickening of the cell walls of endodermis, pith and sclerenchyma layer cells. The rate of aerenchyma disappearing in the irrigated plants suggested different behaviors in different cultivars. Zyande-Rood and 829 cultivars exhibited extensive aerenchyma disappearing when the plants was irrigated compared to others. The sclerenchyma layer cell walls in 2-month-old roots were higher in irrigated plants and also was higher in Zayande-Rood cultivar. The result of xylem vessels wall indicated that the thicknesses of xylem vessels under submerged and irrigated condition were 3.6 and 7.9 mu in Zyande-Rood cultivar respectively. The thicknesses of endoderm cell wall of the submerged roots ranged from 4.6 to 10.8 mu for Zyande-Rood cultivar in submerged and irrigated conditions respectively and were lower for other cultivars. The water consumptions were 43.04 and 82.5 cm in whole season for irrigated and submerged condition, respectively.
19137860	This study aimed to evaluate the perspective changes of several physiological performances of rice seeds cv. KDML 105 which were coated with various seed coating substances [chemical fungicide, captan (CA) and biological coating polymers; chitosan-lignosulphonate polymer (CL) and eugenol incorporated into chitosan-lignosulphonate polymer (E + CL)] during storage (12 months). CA significantly increased seed moisture content and seed water activity through out the storage period. The qualities and viability of the seeds were seriously declined by this treatment. Moreover, CA inhibited the shoot and root development, seedling dry weight accumulation, delayed the seed germination and seedling growth rate. CA treated seeds were susceptible to stress conditions that declined the seed germination potential under cold, high moisture and temperature stress conditions. Nevertheless, CL and E + CL coating polymer could maintain seed storability, which significantly improved seed germination and seedling performances. These improvements were attributed to maintain the nutritive reserve and dehydrogenase activity in seeds. Moreover, the biological seed treatment stimulated the embryo growth and so speeding up the seedling emergence when compared untreated seeds.
19137993	Legumes represent an important protein source worldwide. In Venezuela, they are generally prepared at home and are consumed by adults, as soup or stew, while children eat them in very small quantities. In order to include legumes in the children's diet, the following work was done using cowpea (Vigna sinensis) as an complement of chicken in the preparation of a nutritionally balanced formula, adapted to the requirements of children. Several formulas were developed and three of them were selected based on their acceptability. In the first formula, the protein source was only of chicken. In the second formula, the chicken was partially substituted by cowpea, and in the third formula, the protein source was only made of cowpea. Other formula ingredients included rice, pumpkin (Curcubita maxima), carrot and some seasonings. Proximal analysis, protein quality (as protein efficiency ratio and protein digestibility) and sensory evaluation (7-point hedonic scale) were performed on the formulas. The proximal composition was similar in the three formulas: protein (3.5%), fat (1.3%) and carbohydrates (19.7%), with a good distribution of the energy contribution (98.9 kcal/100 g or 413.8 kJ/100 g). The protein quality and protein digestibility were higher for the chicken-cowpea formula than for the cowpea one. The acceptability with the mothers was higher for the chicken-cowpea formula than for the cowpea one. The acceptability of the chicken-cowpea formula with children was 77% (7-point hedonic facial scale) and 92% (measuring consumption). Due to the high acceptability and good protein quality, the chicken-cowpea formula could be included in the lunch meal of the children in daycare homes.
19138081	Purple rice bran was separated and collected at two different milling periods, resulting in two bran (outer and inner layer) fractions. The distribution of lipophilic and hydrophilic antioxidants and their antioxidant activities in the two fractions were studied. The bran fractions were extracted with hexane followed by methanol to obtain lipophilic and hydrophilic extracts, respectively. The total phenolic content and free radical scavenging activity of the extracts were determined and compared. The lipophilic extract from the outer bran fraction (OBF) exhibited a lower level of total tocols and gamma-tocols, compared with the inner bran fraction (IBF), while the levels of gamma-oryzanol in both fractions were not different. However, the lipophilic phenolic content and free radial scavenging activity of the OBF were 6.0 microg catechin equivalent (CE)/g and 5.6 micromol trolox equivalent (TE)/g and higher than those of the IBF, respectively. For the hydrophilic extracts, the level of anthocyanins in the IBF (29.0 mg/g) was 8 times higher than that in the OBF. Also, the hydrophilic phenolic content and free radical scavenging activity of the IBF were 489.1 microg CE/g and 433.6 micromol TE/g, respectively, while they were 113.9 microg CE/g and 78.2 micromol TE/g in the OBF. Both hydrophilic extracts showed significantly higher phenolic content and free radical scavenging activity than any lipophilic extract. The results of this study indicated that the activity of purple rice bran hydrophilic antioxidants was much greater than that of its lipophilic antioxidants and anthocyanins and gamma-tocols largely located in the inner portion of purple rice bran.
19138119	To replace nitromethylene pharmacophore with a nitroconjugated system, a series of novel neonicotinoid analogues bearing five-membered aromatic heterocycles were designed and synthesized. Bioassays indicated that some of the synthesized compounds exhibited higher insecticidal activities than imidacloprid against cowpea aphids (Aphis craccivora), armyworm (Pseudaletia separate Walker), Nephotettix bipunctatus (Fabricius), and small brown rice planthopper (Laodelphasx striatellus). Exhilaratingly, the activity levels of derivatives 13a and 13j rivaled that of imidacloprid.
19138233	The best characterized form of resistance is gene-for-gene resistance. Less well characterized is nonhost resistance in which an entire plant species is resistant to an entire pathogen species. Here, different rice genotypes were inoculated with host and nonhost strains of Magnaporthe isolated from rice, wheat and crabgrass. The different types of interactions were characterized at a cytological level using a 3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB) stain to investigate the occurrence of reactive oxygen intermediates or by observing the occurrence of cellular autofluorescence. Gene expression of a set of selected PR-genes was analysed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Inoculation with the isolate from crabgrass resulted in a lack of penetration. The wheat isolate induced a hypersensitive response with varying degrees of pathogen growth inside the invaded cell according to the rice genotype. Expression analysis of our PR-gene set revealed clear differences between the different types of interactions in both kinetic and magnitude of gene induction. Our integrated study opens the way to the dissection of molecular components leading to nonhost reactions to Magnaporthe grisea in rice and points to novel sources of durable resistance to fungal plant pathogens in other cereal crops.
19139394	The jasmonate signal pathway is known to control defenses against herbivores, such as leaf eaters (folivores). Does the reach of the pathway extend to defense against other types of animal? Among the arthropods attracted to seed baits placed below flowering Arabidopsis thaliana plants are 2 largely nocturnal isopod crustaceans generally considered as detritivores: Porcellio scaber and Armadillidium vulgare. Parallel laboratory experiments identified the isopods as being capable of predation on intact plants. Isopod feeding was strongly facilitated in jasmonate-deficient Arabidopsis and rice plants. The feeding activity of isopods revealed potentially detritivore-sensitive, jasmonate-protected Achilles' heels in these architecturally different plants (petioles and inflorescence stems in Arabidopsis, and lower stem and mesocotyl in rice). The work addresses the question of what stops 2 detritivores from attacking living plants and provides evidence that it is, in part, the jasmonate signal pathway. Furthermore, senescent leaves from an Arabidopsis jasmonate mutant were consumed more rapidly than senescent wild-type leaves, suggesting that past activity of the jasmonate signal pathway in leaves may slow carbon recycling through detritivory.
19139589	Thirty elements in garlic sample were determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) after microwave digestion. The concentrations of K, Ca,Na, Sr, and Hg in the present garlic sample were higher than those in rice and wheat, but the concentration of Se in the garlic sample was relatively lower. The extractability of the elements in the garlic sample was also examined; the results showed that most of the elements could be easily extracted by pure water and/or a 0.1 M HNO(3) solution, except for Hg. Furthermore, the size-fractional distribution of the elements in garlic was investigated by pure water extraction and centrifugal ultrafiltration.
19140940	* Shoot branching is important for the establishment of plant architecture and productivity. * Here, characterization of rice (Oryza sativa) reduced culm number 1 (rcn1) mutants revealed that Rcn1 positively controls shoot branching by promoting the outgrowth of lateral shoots. Molecular studies revealed that Rcn1 encodes a novel member of ATP-binding cassette protein subfamily G (ABCG subfamily), also known as the white-brown complex (WBC) subfamily, and is designated OsABCG5. * Rcn1 is expressed in leaf primordia of main and axillary shoots, and in the vascular cells and leaf epidermis of older leaves. In addition, Rcn1 is expressed in the crown root primordia, endodermis, pericycle and stele in the root. No effect on Rcn1 expression in shoots or roots was seen when the roots were treated with auxins. Phenotypic analyses of rcn1 and tillering dwarf 3 (d3) double mutants at the seedling stage clarified that Rcn1 works independently of D3 in the branching inhibitor pathway. * Rcn1 is the first functionally defined plant ABCG protein gene that controls shoot branching and could thus be significant in future breeding for high-yielding rice.
19140947	A rising human population and changing patterns of land use mean that world food production rates will need to be increased by at least 50% by 2050, a massive rise in harvestable yield per hectare of the major crops such as rice (Oryza sativa) and wheat (Triticum aestivum). Combinations of breeding for improved morphology-related traits such as harvest index and increased inputs of water and fertilizer, which have sustained yield increases since the 1960s, will be neither sufficient nor sustainable. An important limiting factor will be the capacity to produce sufficient biomass during favourable growing periods. Here we analyse this problem in the context of increasing the efficiency of conversion of solar energy into biomass, that is, leaf and canopy photosynthesis. Focussing on crops carrying out C3 photosynthesis, we analyse the evidence for 'losses' in the process of conversion of solar energy into crop biomass and we explore novel mechanisms of improving biomass production rates, which have arisen from recent research into the fundamental primary processes of photosynthesis and carbohydrate metabolism. We show that there are several lines of evidence that these processes are not fully optimized for maximum yield. We put forward the hypothesis that the chloroplast itself should be given greater prominence as a sensor, processor and integrator of highly variable environmental signals to allow a more efficient transduction of energy supply into biomass production.
19141708	Rice (Oryza sativa) forms adventitious root primordia at stem nodes during normal development. Root emergence is preceded by ethylene-induced, H(2)O(2)-mediated local death of epidermal cells. Exogenous H(2)O(2) or enhancement of endogenous H(2)O(2) promoted epidermal cell death in a dose-dependent manner. Inhibition of NADPH oxidase lowered ethylene-induced cell death rates. Inhibition of ethylene perception by 1-methylcyclopropene did not abolish H(2)O(2)-induced cell death, indicating that H(2)O(2) acts downstream of ethylene. Microarray studies of epidermal cells that undergo cell death identified 61 genes coregulated by the ethylene-releasing compound ethephon and by H(2)O(2), supporting a joint signaling pathway. Regulation of the ethylene biosynthetic genes 1-Aminocyclopropane-1-Carboxylate Oxidase1 and Ethylene Overproducer-Like1 and downregulation of Metallothionein2b (MT2b), which encodes a reactive oxygen scavenger, indicated mutual enhancement of ethylene and H(2)O(2) signaling. Analysis of MT2b knockdown mutants showed that cell death rates were inversely related to MT2b transcript abundance. Epidermal cells above adventitious roots have a morphological and molecular identity distinct from other epidermal cells. Pro-death signals regulated several transcription factor genes with a proposed function in cell type specification. It is hypothesized that induction of cell death is dependent on epidermal cell identity.
19141806	Rice paddy soils undergo several cycles of drying and wetting during a growing season. A laboratory study was conducted to determine the effect of soil moisture conditions on the distribution and kinetics of extractable and bound residues of 14C-metsulfuron-methyl in six Chinese paddy soils during 84 d of incubation at 15 degrees C with moisture contents varying from 20 to 50% of the field water-holding capacity. The amount of extractable residues consistently increased and bound residues decreased with increasing soil moisture content. At the end of the incubation experiments, extractable residues and bound residues accounted for 34.5 to 84.4% and 11.6 to 53.3% of applied radioactivity in soils, respectively. Soil pH and soil microbial biomass carbon were the most predominant factors affecting the formation and relative distribution of herbicide residues between extractable and bound residue forms. In high-pH soils, bound residues decreased and extractable residues increased, suggesting an increased leaching risk for metsulfuron-methyl in alkaline soils. High precipitation rates, along with the common practice of liming in southeastern China, may lead to enhanced herbicide leaching as well as phytotoxicity to rotation plants and should be considered in overall pest management practices.
19142738	Chronic exposure to arsenic (As) causes significant human health effects, including various cancers and skin disorders. Naturally elevated concentrations of As have been detected in the groundwater of Bangladesh. Dietary intake and drinking water are the major routes of As exposure for humans. The objectives of this study were to measure As concentrations in rice grain collected from households in As-affected villages of Bangladesh where groundwater is used for agricultural irrigation and to estimate the daily intake of As consumed by the villagers from rice. The median and mean total As contents in 214 rice grain samples were 131 and 143 microg/kg, respectively, with a range of 2-557 microg/kg (dry weight, dw). Arsenic concentrations in control rice samples imported from Pakistan and India and on sale in Australian supermarkets were significantly lower (p < 0.001) than in rice from contaminated areas. Daily dietary intake of As from rice was 56.4 microg for adults (males and females) while the total daily intake of As from rice and from drinking water was 888.4 and 706.4 microg for adult males and adult females, respectively. From our study, it appears that the villagers are consuming a significant amount of As from rice and drinking water. The results suggest that the communities in the villages studied are potentially at risk of suffering from arsenic-related diseases.
19143317	Effects of dissolved organic matter (DOM) on adsorption and desorption of Hg were investigated in two kinds of soils, Xanthi-Udic Ferralosols (XUF) and Typic Purpli-Udic Cambosols (TPUC). The DOM was obtained from humus soil (DOMH), rice straw (DOMR), and pig manure (DOMP). The presence of DOM obviously reduced Hg maximum adsorption capacity with up to 40% decreases over the control, being an order of DOMH (250.00 mg/kg) < DOMR (303.03 mg/kg) < DOMP (322.58 mg/kg) < CK (control 416.67 mg/kg) for the XUF and DOMH (270.27 mg/kg) < DOMR (312.50 mg/kg) < DOMP (324.23 mg/kg) < CK (476.11 mg/kg) for the TPUC, respectively. The inhibition of DOM on Hg adsorption was slightly weaker in XUF than in TPUC. Meanwhile, the DOM promoted Hg desorption from the soils. The kinetic models, the Two-constant equation and Elovich equation, were applicable to describe the adsorption and desorption processes of Hg in soils. The speed of Hg adsorption was consistently slowed down by the existence of DOM.
19145058	Rice bran (Oryza sativa) oil is known for containing higher amount of free fatty acid (FFA) generated by hydrolytic enzyme. This FFA causes heavy neutral oil losses due to saponification and emulsification since it produces large amount of soap in the conventional alkali refining process. In the present study the FFA of degummed rice bran oil (RBO) was significantly reduced by reesterifying it with glycerol. The reesterification process was carried out by varying the temperature and amount of excess glycerol using 0.2% catalyst (SnCl(2)). The maximum efficiency of the process could be attained at 200 degrees C using 70% excess glycerol and the maximum reduction in acid value (from 24.3 to 3.0) of RBO was observed within 4 h. The reesterified RBO was used to prepare stand oil and varnish and their performance characteristics were compared with those of the products obtained from dehydrated castor oil (DCO).
19145059	An attempt was made to study the bleaching ability of some alternative adsorbents like rice husk ash (HC), acid activated rice husk ash (AC), rice husk silica (S), and Al(OH)(3) gel to replace commercial Acid Activated Clay (AAC, like Tonsil Earth: TE) for bleaching of mustard oil. Quantities of AAC used were varied from 0.5 to 2.0 % (w/w). It was used as such and along with commercial activated carbon (0.25-0.75 %, w/w), and laboratory prepared Al(OH)(3) gel, rice husk ash and silica isolated from husk. The results show that quantity of AAC to be used can be reduced to 1.00 to 1.25% (w/w) by using a combination of AAC along with rice husk ash; Al(OH)(3) gel; rice husk silica either by wet bleaching or by conventional bleaching method.
19145714	In recognition of the 200th anniversary of Charles Darwin's birth, this short article on flooding stress acknowledges not only Darwin's great contribution to the concept of evolution but also to the study of plant physiology. In modern biology, Darwin-inspired reductionist physiology continues to shed light on mechanisms that confer competitive advantage in many varied and challenging environments, including those where flooding is prevalent. Mild flooding is experienced by most land plants but as its severity increases, fewer species are able to grow and survive. At the extreme, a highly exclusive aquatic lifestyle appears to have evolved numerous times over the past 120 million years. Although only 1-2% of angiosperms are aquatics, some of their adaptive characteristics are also seen in those adopting an amphibious lifestyle where flooding is less frequent. Lowland rice, the staple cereal for much of tropical Asia falls into this category. But, even amongst dry-land dwellers, or certain of their sub-populations, modest tolerance to occasional flooding is to be found, for example in wheat. The collection of papers summarized in this article describes advances to the understanding of mechanisms that explain flooding tolerance in aquatic, amphibious and dry-land plants. Work to develop more tolerant crops or manage flood-prone environments more effectively is also included. The experimental approaches range from molecular analyses, through biochemistry and metabolomics to whole-plant physiology, plant breeding and ecology.
19146896	Transgenic plants are efficient means of producing and delivering oral vaccines. Rice material shown previously to express the Chlamydophila psittaci (Cp. psittaci) antigen (MOMP) fused to the B subunit of Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin (LTB) was fed to mice and the resulting immune response was investigated. Oral immunization of mice with the transgenic rice elicited MOMP-specific sera IgG and IgA antibodies, a strong increase of the lymphoproliferative response, and significant levels of IFN-gamma, TGF-beta and IL-2 production. Furthermore, the immunization of mice with transgenic rice elicited strong cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses in vitro. These results demonstrated that plant-made LTB-MOMP fusion protein could induce significant humoral and cellular Th1 and Th3 immune responses. Moreover, transgenic rice immunization induced partial protection (53.3%) against a lethal challenge with the highly virulent Cp. psittaci 6BC strain in a BALB/c mouse model. These results suggest that expression of protective antigens of Cp. psittaci in transgenic rice has potential as an edible vaccine against avain chlamydiosis.
19146945	Microsatellite DNA is highly polymorphic and informative, which makes its distribution pattern and its associations very valuable for marker applications and genomic research in evolution. Using computational and statistical approaches, based on database technology, we have demonstrated that microsatellite content is consistently and significantly 2 to 5 fold lower than the average chromosomal level in the centromeric and pericentromeric regions of the chromosomes of two plant species, Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. We conducted a path coefficient analysis to compare the direct effect of microsatellites (from mono-nucleotide through to penta-nucleotide repeats) on recombination rates. The results revealed that tri- and penta-nucleotide microsatellites significantly influence recombination rates. In the human genome, tri-, tetra- and mono-nucleotide microsatellites, in decreasing order, make significant direct contributions to recombination rates, according to DECODE, GENTHON, and MARSHFIELD averages. Path coefficient analysis in rice and human genomes of the impact of di-nucleotide microsatellites of different motifs on recombination rates indicate that motifs with either A or T have an effect, resulting in increased recombination rates for microsatellites with motifs consisting of 50% A or T, such as AG, TC, CA, TG. Conversely, microsatellites with motifs consisting of only A & T or G & C, such as AT, TA, GC or CG, have decreased recombination rates. The extremely low microsatellite content in centromeric and pericentromeric regions, as well as the quantitative association of microsatellite sequences with the recombination rate at the genome level, suggests that purifying selection in genome evolution creates a balance between genomic polymorphisms and the biological function of sequences in a genome.
19147115	Transgenic rice plants that accumulate the hypocholesterolemic pentapeptide lactostatin (IIAEK) as a fusion protein with the endosperm seed storage protein glutelin were developed. Plants were selected from Agrobacterium-mediated transformants using a mutated-rice acetolactate synthase (mALS) marker protein expressed under the control of the rice callus-specific promoter (CSP) (CSP:mALS). Lactostatin accumulation levels were compared in mature seeds of 78 independent transgenic rice lines selected for either the CSP:mALS gene cassette or hygromycin phosphotransferase (HPT) under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (35S:HPT). Transgenic rice seeds harboring a CSP:mALS gene cassette accumulated more (approximately 120-200% on average) lactostatin than those with a 35S:HPT gene cassette, and accumulation was largely independent of transgene copy number. Furthermore, transgenic rice seeds that were selected by HPT under the control of CSP (CSP:HPT) also accumulated more lactostatin (approximately 160% on average) than transgenic rice seeds with the 35S:HPT gene cassette. These results indicate that high-value bioactive peptides such as lactostatin can be produced at higher levels using callus-specific selection than by conventional constitutive selection. Specific expression of a marker gene at the selection stage may thus result in increased target peptide accumulation levels in seeds.
19147280	In this work, the removal of SO(2) and NO from simulated flue gas from combustion process was investigated in a fixed-bed reactor using rice husk ash (RHA)/CaO-based sorbent. Various metal precursors were used in order to select the best metal impregnated over RHA/CaO sorbents. The results showed that RHA/CaO sorbents impregnated with CeO(2) had the highest sorption capacity among other impregnated metal oxides for the simultaneous removal of SO(2) and NO. Infrared spectroscopic results indicated the formation of both sulfate (SO(4)(2-)) and nitrate (NO(3)(-)) species due to the catalytic role played by CeO(2). Apart from that, the catalytic activity of the RHA/CaO/CeO(2) sorbent was found to be closely related to its physical properties (specific surface area, total pore volume and average pore diameter).
19147920
19148289	The Koreans are generally considered a northeast Asian group because of their geographical location. However, recent findings from Y chromosome studies showed that the Korean population contains lineages from both southern and northern parts of East Asia. To understand the genetic history and relationships of Korea more fully, additional data and analyses are necessary. We analyzed mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence variation in the hypervariable segments I and II (HVS-I and HVS-II) and haplogroup-specific mutations in coding regions in 445 individuals from seven east Asian populations (Korean, Korean-Chinese, Mongolian, Manchurian, Han (Beijing), Vietnamese and Thais). In addition, published mtDNA haplogroup data (N = 3307), mtDNA HVS-I sequences (N = 2313), Y chromosome haplogroup data (N = 1697) and Y chromosome STR data (N = 2713) were analyzed to elucidate the genetic structure of East Asian populations. All the mtDNA profiles studied here were classified into subsets of haplogroups common in East Asia, with just two exceptions. In general, the Korean mtDNA profiles revealed similarities to other northeastern Asian populations through analysis of individual haplogroup distributions, genetic distances between populations or an analysis of molecular variance, although a minor southern contribution was also suggested. Reanalysis of Y-chromosomal data confirmed both the overall similarity to other northeastern populations, and also a larger paternal contribution from southeastern populations. The present work provides evidence that peopling of Korea can be seen as a complex process, interpreted as an early northern Asian settlement with at least one subsequent male-biased southern-to-northern migration, possibly associated with the spread of rice agriculture.
19148502	The most common cause of human lung cancer is suggested to be exposure to the carcinogens in tobacco smoke. Among the multiple chemicals in tobacco smoke, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) has been regarded as one of the important agents for generation of lung cancers. Previously, our studies proved that fermented brown rice and rice bran (FBRA) has chemopreventive effects against carcinogenesis of the colon, liver, stomach, bladder and esophagus. In the present study, we examined possible chemopreventive effects of FBRA on the NNK-induced lung tumorigenesis in mice. Six-week-old female A/J mice were divided into 8 groups, and groups 1-5 were given NNK (10 mmol) by i.p. injection at week 7. Groups 2 and 3 were fed with diet containing 5 and 10% FBRA during the initiation phase, respectively. Groups 4 and 5 were fed with 5% and 10% FBRA during the post-initiation phase. Groups 1 and 6 were given control diet throughout the experiment. Groups 7 and 8 were given the diet containing 5 and 10% FBRA throughout the experiment, respectively. In both initiation (group 3) and post-initiation phase (group 5), 10% FBRA exposure significantly reduced the multiplicity of lung tumor (group 3, 2.35+/-2.13; group 5, 3.00+/-1.52; group 1, 4.08+/-1.85; p<0.006 and 0.04, respectively). Furthermore, administration of FBRA during the post-initiation phase significantly decreased the tumor size in comparison with that of control mice (0.66+/-0.32 vs. 0.77+/-0.33 mm). Treatment of 10% FBRA significantly reduced the mRNA expression levels of cytochrome P450 2A5 (Cyp2a5), which is known to be closely related to the human CYP2A6 enzyme that is involved in the mutagenic activation of NNK, in the lung but not liver tissues. A significantly reduced index of Ki67 positivity of lung tumors in group 5 was confirmed when compared with tumors of the control group (0.065+/-0.016 vs. 0.114+/-0.025). These findings suggest that FBRA has inhibitory effects on NNK-induced pulmonary tumorigenesis in A/J mice in both during initiation and post-initiation treatment, which is possibly associated with the induction of Cyp2a5 in the lung and the reduced proliferation rate of tumor cells. FBRA may be a promising chemopreventive agent for human lung cancers.
19149162	Cloning of a Homologous Gene of PMK1 Type Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) from the rice false smut fungus Ustilaginoidea virens. According to the conserved amino acid sequence of several filamentous fungus MAPKs, which were homologous to Magnaporthe grisea PMKI, degenerate PCR primers were designed to amplify the MAPK internal DNA fragment from Ustilaginoidea grisea. The complete UVMK1 DNA and cDNA sequences were obtained using Thermal Asymmetric Interlaced-PCR (TAIL-PCR) and RT-PCR methods. Functional Identification was done by using the M. grisea APMKI mutant stain nn78, including appressoria differentiation assay and barley infection test. The total length of UVMKJ was 1435 bp. It contained 3 introns and encoded 355 amino acids. The induced amino acid sequence showed identical to Magnaporthe grisea PMKI, Fusarium oxysporum FMKJ, Fusarium solani FsMAPK, Colletotrichum lagenarium CMKI, Botrytis cinerea BMKI, Claviceps purpurea CMPKI. After transformation of the APMK1 mutant of M. grisea using a complement vector with the complete cDNA of UVMK1 (under the M. grisea MPG1 promoter), five transformants were obtained. Furthermore, the selected two transformants fully restored their ability to form appressoria and infect a barley leaf. In this study, we characterized the frst MAPK protein from U. virens, and that UVMK1 is a homologue of M. grisea PMK1.
19149166	The toxin produced by Erwinia chrysanthemi pv. zeae has not been reported so far. Toxin is one of the important pathogenic factors for plant pathogenic bacteria. The separation and purification of toxin are the key and basal work for toxin functional study. We used several chromatography columns, chemical and biochemical methods for Erwinia chrysanthemi pv. zeae toxin separation and its characterization. We obtained a pure ingredient T3 of Erwinia chrysanthemi pv. zeae toxin . It was a yellow solid and dissolved in methanol, N-butyl alcohol(NBA), water and formic acid. It dissolved weakly in acetone but did not dissolve in trichloromethane and ethyl acetate. The results showed that T3 toxin ingredient was neither carbohydrate nor protein, and was sensitive to ultraviolet ray. Biological assays of the toxin showed that it could inhibit rice growth, cause rice seedlings to wilt and make tobacco cells necrosis. Toxin with high content could inhibit buds and roots of rice, corn, tomato and tobacco to grow, whereas toxin with low content could promote their growth. In addition, the toxin inhibited 10 plant pathogenic bacteria with 5 genera. Furthermore, toxin T3 induced the activities of phenylalanine ammonia-lysae(PAL) and peroxidase(POD) in rice. It is the first report about the separation and purification of E. chrysanthemi pv.zeae toxin. The T3 toxin of E. chrysanthemi pv.zeae had the biological characters with inhibiting plant seeds germination, causing rice seedlings wilt, inhibiting some plant pathogenic bacteria and inducing defense enzyme activities in rice.
19149678	A new antifungal peptide designated as pomegranin, with an N-terminal sequence resembling that of rice disease resistance NB-S-LRR-like protein, was isolated from fresh pomegranate peels by ion exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose, affinity chromatography on Affi-gel blue gel, and gel filtration by fast protein liquid chromatography on Superdex 75. Pomegranin was unadsorbed on DEAE-cellulose but adsorbed on Affi-gel blue gel. It exhibited a molecular mass of 11 kDa in both gel filtration and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. It inhibited mycelial growth in the fungi Botrytis cinerea and Fusarium oxysporum with an IC(50) of 2 microM and 6.1 microM, respectively. It was devoid of hemagglutinating, ribonuclease, deoxyribonuclease and protease inhibitory activities.
19150620	In this paper we report the synthesis of four fluorinated analogues of brassinosteroids in which fluorine was introduced stereoselectively at C-2. The bioactivity of these new compounds was evaluated using the rice lamina inclination test. The results show that two of these analogues elicit high bioactivity, suggesting the involvement of hydrogen bond interactions between the active brassinosteroids and their cellular receptor.
19150987	A collection of 5006 full-length (FL) cDNA sequences was developed in barley. Fifteen mRNA samples from various organs and treatments were pooled to develop a cDNA library using the CAP trapper method. More than 60% of the clones were confirmed to have complete coding sequences, based on comparison with rice amino acid and UniProt sequences. Blastn homologies (E<1E-5) to rice genes and Arabidopsis genes were 89 and 47%, respectively. Of the 5028 possible amino acid sequences derived from the 5006 FLcDNAs, 4032 (80.2%) were classified into 1678 GreenPhyl multigenic families. There were 555 cDNAs showing low homology to both rice and Arabidopsis. Gene ontology annotation by InterProScan indicated that many of these cDNAs (71%) have no known molecular functions and may be unique to barley. The cDNAs showed high homology to Barley 1 GeneChip oligo probes (81%) and the wheat gene index (84%). The high homology between FLcDNAs (27%) and mapped barley expressed sequence tag enabled assigning linkage map positions to 151-233 FLcDNAs on each of the seven barley chromosomes. These comprehensive barley FLcDNAs provide strong platform to connect pre-existing genomic and genetic resources and accelerate gene identification and genome analysis in barley and related species. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank Data Libraries under accession nos AK248134-AK253139. The online database with annotation is available at http://www.shigen.nig.ac.jp/barley/.
1915196	Comparison was made of the reported frequency of consumption or choice of 30 food items by 8860 adults in the 11 standard regions of Great Britain, with the use of log-linear analysis to allow for the age, sex, social class and smoking habit variations between the regions. The South-East was taken as the base region against which the others were compared. The number of food items for which there were significant differences from the South-East were Scotland 23, North 25, North-West and Yorkshire/Humberside 20, Wales 19, West Midlands 15, East Midlands 10, East Anglia 8, South-West 7 and Greater London 9. Overall the findings confirm a North/South trend in relation to eating habits, even when demographic and smoking-habit variations are taken into account, with the frequent consumption of many fruit and vegetable products being much less common and of several high-fat foods (chips, processed meats and fried food) more common in Scotland, Wales and the northern part of England. In most regions there was a significantly lower frequency of consumption of fresh fruit, fruit juice, 'brown' bread, pasta/rice, poultry, skimmed/semi-skimmed milk, light desserts and nuts, and a higher consumption of red meat, fish and fried food than in the South-East.
19152375	Magnaporthe grisea (Hebert) ME Barr infection is one of the most serious diseases for cultivated rice in the world. Sterol 14alpha-demethylase (CYP51) is an important drug target for microbial pathogenic infections. To exploit specific and effective fungicides for M. grisea better, the authors have analysed the characteristics of interaction between sterol 14alpha-demethylase from M. grisea (MGCYP51) and azoles. MGCYP51 with truncation of N-terminal residues was cloned and expressed in E. coli, difference binding spectra of MGCYP51 induced by addition of four commercial azoles were determined and molecular modelling of MGCYP51 based on the crystal structure of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Lehmann & Newman and docking with the azoles were performed. The affinity of the azoles for MGCYP51 was positively correlated with their hydrophobicity. Amino acid residues Tyr112, Phe120, Phe220, His308 and Phe497 of MGCYP51, forming a large hydrophobic cavity, are the key residues interacting with azole fungicides. Furthermore, Phe220 and Phe497 are fungus and species specific respectively. The results suggest that the more potent azole fungicides for MGCYP51 should possess more hydrophobic groups interacting with residues Phe220 and Phe497.
1915276	Phytochrome represses transcription of its own phyA genes within 5 min of light-triggered conversion to its active Pfr form. We have utilized microprojectile mediated gene transfer into etiolated rice seedlings to delineate sequence elements in the oat phyA3 promoter responsible for this regulation. Linker-scan mutagenesis of this promoter has identified two positive elements which together are necessary for maximal transcription in the absence of Pfr. These elements are designated PE1, centered at position -357 bp, and PE3, centered at position -96 bp. Sequence mutagenesis immediately downstream of PE3 results in maximal transcription in the presence of high Pfr levels, indicating that Pfr represses phyA3 transcription through a negatively acting sequence element. This element, designated RE1, with the sequence CATGGGCGCGG, encompasses a motif that is highly conserved in all monocot phyA promoters thus far characterized. DNase I protection analysis indicates that oat nuclear extracts contain multiple factors that bind to an array of sequence motifs, including PE1 and part of PE3, within 400 bp upstream of the oat phyA3 transcription start site. This DNA-binding pattern is not altered by Pfr. Weak binding to part of the RE1 motif is evident but also with no difference between high and low Pfr levels. We conclude that the signal transduction chain that mediates Pfr-directed repression of phyA3 transcription terminates with a negatively acting transcription factor that binds to the sequence element RE1.
19153009	In this study the removal of free cyanide from aqueous solutions by air oxidation and adsorption was investigated. Effects of air and pure oxygen, and catalyst on the rate and extent of the removal of cyanide were studied. It was found that the oxidative removal of cyanide by air/oxygen was very limited although it tended to improve in the presence of pure oxygen and catalyst such as activated carbon (AC) and copper sulphate. In the presence of continuous aeration, the non-oxidative removal of cyanide was correlated with a decrease in pH effected apparently by the transfer of carbon dioxide from air phase into the medium. The removal of cyanide by adsorption on activated carbon, nut shell (NS) and rice husk (RH) was also examined. Adsorption capacity of activated carbon was shown to be significantly enhanced via impregnation of activated carbons with metals such as copper (AC-Cu) and silver (AC-Ag). In the column tests, the breakthrough capacity of adsorbents was found to be in an increasing order of RH<AC<AC-Cu<AC-Ag.
19153255	Rice blast, caused by the fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, is one of the most devastating diseases of rice. To understand the molecular basis of Pi5-mediated resistance to M. oryzae, we cloned the resistance (R) gene at this locus using a map-based cloning strategy. Genetic and phenotypic analyses of 2014 F2 progeny from a mapping population derived from a cross between IR50, a susceptible rice cultivar, and the RIL260 line carrying Pi5 enabled us to narrow down the Pi5 locus to a 130-kb interval. Sequence analysis of this genomic region identified two candidate genes, Pi5-1 and Pi5-2, which encode proteins carrying three motifs characteristic of R genes: an N-terminal coiled-coil (CC) motif, a nucleotide-binding (NB) domain, and a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motif. In genetic transformation experiments of a susceptible rice cultivar, neither the Pi5-1 nor the Pi5-2 gene was found to confer resistance to M. oryzae. In contrast, transgenic rice plants expressing both of these genes, generated by crossing transgenic lines carrying each gene individually, conferred Pi5-mediated resistance to M. oryzae. Gene expression analysis revealed that Pi5-1 transcripts accumulate after pathogen challenge, whereas the Pi5-2 gene is constitutively expressed. These results indicate that the presence of these two genes is required for rice Pi5-mediated resistance to M. oryzae.
19153456	The gltX gene from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo1504) encodes glutamyl-tRNA synthetase (GluRS), one of the most important enzymes involved in bacterial blight (BB), which causes huge production losses of rice worldwide. GluRS is a class I-type aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase (aaRS) that is primarily responsible for the glutamylation of tRNA(Glu). It plays an essential role in protein synthesis, as well as the regulation of cells, in all organisms. As it represents an important target for the development of new antibacterial drugs against BB, determination of the three-dimensional structure of GluRS is essential in order to understand its catalytic mechanism. In order to analyze its structure and function, the gltX gene was cloned and the GluRS enzyme was expressed, purified and then crystallized. A GluRS crystal belonging to the monoclinic space group C2 diffracted to 2.8 A resolution and had unit-cell parameters a = 186.8, b = 108.4, c = 166.1 A, beta = 96.3 degrees . The unit-cell volume of the crystal allowed the presence of six to eight monomers in the asymmetric unit, with a corresponding Matthews coefficient (V(M)) range of 2.70-2.02 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent-content range of 54.5-39.3%.
19154168	The goal of this paper was to study the accumulation of selenium (Se) in different cultivars of brown rice and its distribution in fractions. The results of the study showed that Se content in brown rice increased significantly (P < 0.01) as the external selenite or selenate concentrations increased from 10 to 180 micromol/L. In contrast, no significant influence (P > 0.05) on germination percentage and growth of sprouts was observed when the supplied Se was lower than 60 micromol/L. Moreover, selenite was easily transformed into selenoproteins to selenate. Based on this, ten brown rice cultivars were compared for Se accumulation. Likewise, significant difference (P < 0.01) was found among cultivars with respect to the capacity for Se accumulation. To understand the distribution of Se in selenized brown rice and its loss during milling, two cultivars with relatively higher ability to accumulate Se, namely, Zhendao 8 (Z8) and Xieyou 57 (X57), were selected for further study. The results showed that Se content was highest in the sprouts and decreased remarkably (P < 0.01) from the bran layers to the endosperm. In terms of Se loss during the milling procedure, 39.02% and 48.46% of Se were lost in Z8 and X57, respectively.
19154200	The architecture of the rice inflorescence, which is determined mainly by the number and length of primary and secondary inflorescence branches, is of importance in both agronomy and developmental biology. The position and number of primary branches are established during the phase transition from vegetative to reproductive growth, and several of the genes identified as participating in this process do so by regulating the meristemic activities of inflorescence. However, little is known about the molecular mechanism that controls inflorescence branch elongation. Here, we report on a novel rice mutant, short panicle1 (sp1), which is defective in rice panicle elongation, and thus leads to the short-panicle phenotype. Gene cloning and characterization indicate that SP1 encodes a putative transporter that belongs to the peptide transporter (PTR) family. This conclusion is based on the findings that SP1 contains a conserved PTR2 domain consisting of 12 transmembrane domains, and that the SP1-GFP fusion protein is localized in the plasma membrane. The SP1 gene is highly expressed in the phloem of the branches of young panicles, which is consistent with the predicted function of SP1 and the sp1 phenotype. Phylogenetic analysis implies that SP1 might be a nitrate transporter. However, neither nitrate transporter activity nor any other compounds transported by known PTR proteins could be detected in either a Xenopus oocyte or yeast system, in our study, suggesting that SP1 may need other component(s) to be able to function as a transporter, or that it transports unknown substrates in the monocotyledonous rice plant.
19154227	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) accumulates prolamines and glutelins as its major storage proteins. Glutelins are synthesized on rough endoplasmic reticulum as 57-kDa precursors; they are then sorted into protein storage vacuoles where they are processed into acidic and basic subunits. We report a novel rice glutelin mutant, W379, which accumulates higher levels of the 57-kDa glutelin precursor. Genetic analysis revealed that the W379 phenotype is controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene. Using a map-based cloning strategy, we identified this gene, OsVPE1, which is a homolog of the Arabidopsis betaVPE gene. OsVPE1 encodes a 497-amino-acid polypeptide. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed a missense mutation in W379 that changes Cys269 to Gly. Like the wild-type protein, the mutant protein is sorted into vacuoles; however, the enzymatic activity of the mutant OsVPE1 is almost completely eliminated. Further, we show that OsVPE1 is incorrectly cleaved, resulting in a mature protein that is smaller than the wild-type mature protein. Taken together, these results demonstrate that OsVPE1 is a cysteine protease that plays a crucial role in the maturation of rice glutelins. Further, OsVPE1 Cys269 is a key residue for maintaining the Asn-specific cleavage activity of OsVPE1.
19154618	Cadmium (Cd) translocation and accumulation in the grain and aerial plant parts of rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important aspect of food safety and phytoextraction in areas with contaminated soil. Because control of Cd translocation and accumulation is likely to be determined by the plants genetics, the Cd contents of grain and the aerial parts of rice may be manipulated to improve food safety and for phytoextraction ability. This study studied Cd translocation and accumulation and their genetic control in aerial parts of rice to provide a starting point for improving food safety and phytoextraction in Cd-contaminated soils. In the japonica rice cultivar "Nipponbare", Cd accumulated in leaves and culms until heading, and in culms and ears after heading. Two quantitative trait loci (QTLs) from indica cv. "Kasalath", qcd4-1 and qcd4-2, affect Cd concentrations in upper plant parts just before heading. Three near-isogenic lines (NILs) with qcd4-1 and qcd4-2 were selected from the "Nipponbare" background, and were analyzed for the effects of each QTL, and for interactions between the two QTLs. From the results compared between "Nipponbare" and each NIL, neither QTL influenced total Cd accumulation in aerial parts at 5 days after heading, but the interaction between two QTLs increased Cd accumulation. At 35 days after heading, qcd4-2 had increased Cd accumulation in the aerial plant parts and decreased translocation from leaves other than flag leaf, but interaction between the two QTLs increased translocation from leaves. NILqcd4-1,2 accumulated higher concentrations of Cd in brown rice than "Nipponbare". Three types of Cd translocation and accumulation patterns demonstrated by NILs suggested that the accumulation of Cd in leaves and culms before heading, and translocation from them after heading are responsible for Cd accumulation in grain. Cd translocation from roots to culms and ears after heading may direct Cd to the aerial organs without influencing brown rice accumulation.
19156658	Charge matters! The charge state significantly influences the conformation and the binding energy between vancomycin antibiotic and bacterial cell-wall analogue peptides (see figure). Surface-induced dissociation (SID) studies provide a quantitative comparison between the stabilities of different charge states of the complex.In this study we examined the effect of the charge state on the energetics and dynamics of dissociation of the noncovalent complex between the vancomycin and the cell-wall peptide analogue N(alpha),N(epsilon)-diacetyl-L-Lys-D-Ala-D-Ala (V-Ac(2)LKdAdA). The binding energies between the vancomycin and the peptide were obtained from the RRKM (Rice, Ramsperger, Kassel, Marcus) modeling of the time- and energy-resolved surface-induced dissociation (SID) experiments. Our results demonstrate that the stability of the complex towards fragmentation increases in the order: doubly protonated<singly protonated<deprotonated. Dissociation of the singly protonated and singly deprotonated complex is characterized by very large entropy effects, which indicate a substantial increase in the conformational flexibility of the resulting products. The experimental threshold energies of (1.75+/-0.08) eV ((40.3+/-1.8) kcal mol(-1)) and (1.34+/-0.08) eV ((30.9+/-1.8) kcal mol(-1)) obtained for the deprotonated and singly protonated complexes, respectively, are in excellent agreement with the results of density functional theory calculations. The increased stability of the deprotonated complex observed experimentally is attributed to the presence of three charged sites in the deprotonated complex, as compared with only one charged site in the singly protonated complex. The low binding energy of (0.93+/-0.04) eV ((21.4+/-0.9) kcal mol(-1)) obtained for the doubly protonated complex suggests that this ion is destabilized by Coulomb repulsion between the singly protonated vancomycin and the singly protonated peptide comprising the complex.
19157494	In order to assess pollutant transfer in Camargue ponds from bordering agrosystems, a biomonitoring assay was conducted in irrigation and drainage channels of rice fields in the Rhone Delta (France). A filter-feeding bivalve, the Asian clam, Corbicula fluminea, was used as bioindicator and caged in upstream and downstream channels of an area of conventional rice fields. After 6 weeks incubation, many lipophilic biocides were identified in Corbicula tissues, including pesticides used in rice plantations (pretilachlor, oxadiazon), pesticides presumed in use in the Rhone basin [diuron and its metabolite 3,4 dichloroaniline (3,4-DCA)] and organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) banned for several decades. In addition, PCBs were highly bioaccumulated in Corbicula. Downstream bivalves had significantly lower concentrations of OCPs, PCB and 3,4-DCA. However, the exposure biomarkers (glutathione S-transferase, catalase and propionylcholinesterase) were not correlated with the decreased concentrations. The results of this experiment raise several questions concerning the potential role of immersed plants in a retention process.
19157639	YABBY family proteins are plant-specific transcriptional factors. YABBY genes can be divided into three subfamilies. Within the CRC/DL subfamily, the Arabidopsis CRC (CRABS CLAW) and the rice DL (DROOPING LEAF) have functionally diverged in the control of leaf development. CRC has no function in leaf development, while DL plays an important role in the formation of leaf midribs. In this study LiYAB1, an ortholog of CRC/DL genes from lily (Lilium longiflorum), was isolated by screening a cDNA library derived from young lily flower buds. Subcellular localization analysis indicated that LiYAB1 is nuclear localized. LiYAB1 is expressed strongly in the carpels of the lily flower and weakly in the leaves, which is similar to DL in rice. Ectopic expression of LiYAB1 in the rice dl mutant could rescue the drooping leaf phenotype of dl in some of the transgenic rice plants and cause abnormal leaves in the other transgenic plants. The overexpression of LiYAB1 in the wild-type Arabidopsis caused leaf abnormality. The results suggest that LiYAB1, a member of the CRC/DL subfamily genes, might have an important function in regulating the leaf development in lilies, as DL does in rice.
19157661	The potential impact of six antibiotics (chlortetracycline, tetracycline and tylosin; sulfamethoxazole, sulfamethazine and trimethoprim) on plant growth and soil quality was studied by using seed germination test on filter paper and plant growth test in soil, soil respiration and phosphatase activity tests. The phytotoxic effects varied between the antibiotics and between plant species (sweet oat, rice and cucumber). Rice was most sensitive to sulfamethoxazole with the EC10 value of 0.1 mg/L. The antibiotics tested inhibited soil phosphatase activity during the 22 days' incubation. Significant effects on soil respiration were found for the two sulfonamides (sulfamethoxazole and sulfamethazine) and trimethoprim, whereas little effects were observed for the two tetracyclines and tylosin. The effective concentrations (EC10 values) for soil respiration in the first 2 days were 7 mg/kg for sulfamethoxazole, 13 mg/kg for sulfamethazine and 20 mg/kg for trimethoprim. Antibiotic residues in manure and soils may affect soil microbial and enzyme activities.
19158209	A previous study of healthy subjects showed that intake of 6 g cinnamon with rice pudding reduced postprandial blood glucose and the gastric emptying rate (GER) without affecting satiety. The objective was to study the effect of 1 and 3 g cinnamon on GER, postprandial blood glucose, plasma concentrations of insulin and incretin hormones [glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1)], the ghrelin response, and satiety in healthy subjects. GER was measured by using real-time ultrasonography after ingestion of rice pudding with and without 1 or 3 g cinnamon. Fifteen healthy subjects were assessed in a crossover trial. The addition of 1 or 3 g cinnamon had no significant effect on GER, satiety, glucose, GIP, or the ghrelin response. The insulin response at 60 min and the area under the curve (AUC) at 120 min were significantly lower after ingestion of rice pudding with 3 g cinnamon (P = 0.05 and P = 0.036, respectively, after Bonferroni correction). The change in GLP-1 response (DeltaAUC) and the change in the maximum concentration (DeltaC(max)) were both significantly higher after ingestion of rice pudding with 3 g cinnamon (P = 0.0082 and P = 0.0138, respectively, after Bonferroni correction). Ingestion of 3 g cinnamon reduced postprandial serum insulin and increased GLP-1 concentrations without significantly affecting blood glucose, GIP, the ghrelin concentration, satiety, or GER in healthy subjects. The results indicate a relation between the amount of cinnamon consumed and the decrease in insulin concentration.
19158222	We examined whether the adherence to major dietary patterns at baseline of 5824 nondiabetic Danes (30-60 y) enrolled in the nonpharmacological Inter99 intervention predicted changes in fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and postchallenge 2-h plasma glucose (2h-PG) concentrations during a 5 y period and whether a potential association was dependent on baseline glucose tolerance status. Through principal component analysis, a score for a traditional dietary pattern (characterized by higher intakes of high-fat sandwich spreads, red meat, potatoes, butter and lard, low-fat fish, sandwich meat, and sauces) and a score for a modern dietary pattern (characterized by higher intakes of vegetables, fruit, vegetable oil/vinegar dressing, poultry, pasta, rice, and cereals) were estimated for each person at baseline. Random effect models adjusting for relevant confounders were used to estimate changes in repetitive measures of FPG and 2h-PG. A higher modern score (of 1 SD) predicted an annual decrease in 2h-PG of 0.015 mmol/L (P < 0.01) regardless of glucose tolerance status. For individuals with isolated impaired glucose tolerance, a higher traditional score (of 1 SD) predicted an annual increase in 2h-PG of 0.083 mmol/L (P < 0.0001). In conclusion, glucose tolerance status did not, in general, affect the predictive effect of the dietary patterns. The study suggests that the risk of worsening 2h-PG concentrations may be smaller for individuals with a high modern dietary pattern score characterized by high intakes of vegetables, fruit, vegetable oil/vinegar dressing, poultry, pasta, rice, and cereals.
19158229	Zinc deficiency is a major public health problem in many developing countries. However, its prevalence is still unknown in most populations. Women of reproductive age in developing countries are highly vulnerable to nutritional deficiencies, including that of zinc. To estimate the prevalence of zinc deficiency and to identify important dietary sources of zinc, we undertook a cross-sectional survey in 500 nonpregnant Nepalese women and measured their plasma zinc concentrations. We also examined the associations between plasma zinc and dietary intake of zinc or phytate, iron status, plasma concentrations of C-reactive protein, albumin, and hemoglobin. Food intake was estimated by 2 24-h dietary recalls and 1 FFQ for each woman. The plasma zinc concentration was (mean +/- SD) 8.5 +/- 2.4 micromol/L and more than three-quarters of the women were zinc deficient. Dietary zinc intake did not predict plasma zinc concentration, whereas phytate intake was negatively and significantly associated with plasma zinc. The other variables that were associated with plasma zinc were plasma albumin and hemoglobin concentration. Rice contributed 50% to the total estimated daily zinc intake and wheat and meat each contributed 15%. Rice also contributed 68% to the daily intake of phytate. In conclusion, we found that zinc deficiency was common in women of reproductive age and that the foods contributing substantial amounts of zinc also contributed importantly to the intake of phytate.
19159310	The estrogenic mycotoxin zearalenone (ZON) produced by some Fusarium spp. causes reproductive problems and hyperestrogenic syndromes in mammals. In an effort to elucidate the molecular pathways of ZON production, we present a comparative real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction expression study of seven contiguous genes in the ZON biosynthetic cluster on sterile rice and during wheat and oat infection. Under ZON production on rice, the polyketide synthase (PKS) genes PKS4 and PKS13, alcohol oxidase FG12056 gene, and transcriptional regulator FG02398 gene showed similarly upregulated patterns, whereas the nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NPS) FG02394, the K(+) channel beta subunit FG12015, and the protein kinase FG02399 displayed a variant pattern. During the same time period under wheat infection when no ZON was produced, the PKS genes and the NPS were downregulated relative to rice whereas the K(+) channel beta subunit gene FG12015 was markedly upregulated, suggesting that it may play a role in the infection process. This is the first expression study of ZON biosynthetic genes in planta. The results give insight into the regulation and activities of the ZON gene cluster under different experimental systems and suggest a connection between ZON and a K(+) channel that could reveal a novel function for ZON in Fusarium spp.
19160020	Bioactive glass is currently regarded as the most biocompatible material in the bone regeneration field because of its bioactivity, osteoconductivity and even osteoinductivity. In the present work porous glass-ceramic scaffolds, which were prepared from the 45S5 Bioglass by foaming with rice husks and sintering at 1050 degrees C for 1 h, have been developed. The produced scaffolds were characterized for their morphology, properties and bioactivity. Micrographs taken using a scanning electron microscope (SEM) were used for analysis of macropores, mesopores and micropores, respectively. The bioactivity of the porous glass-ceramic scaffolds was investigated using simulated body fluid (SBF) and characterized by SEM, energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) and X-ray diffraction (XRD). A great potential scaffold that provides sufficient mechanical support temporarily while maintaining bioactivity, and that can biodegrade at later stages is achievable with the developed 45S5 Bioglass-derived scaffolds.
19160059	The total mercury (T-Hg) and methyl mercury (Me-Hg) concentrations in the hair were measured to evaluate mercury (Hg) exposure for the residents in Da-shui-xi Village (DSX) and Xia-chang-xi Village (XCX) in the Wanshan Hg mining area, Guizhou Province, Southwestern China. The mean concentrations in the hair of DSX residents were 5.5 ± 2.7 μg/g and 1.9 ± 0.9 μg/g for T-Hg and Me-Hg, respectively. The concentrations in the hair of XCX residents were 3.3 ± 1.4 μg/g and 1.2 ± 0.5 μg/g for T-Hg and Me-Hg, respectively. Hair Me-Hg concentrations were significantly correlated to T-Hg (r = 0.42, P < 0.01) in the two sites; on average, hair Me-Hg concentration accounted for 40 and 44% of T-Hg for DSX and XCX residents, respectively. Age has no obvious correlation with hair Hg and the hair Hg levels showed a significant gender difference, with higher T-Hg and Me-Hg concentrations in the hair from males than females. The rice collected from the two sites showed high levels of T-Hg and Me-Hg concentration. The results indicated a certain Hg exposure for the residents in DSX and XCX in the Wanshan Hg mining area.
19161350	The vascular pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) and nonvascular pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc) cause bacterial blight (BB) and bacterial leaf streak (BLS) diseases of rice, respectively. We have previously identified the avirulence gene avrXa27 from Xoo PXO99(A), which specifically induces the expression of the rice resistance gene Xa27, ultimately leading to resistance against BB disease in rice. In this study, we have generated a transgenic rice line (L24) that expresses avrXa27 constitutively under the control of the PR1 promoter, and have examined its role in the host-pathogen interaction. L24 is not more susceptible to BB, indicating that avrXa27 does not contribute to virulence. AvrXa27 retains avirulence activity in L24 and, after crossing with a line containing Xa27, progeny display phenotypic changes including inhibition of tillering, delay in flowering, stiff leaves, early leaf senescence and activation of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes. On challenge with a variety of compatible strains of Xoo and Xoc strain L8, lines with both avrXa27 and Xa27 also show enhanced resistance to bacterial infection. The induction of Xa27 and subsequent inhibition of Xoc growth in Xa27 plants are observed on inoculation with Xoc L8 harbouring avrXa27. Our results indicate that the heterologous expression of avrXa27 in rice containing Xa27 triggers R gene-specific resistance and, at the same time, confers enhanced resistance to compatible strains of Xoo and Xoc. The expression of AvrXa27 and related proteins in plants has the potential to generate broad resistance in plants.
19161355	The plant pathogenic fungus Magnaporthe grisea is able to enter its host via appressorium-mediated penetration. Earlier investigations have shown that these infection structures are rich in the cell wall polysaccharide chitin. Previously, we have described how the transcription of a class VII chitin synthase-encoding gene CHS7 is completely dependent on the putative transcription factor Con7p during the germination of conidia, and how con7(-) mutants are unable to form appressoria under any conditions tested. Because of the pleiotropic effects of the con7(-) mutation, we examined the consequences of the targeted deletion of CHS7. The chs7(-) mutants generated were unable to form appressoria on artificial surfaces, except following the application of the exogenous inducers 1,16-hexadecanediol and cyclic adenosine monophosphate. The appressoria formed had a reduced chitin content and were often found to be smaller and misshapen compared with the wild-type. chs7(-) mutants were significantly reduced in their ability to enter rice plants, but growth in planta was not affected. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated that CHS7 transcription was strongly induced on germination of spores, and a green fluorescent protein-tagged Chs7p protein was found to be produced abundantly during infection-related morphogenesis. Together, these data suggest that the class VII chitin synthase Chs7p of M. grisea is required for normal appressorium formation and function.
19161601	Induced resistance is a state of enhanced defensive capacity developed by a plant reacting to specific biotic or chemical stimuli. Over the years, several forms of induced resistance have been characterized, including systemic acquired resistance, which is induced upon localized infection by an avirulent necrotizing pathogen, and induced systemic resistance (ISR), which is elicited by selected strains of nonpathogenic rhizobacteria. However, contrary to the relative wealth of information on inducible defense responses in dicotyledoneous plants, our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying induced resistance phenomena in cereal crops is still in its infancy. Using a combined cytomolecular and pharmacological approach, we analyzed the host defense mechanisms associated with the establishment of ISR in rice by the rhizobacterium Serratia plymuthica IC1270. In a standardized soil-based assay, root treatment with IC1270 rendered foliar tissues more resistant to the hemibiotrophic pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae, causal agent of the devastating rice blast disease. Analysis of the cytological and biochemical alterations associated with restriction of fungal growth in IC1270-induced plants revealed that IC1270 primes rice for enhanced attacker-induced accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and autofluorescent phenolic compounds in and near epidermal cells displaying dense cytoplasmic granulation. Similar, yet more abundant, phenotypes of hypersensitively dying cells in the vicinity of fungal hyphae were evident in a gene-for-gene interaction with an avirulent M. oryzae strain, suggesting that IC1270-inducible ISR and R protein conditioned effector-triggered immunity (ETI) target similar defense mechanisms. Yet, this IC1270-inducible ISR response seems to act as a double-edged sword within the rice defense network as induced plants displayed an increased vulnerability to the necrotrophic pathogens Rhizoctonia solani and Cochliobolus miyabeanus. Artificial enhancement of ROS levels in inoculated leaves faithfully mimicked the opposite effects of IC1270 bacteria on aforementioned pathogens, suggesting a central role for oxidative events in the IC1270-induced resistance mechanism. Besides identifying ROS as modulators of antagonistic defense mechanisms in rice, this work reveals the mechanistic similarities between S. plymuthica-mediated ISR and R protein-dictated ETI and underscores the importance of using appropriate innate defense mechanisms when breeding for broad-spectrum rice disease resistance.
19161943	The ARGOS gene in Arabidopsis plays a key role in controlling plant organ size. To determine the function of it's ortholog in rice, a putative ARGOS orthologous gene from rice tissues was isolated and designated as OsARGOS. This gene has only one copy in the rice genome. OsARGOS transcripts were detected in most of rice tissues, particularly in the young tissues, and its expression was induced in rice seedlings by the application of either auxin or cytokinin. Arabidopsis plants expressing OsARGOS led to larger organs, such as leaves and siliques, compared with wild-type plants. Interestingly, the root growth was also enhanced in these transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Therefore, the biomass of the transgenic plants was significantly increased. Further analysis revealed that, different from the ARGOS and ARGOS-LIKE genes in Arabidopsis, the OsARGOS gene enlarged organ by an increase in both cell number and cell size. In addition, the transcript levels of several organ size-associated genes regulating either cell division or cell growth were upregulated in the transgenic Arabidopsis plants. We also transferred the OsARGOS gene to rice, but the transgenic plants did not show any changes in organ size compared with the control plants. It is likely that the function of OsARGOS in organ size control depends on other size regulators in rice. The expression of OsARGOS in Arabidopsis may activate the signaling pathways that control cell proliferation and cell expansion during the course of plant growth and development. Since the expression of OsARGOS causes organ enlargement, the potential application of this gene through genetic engineering may significantly improve the production of biomass in agricultural practice.
19162122	The cooking-induced changes in the levels of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), hexachlorobenzene (HCB), and 16 polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in various foodstuffs were investigated. Foods included fish (sardine, hake and tuna), meat (veal steak, loin of pork, breast and thigh of chicken, and steak and rib of lamb), string bean, potato, rice, and olive oil. For each food item, raw and cooked (fried, grilled, roasted, boiled) samples were analyzed. There were some variations in the concentrations of PBDEs before and after cooking. However, they depended not only on the cooking process, but mainly on the specific food item. The highest HCB concentrations were found in sardine, being lower in cooked samples. All cooking processes enhanced HCB levels in hake, while very scarce differences could be noted in tuna (raw and cooked). In general terms, the highest PAH concentrations were found after frying by being the values especially notable in fish, excepting hake, where the highest total PAH levels corresponded to roasted samples. The results of this study show that, in general, cooking processes are only of a limited value as a means of reducing PBDE, HCB and PAH concentrations in food.
19162526	In leaves of C4 grasses such as maize, photosynthetic activities are partitioned between bundle-sheath and mesophyll cells, leading to increased photosynthetic yield, particularly under stress conditions. As we discuss here, recent comparative chloroplast proteome analyses in maize have shown specific adaptation to C4-cell-specific differentiation of the photosynthetic apparatus, primary and secondary metabolism and metabolite transporters, as well as the chloroplast protein homeostasis machinery. Furthermore, a novel bundle-sheath-enriched 1000-kDa NADPH dehydrogenase 'supercomplex' has been identified, and we discuss its possible role in inorganic carbon concentration. These breakthroughs provide new opportunities to further unravel C4 pathways and to increase crop productivity through metabolic engineering of C4 pathways into C3 plants, such as rice.
19164767	Comparative genomics is a powerful tool to decipher gene and genome evolution. Placing multiple genome comparisons in a phylogenetic context improves the sensitivity of evolutionary inferences. In the genus Oryza, this comparative approach can be used to investigate gene function, genome evolution, domestication, polyploidy, and ecological adaptation. A large genomic region surrounding the MONOCULM1 (MOC1) locus was chosen for study in 14 Oryza species, including 10 diploids and 4 allotetraploids. Sequencing and annotation of 18 bacterial artificial chromosome clones for these species revealed highly conserved gene colinearity and structure in the MOC1 region. Since the Oryza radiation about 14 Mya, differences in transposon amplification appear to be responsible for the different current sizes of the Oryza genomes. In the MOC1 region, transposons were only conserved between genomes of the same type (e.g., AA or BB). In addition to the conserved gene content, several apparent genes have been generated de novo or uniquely retained in the AA lineage. Two different 3-gene segments have been inserted into the MOC1 region of O. coarctata (KK) or O. sativa by unknown mechanism(s). Large and apparently noncoding sequences flanking the MOC1 gene were observed to be under strong purifying selection. The allotetraploids Oryza alta and Oryza minuta were found to be products of recent polyploidization, less than 1.6 and 0.4 Mya, respectively. In allotetraploids, pseudogenization of duplicated genes was common, caused by large deletions, small frame-shifting insertions/deletions, or nonsense mutations.
1916607	Ocular manifestations were studied in 91 Yusho patients who took the contaminated rice oil 22 years ago. Tear film dysfunction was examined using the rose bengal test. Eighty-seven percent of the patients complained eye discharge, although edema of the eyelid and pigmentation of the conjunctiva were rarely seen. Cystic swelling of the tarsal glands was seen in 16 patients (18%) and white cheese-like contents in the tarsal glands were detected in 7 patients (8%). Twenty-five patients showed positive staining with the rose bengal test, although the intensity of the staining was slight. From this study it appears that there may not be tear film dysfunction in Yusho patients.
19166070	Two flocks of broiler chickens aged 15 to 30 days presented respiratory signs such as dyspnea and up to 25% mortality. These were the only two flocks in the farm where a bed of sunflower shells was used instead of the rice-hull bedding used in other flocks. At necropsy, severe ascites, right heart hypertrophy, pulmonary congestion, and extensive multifocal granulomatous pneumonia were recorded. Histopathologic examination revealed chronic multifocal mycotic granulomatous pneumonia. Aspergillus fumigatus was identified by microbiologic study from pulmonary specimens. After disinfecting the floor and changing the bedding, no clinical signs were recorded in the farm. Severe chronic granulomatous pneumonia caused by A. fumigatus in the chickens of the present study may have caused hypoxia, leading to pulmonary hypertension, heart failure, and ascites.
1916629	Leukotoxin, 9: 10-epoxy-12-octadecenoic acid, was reported to exist in human burned skin and neutrophils, and to have toxic effects in experimental animals and antifungal effects against rice blast disease. Leukotoxin was regarded as a toxic and/or defensive substance in living beings. The author synthesized leukotoxin from linoleic acid with peracetic acid and purified practically by thin layer chromatography. The leukotoxin synthesized was injected into guinea pigs intravenously and caused a systemic convulsion of the animal body and cardiac arrest. The leukotoxin synthesized, on the other hand, was conjugated with bovine serum albumin (BSA) by means of the mixed anhydride technique and immunized in rabbits. After immunization of leukotoxin conjugated with BSA over 4 months, the author succeeded in producing anti-leukotoxin antiserum for the first time. According to a titration test of antiserum, sixty-folds diluted antiserum was found to bind approximately 50% of methylated leukotoxin labeled with carbon 14. And unlabeled leukotoxin was detected at least 5 ng in this radioimmunoassay by use of polyethylene glycol precipitation. This antiserum had a strong specificity to leukotoxin and no cross-reactivity to the other analogs tested. The role of leukotoxin in living creatures had not been clarified yet. Therefore both the leukotoxin synthesized by this simple procedure and the anti-leukotoxin antibodies would aid the study of the mechanism of its biological activities and its histochemical investigations.
19166488	Embryo sac abortion is one of the major reasons for sterility in indica/japonica hybrids in rice. To clarify the causal mechanism of embryo sac abortion, we studied the female gametophyte development in two indica/japonica hybrids via an eosin B staining procedure for embryo sac scanning using confocal laser scanning microscope. Different types of abnormalities occurred during megasporogenesis and megagametogenesis were demonstrated. The earliest abnormality was observed in the megasporocyte. A lot of the chalazal-most megaspores were degenerated before the mono-nucleate embryo sac stage. Disordered positioning of nucleus and abnormal nucellus tissue were characteristics of the abnormal female gametes from the mono-nucleate to four-nucleate embryo sac stages. The abnormalities that occurred from the early stage of the eight-nucleate embryo sac development to the mature embryo sac stage were characterized by smaller sizes and wrinkled antipodals. Asynchronous nuclear migration, abnormal positioning of nucleus, and degeneration of egg apparatus were also found at the eight-nucleate embryo sac stage. The abnormalities that occurred during female gametophyte development resulted in five major types of abnormal embryo sacs. These abnormal embryo sacs led to abnormal fertilization. Hand pollination using normal pollens on the spikelets during anthesis showed that normal pollens could not exclude the effect of abnormal embryo sac on seed setting.
19166490	Oryza meyeriana Baill (GG genome) is a precious germplasm in the tertiary gene pool of cultivated rice (AA genome), and possesses important traits such as resistance and tolerance to biotic and abiotic stress. However, interspecific crossability barrier, a critical bottleneck restricting genes transfer from O. meyeriana to cultivars has led to no hybrids through conventional reproduction. Therefore, the reasons underlying incrossability were investigated in the present report. The results showed that: (i) at 3-7 d after pollination (DAP), many hybrid embryos degenerated at the earlier globular-shaped stage, and could not develop into the later pear-shaped stage. Meanwhile, free endosperm nuclei started to degenerate at 1 DAP, and cellular endosperm could not form at 3 DAP, leading to nutrition starvation for young embryo development; (ii) at 11-13 DAP, almost all hybrid ovaries aborted. Even though 72.22% of hybrid young embryos were produced in the interspecific hybridization between O. sativa and O. meyeriana, young embryos were not able to further develop into hybrid plantlets via culturing in vitro. The main reason for the incrossability was hybrid embryo inviability, presenting as embryo development stagnation and degeneration since 3 DAP. Some possible approaches to overcome the crossability barriers in the interspecific hybridization between O. sativa and O. meyeriana are discussed.
19166493	To identify genetic loci controlling grain weight, an elite indica rice variety, Baodali, with large grains was identified and used in this study. Its derived F(2), F(3) and BC(2)F(2) with another japonica rice variety Zhonghua 11 were used as mapping populations. Linkage analyses demonstrated that two genes controlling grain weight, designated as GW3 and GW6, were mapped to chromosome 3 and chromosome 6, respectively. Fine mapping delimited GW3 to a 122 kb physical distance between two sequence tagged site markers (WGW16 and WGW19) containing 16 open reading frames annotated by The Institute for Genomic Research (http://www.tigr.org). GW6 was further mapped between two simple sequence repeat markers (RM7179 and RM3187). These results are useful for both marker assisted selection of grain weight, and for further cloning of GW genes, which will contribute to the dissection of the molecular mechanism underlying grain weight in rice.
19166495	Protein kinases play crucial roles in response to external environment stress signals. A putative protein kinase, W55a, belonging to SNF1-related protein kinase 2 (SnRK2) subfamily, was isolated from a cDNA library of drought-treated wheat seedlings. The entire length of W55a was obtained using rapid amplification of 5' cDNA ends (5'-RACE) and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction(RT-PCR). It contains a 1,029 -bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding 342 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of W55a had eleven conserved catalytic subdomains and one Ser/Thr protein kinase active-site that characterize Ser/Thr protein kinases. Phylogenetic analysis showed that W55a was 90.38% homologous with rice SAPK1, a member of the SnRK2 family. Using nullisomic-tetrasomic and ditelocentric lines of Chinese Spring, W55a was located on chromosome 2BS. Expression pattern analysis revealed that W55a was upregulated by drought and salt, exogenous abscisic acid, salicylic acid, ethylene and methyl jasmonate, but was not responsive to cold stress. In addition, W55a transcripts were abundant in leaves, but not in roots or stems, under environmental stresses. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing W55a exhibited higher tolerance to drought. Based on these findings, W55a encodes a novel dehydration-responsive protein kinase that is involved in multiple stress signal transductions.
19166498	In present study, Fe, Zn, Mn, Cu, Ca, Mg, P and K contents of 85 introgression lines (ILs) derived from a cross between an elite indica cultivar Teqing and the wild rice (Oryza rufipogon) were measured by inductively coupled argon plasma (ICAP) spectrometry. Substantial variation was observed for all traits and most of the mineral elements were significantly positive correlated or independent except for Fe with Cu. A total of 31 putative quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were detected for these eight mineral elements by single point analysis. Wild rice (O. rufipogon) contributed favorable alleles for most of the QTLs (26 QTLs), and chromosomes 1, 9 and 12 exhibited 14 QTLs (45%) for these traits. One major effect of QTL for zinc content accounted for the largest proportion of phenotypic variation (11%-19%) was detected near the simple sequence repeats marker RM152 on chromosome 8. The co-locations of QTLs for some mineral elements observed in this mapping population suggested the relationship was at a molecular level among these traits and could be helpful for simultaneous improvement of these traits in rice grain by marker assisted selection.
19166807	A sensitive and simple electrochemical immunosensor based on enzymatic silver deposition amplification was constructed for the detection of aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) in rice. The immunosensor was based on an indirect competitive format between free AFB(1) and aflatoxin B(1)-bovine serum albumin (AFB(1)-BSA) conjugate immobilized on the electrode surface for binding to a fixed amount of anti-AFB(1) antibody. Then the alkaline phosphatase (ALP)-labeled anti-mouse immunoglobulin G (IgG) secondary antibody was bound to the electrode surface through reaction with primary antibody. Finally, ALP catalyzed the substrate, ascorbic acid 2-phosphate, into ascorbic acid that reduced silver ions in solution to metal silver deposited onto the electrode surface. Linear sweep voltammetry was carried out to quantify the metal silver, which indirectly reflected the amount of the analyte. The experimental parameters, such as the dilution ratio of antibody and the concentration of AFB(1)-BSA conjugate, have been evaluated and optimized. At the optimal conditions, the working range of the electrochemical immunosensor was from 0.1 to 10 ng/ml with a detection limit of 0.06 ng/ml. Good recoveries were obtained for the detection of spiked rice samples. So, the proposed method in this article could find a good use for screening AFB(1) in real samples.
19166811	Transgenic plants have become attractive as bioreactors to produce heterologous proteins that can be developed as edible vaccines. In the present study, transgenic rice expressing the envelope protein (E) of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), under the control of a dual cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV 35S) promoter, was generated by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Southern blot, Northern blot, Western blot and ELISA analyses confirmed that the E gene was integrated into transgenic rice and was expressed in the leaves at levels of 1.1-1.9 microg/mg of total soluble protein. After intraperitoneal immunization of mice with crude protein extracts from transgenic rice plants, JEV-specific neutralizing antibody could be detected. Moreover, E-specific mucosal immune responses could be detected in mice after oral immunization with protein extracts from transgenic rice plants. These results show the potential of using a transgenic rice-based expression system as an alternative bioreactor for JEV subunit vaccine.
19166959	Digestive assimilation efficiency is considered a trait with important implications for animal ecology. However, practically all studies have ignored the importance of sex differences in food assimilation efficiency (AE). Here, we investigated sex differences in dietary and physiological parameters in the Black-tailed Godwit Limosa limosa limosa feeding on rice seeds, a species with sexual dimorphism in body size and body mass. Gross daily food intake, gross energy intake, gross energy output and metabolizable energy intake did not vary significantly between sexes, but godwit females showed lower faeces energy density and higher AE than males. Mass-specific AE was similar in males and females, and the difference in AE could be attributed to the females' greater body mass. We suggest that a differential AE could play a role in explaining sex differences in habitat or micro-habitat selection during the non-breeding season in bird species with sexual dimorphism in size. Finally, we addressed the question about assimilation efficiency accuracy in models that estimate prey acquisitions by declining shorebirds as the Black-tailed Godwit.
19167073	Polychlorinated biphenyls and methylmercury are two of the most ubiquitous environmental contaminants in Guizhou province. Rice is eaten with almost every meal and provides more calories than any single food in Guizhou province. The estimated tolerable daily intake of total mercury, MeHg, Se and PCBs from Guizhou contaminated rice by Chinese people showed that MeHg and/or PCBs exceeded the corresponding limits. The aim of this study was to characterize the effects of exposure to environmental contaminated rice on neurobehavioral development and neurobiological disruptions in mice. Animals were treated from postnatal day (PND) 22 to 91. At PND 26-91 days of age, mice were tested for neurobehavioural development and neurochemical level changes. We showed that dietary exposure to environmentally contaminated rice gave rise to different changes in antioxidants. Reduced superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and excess increased nitric oxide (NO) indicated aggravation of oxidative status after long-term dietary intake of Hg and PCBs. Neurobehavioral derangement in the central nervous system and significant delay in the Morris water maze test response on PND 91 are correlated with the increased of c-fos/c-jun expression levels in the cerebral cortex. These results suggest that MeHg neurotoxicity might be a greater hazard than that associated with PCB, but PCB may augment the neurobehavioral deficits caused by increased levels of mercury exposure. The simultaneous intake of selenium might have a protective effect on Hg accumulation in the body, and vitamin C might protect mice against the toxic effects of PCBs. However, the protective role of Se and vitamin C is very limited for multiple-agent pollution. Immediately early genes in the brain response to contaminated rice might be dependent on interaction among NO, NO synthase (NOS), SOD and reduced glutathione (GSH). We should be alert to mental health problems in human beings when any kind of Hg- and PCB-polluted food is consumed.
19167260	Plants form diverse symbioses with nitrogen-fixing bacteria to gain access to ammonium, a product of the prokaryote-exclusive enzyme nitrogenase. Improving the symbiotic effectiveness of crop plants like maize, wheat or rice is a highly topical challenge and could help reduce the need for energy-intense nitrogen fertilizer in staple food production. Root nodule symbiosis (RNS) constitutes one of the most productive nitrogen-fixing systems, but it is restricted to a small group of related angiosperms. Here, we review the genetic regulation of RNS and its interconnections with other plant symbiosis or plant developmental programs. Since RNS uses genetic programs that are widely conserved in land plants, we evaluate the prospects for a transfer to plants that are currently non-nodulating.
19167382	Twenty-two conserved miRNAs were chosen to investigate the expression pattern in response to phytohormone treatments, in which the effects of five classic plant hormone stresses were surveyed in Oryza sativa. The results showed that 11 miRNAs were found to be dysregulated by one or more phytohormone treatments. The target genes of these miRNAs were validated in vivo and their expression profiling were revealed. We also analyzed the promoter regions of the 22 conserved miRNAs for phytohormone-responsive elements and the existence of the elements provided further evidences supporting our results. These findings enable us to further investigate the role of miRNAs in phytohormone signaling.
19167778	To look into a possible involvement of plasma membrane H+ATPase (PM-H+ATPase, EC 3.6.3.6) in mitigation of physiological disturbances imposed by salt stress, response of the enzyme was studied in two Oryza sativa Indica cultivars, salt-tolerant Lunishri and non-tolerant Badami, and a natural halophyte Suaeda maritima after challenge of the young plants with NaCl. Significant increase in activity of the enzyme was observed in response to NaCl in all the test plants with S. maritima showing maximum increase. Protein blot analysis, however, did not show any increase in the amount of the enzyme (protein). RNA blot analysis, on the other hand, revealed significant increase in transcript level of the enzyme upon NaCl treatment. In the rice cultivars, salt treatment also induced expression of a new isoform of PM-H+ATPase gene, not reported so far. The induced transcript showed maximum homology to OSA7 (O. sativa PM-H+ATPase isoform 7). Similar transcript message, however, remained constitutively present in S. maritima, along with the transcript of another isoform of PM-H+ATPase showing resemblance to OSA3 (O. sativa PM-H+ATPase isoform 3). The latter was the only PM-H+ATPase isoform expressed in both the rice cultivars not exposed to NaCl. In the salt-treated test plants, both rice and S. maritima, the salt-inducible PM-H+ATPase isoform resembling OSA7 was expressed in much greater amount than that resembling OSA3. Appearance of a new PM-H+ATPase transcript, besides increase in the enzyme activity, indicates the important role of the enzyme in maintaining ion-homeostasis in plants under salt stress, enabling them to survive under saline conditions.
19168038	Hydrogen gas (H(2)) has been shown to ameliorate brain injury in experimental adult rat focal ischemia and in a mild neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI, 90 min hypoxia) rat model. In this study we tested H(2) in moderate (120 min hypoxia) and severe (150 min hypoxia) neonatal HI rat models. We hypothesized that H(2) would improve outcomes after neonatal HI by scavenging free radicals. Two hundred (200) unsexed Sprague-Dawley rats at day 10 of life (p10) underwent neonatal HI with the Rice-Vannucci model. Multiple treatment protocols were studied, including pre-ischemic treatment, intra-ischemic treatment, and post-ischemic treatment (Sham n=32, HI n=82, HI+H(2)n=86). We also tested H(2) in middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in adult rats (MCAO n=9, MCAO+H(2)n=7) for comparison. Analysis at 24 h included infarction volume, measurement of brain concentration of malondialdehyde (MDA) (an end-product of lipid peroxidation), daily weight, Nissl histology, and mortality. In moderate and severe neonatal HI models, hydrogen gas therapy (2.9% concentration H(2)) was not associated with decreased volume of infarction or decreased concentration of MDA. H(2) gas pretreatment (2.9%) was associated with increased infarction volume in neonatal HI. In MCAO in adult rats, H(2) gas therapy demonstrated a trend of beneficial effect. Exposure of H(2) gas to non-ischemic neonates resulted in a significant increase in brain concentration of MDA. We conclude that 2.9% H(2) gas therapy does not ameliorate moderate to severe ischemic damage in neonatal hypoxia-ischemia.
19168087	Subjects exposed to arsenic show significant inter-individual variation in urinary patterns of arsenic metabolites but insignificant day-to-day intra-individual variation. The inter-individual variation in arsenic methylation can be partly responsible for the variation in susceptibility to arsenic toxicity. Wide inter-ethnic variation and family correlation in urinary arsenic profile suggest a genetic effect on arsenic metabolism. In this paper the environmental factors affecting arsenic metabolism are reviewed. Methylation capacity might reduce with increasing dosage of arsenic exposure. Furthermore, women, especially at pregnancy, have better methylation capacity than their men counterparts, probably due to the effect of estrogen. Children might have better methylation capacity than adults and age shows inconsistent relevance in adults. Smoking and alcohol consumption might be associated with a poorer methylation capacity. Nutritional status is important in the methylation capacity and folate may facilitate the methylation and excretion of arsenic. Besides, general health conditions and medications might influence the arsenic methylation capacity; and technical problems can cause biased estimates. The consumption of seafood, seaweed, rice and other food with high arsenic contents and the extent of cooking and arsenic-containing water used in food preparation may also interfere with the presentation of the urinary arsenic profile. Future studies are necessary to clarify the effects of the various arsenic metabolites including the trivalent methylated forms on the development of arsenic-induced human diseases with the consideration of the effects of confounding factors and the interactions with other effect modifiers.
19168644	Five barley (Hordeum vulgare) PEBP (for phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein) genes were analyzed to clarify their functional roles in flowering using transgenic, expression, and quantitative trait locus analyses. Introduction of HvTFL1 and HvMFT1 into rice (Oryza sativa) plants did not result in any changes in flowering, suggesting that these two genes have functions distinct from flowering. Overexpression of HvFT1, HvFT2, and HvFT3 in rice resulted in early heading, indicating that these FT-like genes can act as promoters of the floral transition. HvFT1 transgenic plants showed the most robust flowering initiation. In barley, HvFT1 was expressed at the time of shoot meristem phase transition. These results suggest that HvFT1 is the key gene responsible for flowering in the barley FT-like gene family. HvFT2 transgenic plants also showed robust flowering initiation, but HvFT2 was expressed only under short-day (SD) conditions during the phase transition, suggesting that its role is limited to specific photoperiodic conditions in barley. Flowering activity in HvFT3 transgenic rice was not as strong and was modulated by the photoperiod. These results suggest that HvFT3 functions in flowering promotion but that its effect is indirect. HvFT3 expression was observed in Morex, a barley cultivar carrying a dominant allele of Ppd-H2, a major quantitative trait locus for flowering under SD conditions, although no expression was detected in Steptoe, a cultivar carrying ppd-H2. HvFT3 was expressed in Morex under both long-day and SD conditions, although its expression was increased under SD conditions. HvFT3 was mapped to chromosome 1HL, the same chromosome that carries Ppd-H2. Genomic sequence analyses revealed that Morex possesses an intact HvFT3 gene, whereas most of this gene has been lost in Steptoe. These data strongly suggest that HvFT3 may be identical to Ppd-H2.
19168991	The level and pattern of nucleotide variation in the SUPERWOMAN1(SPW1) locus of the wild rice Oriza rufipogon and its related species were analyzed. SPW1 is orthologous to APETELA3(AP3) in Arabidopsis thaliana. The estimated level of nucleotide variation for the entire region (pi = 0.0046) was intermediate among those for other genes of O. rufipogon, although the estimates varied considerably among the SPW1 domains. Complicated haplotype structure was detected, resulting in a high proportion of significant linkage disequilibrium. Deviation from the neutrality was not detected. However, purifying selection was suggested by lack of replacement variation in the MADS-box and I-domain regions, which function as DNA-binding domain. On the other hand, an excess of drastic amino acid changes was detected in the C-domain, as in the AP3 region of A. thaliana. Taken together, these results imply that different types of natural selection are acting among different domains of a single protein. In the phylogenetic tree, O. sativa strains were included in the same cluster of O. rufipogon, supporting the hypothesis that O. rufipogon is the wild ancestor of O. sativa.
19169201	Squalene is a triterpene that is an intermediate in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. It was so named because of its occurrence in shark liver oil, which contains large quantities and is considered its richest source. However, it is widely distributed in nature, with reasonable amounts found in olive oil, palm oil, wheat-germ oil, amaranth oil, and rice bran oil. Squalene, the main component of skin surface polyunsaturated lipids, shows some advantages for the skin as an emollient and antioxidant, and for hydration and its antitumor activities. It is also used as a material in topically applied vehicles such as lipid emulsions and nanostructured lipid carriers (NLCs). Substances related to squalene, including beta-carotene, coenzyme Q10 (ubiquinone) and vitamins A, E, and K, are also included in this review article to introduce their benefits to skin physiology. We summarize investigations performed in previous reports from both in vitro and in vivo models.
19169711	RNA editing in mitochondria and chloroplasts of land plants alters the coding content of transcripts through site-specific exchanges of cytidines into uridines and vice versa. The abundance of RNA editing in model plant species such as rice or Arabidopsis with some 500 affected sites in their organelle transcripts hinders straightforward approaches to elucidate its mechanisms. The moss Physcomitrella patens is increasingly being appreciated as an alternative plant model system, enhanced by the recent availability of its complete chloroplast, mitochondrial, and nuclear genome sequences. We here report the transcriptomic analysis of Physcomitrella mitochondrial mRNAs as a prerequisite for future studies of mitochondrial RNA editing in this moss. We find a strikingly low frequency of RNA editing affecting only eleven, albeit highly important, sites of C-to-U nucleotide modification in only nine mitochondrial genes. Partial editing was seen for two of these sites but no evidence for any silent editing sites (leaving the identity of the encoded amino acid unchanged) as commonly observed in vascular plants was found in Physcomitrella, indicating a compact and efficient organization of the editing machinery. Furthermore, we here wish to propose a unifying nomenclature to clearly identify and designate RNA editing positions and to facilitate future communication and database annotation.
19169946	The glycaemic response to nine types of rice (white basmati, brown basmati, white and brown basmati, easy-cook basmati, basmati and wild rice, long-grain rice, easy-cook long-grain rice, Thai red rice, Thai glutinous rice) and two types of rice vermicelli (Guilin rice vermicelli, Jiangxi rice vermicelli) commercially available in the United Kingdom were compared against a glucose standard in a non-blind, randomized, repeated-measure, crossover design trial. Fourteen healthy subjects (six males, eight females), mean age 38 (standard deviation 16) years and mean body mass index 21.3 (standard deviation 2.3) kg/m(2), were recruited for the study. Subjects were served portions of the test foods and a standard food (glucose), on separate occasions, each containing 50 g available carbohydrates. Capillary blood glucose was measured from finger-prick samples in fasted subjects (-5 and 0 min) and at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 min after the consumption of each test food. For each type of food, its glycaemic index (GI) was calculated geometrically by expressing the incremental area under the blood glucose curve as a percentage of each subject's average incremental area under the blood glucose curve for the standard food. The 10 foods exhibited a range of GI values from 37 to 92. The study indicated that rice noodles, long-grain rice, easy-cook long-grain rice and white basmati rice were low-GI foods, whilst all of the other foods were medium-GI and high-GI foods. The information presented in this paper may be useful in helping people select low-GI foods from the customary foods consumed by the British and Asian populations.
19169964	The mosquito-borne Japanese encephalitis (JE) virus is the major etiological agent of viral encephalitis in children living in South-East Asia, causing comas, seizures and Parkinson's disease-like movement disorders. Travelers and military personnel visiting the region are also highly susceptible to the disease. As the population in South-East Asia increases, more land is irrigated to produce rice paddies (the ideal breeding habitat for mosquitoes), and pig breeding (a zoonotic host for mosquitoes) becomes more widespread. Given the exponential growth in tourism to the region and the globalization of business and commerce, an enhanced requirement for mass vaccination exists. In the West, the current licensed vaccine against JE, JE-VAX, has been highly effective; however, the use of mouse brain-derived virus has been linked to cases of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis. Intercell AG, under license from VaccGen International LLC, is developing IC-51, a formalin-inactivated vaccine derived from cell culture-based attenuated virus that has been adapted to grow in Vero cells (African green monkey kidney cells). In extensive clinical trials performed to date, IC-51 was safe, with mild to moderate adverse events reported. In terms of immunogenicity, IC-51 was highly effective, demonstrating rapid seroconversion rates and long-term maintenance of geometric mean titers that exceeded the protective titer. The results suggests that IC-51 is fully compliant with the stringent regulatory requirements set by the WHO, has an acceptable safety profile and is non-inferior to JE-VAX.
19170042	Carbendazim has been the major fungicide for control of Fusarium head blight (FHB) caused by Fusarium graminearum Schwade in China. However, the effectiveness of carbendazim has been threatened by the emergence of resistant pathogen populations in the field. Five isolates, representing three phenotypes of different carbendazim sensitivity levels (S, MR and HR), were randomly selected to study the inheritance of carbendazim resistance by three genetic crosses under field conditions. Each parent in all crosses was marked with a different class of nitrate non-utilizing (nit) mutation. The presence of sexual recombinants indicated that outcrossing had occurred in the crosses. Over 100 putative self-crossing or outcrossing perithecia for each cross were randomly sampled on the surface of the haulms of dead rice for each pair of parents. Results showed that 5.7-20.9% outcrossing frequency occurred in the three crosses and confirmed sexual recombination under field conditions. There were no significant differences in mycelial linear growth and pathogenicity between the selected recombinants and their parents, but they differed in sporulation ability and capacity to produce perithecia. Nevertheless, most of the sexual recombinants possessed fitness levels comparable with those of their parents. Outcrossing between carbendazim-sensitive and -resistant isolates did occur under field conditions, and sexual recombination must play a role in the development of carbendazim resistance in the field.
1917006	A lung function study was carried out to determine the relative effect of rice husk and saw dust on mill workers. The study consisted of 195 subjects of which 56 rice mill workers, 71 saw mill workers and 68 controls of similar age, sex and socio-economic condition. FVC was significantly reduced in saw-mill workers compared to both the controls and rice mill workers. Both FEV1 and PEFR/min were significantly reduced in both mill workers compared to controls. The fall in PEFR/min in saw mill workers was also significant when compared to rice mill workers. FVC was reduced after 5 years of exposure only in saw mill workers. FEV1 was reduced within a year which was further reduced after 5 years in both mill workers. PEFR/min was highly reduced within a year remained so even after 5 years.
19172237	An indigenous Bacillus subtilis strain isolated from soil was found to be a potent milk-clotting protease (mcp) producer. Production optimized using response surface methodology (RSM) yielded 1,190 U/ml of enzyme in medium containing 6% fructose, 1% casein, 0.3% NH4NO3, 10 mM CaCl2, pH 6.0 and inoculated with 3% inoculum and incubated at 250 rpm for 72 h. Solid-state fermentation resulted in 1,080 and 952.3 U/gds of milk-clotting protease using soybean meal and rice bran, respectively, with higher proteolytic values of 18.97 and 9.1 IU/gds. Production in a biphasic system using an overlay of RSM-optimized medium on solid layer of 6% fructose and 1% casein with 1.5% agar resulted in significant enzyme production. Maximum mcp was obtained using a biphasic system where solid: liquid ratio of 3.0 resulted in a final yield of 1,276.65 U/ml with a yield index of 1.80 as compared to static liquid culture. However, significant increase or difference was noted as compared to yield obtained after RSM. This is the first report on the use of RSM for production of mcp from a bacterial species.
19172402	The accurate assessment of dietary intake patterns is important for the determination of total dietary arsenic (As) exposure in As-contaminated regions of Bangladesh. Food intake questionnaires are a common means of assessing food intake. A food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) was designed to assess the daily intake of frequently consumed food items and was successfully implemented to assess dietary patterns and intake of the rural populations in 18 villages from three Districts of Bangladesh (Comilla, Manikganj Sadar, and Munshiganj). The FFQ presented in this paper comprises a complete set of tools which allowed not only collection of information on dietary patterns but also information on the spatial characteristics of the landscape, socio-demographic indicators, and geographic locations of the identified environmental media of the contaminants, which resulted in As exposure to humans. The FFQ was designed in three sections: (1) general household information, (2) household water and rice information, and (3) individual dietary intake of other foods. The dietary intake of other food was then further subdivided into five different food subgroups: (i) grain intake, (ii) protein intake, (iii) fruit intake (iv), vegetable intake, and (v) dal (pulse) intake. During the design and development of the FFQ, emphasis was given to the source of food, the frequency (day/week/month) of consumption, and the daily amount of food consumed by each adult male, adult female, and child to accurately determine the dietary pattern and intake of arsenic in the rural population of Bangladesh.
19173879	To understand the situation of diarrhea cases treatment modules in the areas and to provide reference data for setting up national strategies for treatment and control of diarrhea diseases. Using the method of multistage and cluster random sampling, we selected twelve counties/cities and 60 streets communities/villages from Guangdong, Henan and Gansu provinces that representing three kinds of economic development. According to the definition of diarrhea case published by World Health Organization, we conducted a four-time investigation at the community level in four different seasons. The overall incidence of diarrhea within two weeks was 0.79% (95%CI: 0.74% - 0.84%) in the residents from twelve counties/districts in Guangdong, Henan and Gansu. The incidence rate within two weeks under the 5 years old was 2.30% (95%CI: 1.96% - 2.67%), obviously higher than the incidence rates seen in other age groups. The average percentage of visiting a doctor seeking for help on diarrhea within the two weeks was 55.89% for the three provinces. The highest percentage was 79.88% in the age group under 5 years old. 35.38% of the patients with diarrhea in urban area went to the community or street clinics for treatment, but 75.04% of the diarrhea cases in rural areas went to see village or private rural doctors. Factors influencing the behaviors of visiting a doctor seeking for help were found by logistic Regression method. It was found that factors as: when diarrhea cases with voluminous or soft-rice like watery stools or with dark blood stools; when a patient was with fever, more episodes per day or with longer duration, the patients would turn more to the doctors for help. Diarrhea cases from the rural areas would see doctors more often than the cases from the urban areas. People having had partial 'new rural medical insurance' would see doctors more often than those without medical insurance. We studied the modules of diarrhea case treatment between the urban and rural area in Guangdong, Henan and Gansu provinces and found that the percentages of visiting a doctor for diarrhea treatment in the rural areas was higher than that in the urban areas. Both residents at all age and under 5 years old, the percentage of visiting a doctor for diarrhea treatment showed a sharp increase in the last two decades.
19175452	Experiments were conducted to determine the effects of feeding different starch sources on piglets. Four diets were formulated with maize, brown rice, sticky rice and Hi-Maize 1043 as starch sources, with resistant starch (RS) contents of 2.3%, 0.9%, 0.0%, 20.6%, and amylose and amylopectin ratio of 0.23%, 0.21%, 0.18%, 0.06% respectively. Fifty-six pigs weaned at 28 days of age were randomly assigned to one of the four diets. In Exp. 1, six piglets in each group were fitted with an indwelling jugular catheter. After 25 days of feeding trial, venous blood samples were obtained at time zero and every 1 h for 4 h. In Exp. 2, the remaining piglets were used to determine the effects of different starch sources on the fractional synthesis rate (FSR). The results indicated that feeding the Hi-Maize 1043 diet decreased (p < 0.05) plasma contents of glucose, insulin, lactic acid and T(3), while sticky rice increased plasma contents of glucose and insulin. The insulin contents in piglets fed the sticky rice diet was 69.2 microIU/ml at 1 h post-feeding which was highest among the starch diets. The FSR in the pancreas, spleen, duodenum, jejunum, ileum and colon in the corn group were much higher (p < 0.05) than that in the sticky rice group. These results suggest that RS is potentially beneficial for improving insulin sensitivity in young pigs and that the ratio of amylose and amylopectin have significantly effects on the FSR in splanchnic tissues in weaned piglets. Another finding of this study indicated maize with a ratio of amylose and amylopectin of 0.23 has the best starch sources for pig production.
19175520	Advances in the genetic transformation of cereals have improved the prospects of using biotechnology for plant improvement, and a toolbox of promoters with defined specificities would be a valuable resource in controlling the expression of transgenes in desired tissues for both plant improvement and molecular farming. A number of promoters have been isolated from the important cereals (wheat, barley, rice and maize), and these promoters have been tested mostly in homologous cereal systems and, to a lesser extent, in heterologous cereal systems. The use of these promoters across the important cereals would add value to the utility of each promoter. In addition, promoters with less sequence homology, but with similar specificities, will be crucial in avoiding homology-based gene silencing when expressing more than one transgene in the same tissue. We have tested wheat and barley promoters in transgenic barley and wheat to determine whether their specificity is shared across these two species. The barley bifunctional alpha-amylase/subtilisin inhibitor (Isa) promoter, specific to the pericarp in barley, failed to show any activity in wheat, whereas the wheat early-maturing (Em) promoter showed similar activity in wheat and barley. The wheat high-molecular-weight glutenin (HMW-Glu) and barley D-hordein (D-Hor) and B-hordein (B-Hor) storage protein promoters maintained endosperm-specific expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in wheat and barley, respectively. Using gfp, we have demonstrated that the Isa and Em promoters can be used as strong promoters to direct transgenes in specific tissues of barley and wheat grain. Differential promoter activity across cereals expands and adds value to a promoter toolbox for utility in plant biotechnology.
19175766	The Arabidopsis transcription factor CRABS CLAW (CRC) is a major determinant of carpel growth and fusion, and, in concert with other redundantly acting genes, of floral meristem termination. Its rice ortholog, however, has additional functions in specifying carpel organ identity. We were interested in understanding the history of gene function modulation of CRC-like genes during angiosperm evolution. Here, we report the identification and functional characterization of EcCRC, the Californica poppy (Eschscholzia californica) CRC ortholog. The downregulation of EcCRC by virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) produces additional organ whorls that develop exclusively into gynoecia, resulting in a reiteration of the fourth whorl. Additionally, defects in carpel polarity and ovule initiation are apparent, and the observed phenotype is restricted to the gynoecium. Our results further show that the history of CRC-like genes during angiosperm evolution is characterized by gains of function, independent of duplication processes in this gene subfamily. Moreover, our data indicate that the ancestral angiosperm CRC-like gene was involved in floral meristem termination and the promotion of abaxial cell fate in the gynoecium, and that in the lineage leading to Arabidopsis, additional genes have been recruited to adopt some of these functions, resulting in a high degree of redundancy.
1917809	A rapid method for the determination of chlorine, phosphorus, and sulfur in commercial flours of wheat, barley, maize, rice, field bean, and soybean by wavelength dispersive x-ray fluorescence spectrometry has been developed. The flours are strained through a 425 microns sieve, then pelletized and measured. The total analysis time for the quantitation of chlorine, phosphorus, and sulfur is less than 20 min per sample. Calibration is carried out using a standard additions method with mixed standards. The method is accurate and precise, and appears to be adequate for routine analyses.
1917812	The present paper describes an enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) used in combination with thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and liquid chromatography (LC) for determination of fusarochromanone (TDP) mycotoxins in barley, wheat, and a Fusarium culture grown in rice and corn. The mycotoxins were first extracted from the sample with 100% methanol and subjected to TLC or LC without additional cleanup treatment. Individual fractions eluted from TLC or LC were acetylated, then analyzed by ELISA. Determinations of TDP toxins at levels as low as 0.1 and 0.5 ng were achieved by ELISA in combination with LC and TLC, respectively. The detection limit for TDP-1 in barley and wheat was about 20 ppb by ELISA alone as compared with a detection limit of 5 ppb by a combination of ELISA with either TLC or LC. Overall analytical recovery (% of added) of TDP-1 added to barley and wheat at 5, 10, and 20 ppb of TDP-1 was 106.9 +/- 15.3 and 113.2 +/- 11.6 by LC-ELISA and 108.8 +/- 9.1 and 110.4 +/- 4.9 by TLC-ELISA, respectively. Analysis of extracts obtained from Fusarium equiseti R6137 grown in corn and rice by the combination of TLC and ELISA revealed that diacetyl-TDP was also produced by this fungus in addition to TDP-1 and TDP-2. Comparable results were obtained when fungal extracts were subjected to ELISA, LC, and immunochromatography (i.e., combination of ELISA with either TLC or LC).
19178688	Gene trapping is a powerful tool for gene discovery and functional genomics in both animals and plants. Upon insertion of the gene trap construct into an expressed gene, splice donor and acceptor sites facilitate the generation of transcriptional fusions between the flanking sequence and the reporter. Consequently, detection of reporter gene expression allows the identification of genes based on their expression pattern. Up to now rice is the only cereal crop for which gene trap approaches exist. In this study we describe a gene trap system in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) based on the maize transposable elements Ac/Ds. We generated gene trap barley lines by crossing Ac transposase expressing plants with multiple independent transformants carrying the Ds based gene trap construct GTDsB. Upstream of the beta-Glucuronidase start codon GTDsB carries splice donor and acceptor sites optimized for monocotyledonous plants. DNA blot analysis revealed GTDsB transposition frequencies of 11% and 26% in the F1 and F2 generation of gene trap lines and perpetuation of transposition activity in later generations. Furthermore, analysis of sequences flanking transposed GTDsB elements evidenced preferential insertion into expressed regions of the barley genome. We screened leaves, nodes, immature florets, pollinated florets, immature grains and seedlings of F2 plants and detected GUS expression in 51% (72/141) of the plants. Thus, reporter gene expression was found in 24 of the 28 F1 lines tested and in progeny of all GTDsB parental lines. Due to the frequent transposition of GTDsB and the efficient expression of the GUS reporter gene, we conclude that this Ac/Ds-based gene trap system is an applicable approach for gene discovery in barley. The successful introduction of a gene trap construct optimized for monocots in barley contributes a novel functional genomics tool for this cereal crop.
19178789	Non-obese individuals limit energy intake and maintain weight long-term. Knowledge of the mechanism they use to accomplish this could help in weight maintenance after weight loss and prevention of unneeded weight gain. The objective of the present study was to determine whether non-obese women use orosensory cues to limit short-term intake of high-energy density foods. Forty non-obese women consumed two high-energy rice puddings of equal energy density, one with high sugar and one with high fat. There were four study conditions. Participants ate until satisfied (basal), satisfied based on taste (taste), satisfied based on fullness (fullness) and while watching television (distraction). The participants were asked to refrain from eating and drinking after 2200. The treatments were done between 0830 and 0900. The order of treatments was randomized and all subjects completed all treatments. The quantity consumed and variation in hunger and taste intensity were the primary measures. Results were subjected to within subjects analysis of variance (ANOVA). Intake was significantly greater in the high-fat groups than in the high-carbohydrate groups (P = 0.0001). Study condition had a significant effect on intake (P = 0.0000) with the taste condition generally resulting in the lowest intake. Hunger intensity significantly decreased after meal intake (P = 0.0156). There was a significant effect of condition (P = 0.0001) with base and taste conditions showing the greatest decrease. In the taste condition, specifically, the intensity of taste and hunger declined after intake (P = 0.0000). These results indicate that taste satisfaction can limit meal intake in non-obese women. Taste satisfaction could be a mechanism that is used to reduce food intake to compensate for previous excess consumption.
19179349	Protease inhibitors have been reported to confer insect resistance in transgenic plants, except for a rice protease inhibitor that conferred drought tolerance in transgenic rice plants. We have cloned a protease inhibitor of tobacco that is expressed under treatment with ABA, hydrogen peroxide, methyl jasmonate and wounding. The cDNA codes for a six-domain serine protease inhibitor with a deduced sequence of 396 amino acids. We have generated transgenic tobacco plants expressing the protease inhibitor constitutively under the 35S promoter. When analyzed in the T(2) generation, these transgenic plants exhibited tolerance to sodium chloride, variable pH and sorbitol, together with the expected resistance to the insect pests Spodoptera litura and Helicoverpa armigera. The transgenic plants showed enhanced seed germination, root length and root-shoot ratio, significantly enhanced total chlorophyll content and reduced thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances under stress. Under sodium chloride treatment, the transgenic plants have enhanced protease inhibitor activity. The transgenic plants exhibited a higher potassium content and an optimum Na+/K+ ratio. To our knowledge, this is the first report of transgenic plants with constitutive protease inhibitor expression showing tolerance to a wide range variable pH in the culture medium along with other stresses.
19179350	Hd3a and FT proteins have recently been proposed to act as florigens in rice and Arabidopsis, respectively; however, the molecular mechanisms of their function remain to be determined. In this study, we identified GF14c (a 14-3-3 protein) as an Hd3a-interacting protein in a yeast two-hybrid screen. In vitro and in vivo experiments, using a combination of pull-down assays and bimolecular fluorescence complementation, confirmed the interaction between Hd3a and GF14c. Functional analysis using either GF14c overexpression or knockout transgenic rice plants indicated that this interaction plays a role in the regulation of flowering. GF14c-overexpressing plants exhibited a delay in flowering and the knockout mutants displayed early flowering relative to the wild-type plants under short-day conditions. These results suggest that GF14c acts as a negative regulator of flowering by interacting with Hd3a. Since the 14-3-3 protein has been shown to interact with FT protein in tomato and Arabidopsis, our results in rice provide important findings about FT signaling in plants.
19180770
19181061	Two separate but related studies were conducted regarding management of Anopheles quadrimaculatus larval populations in commercial rice fields near Cleveland, MS, in 2004. Study 1 was to evaluate the effectiveness of 2 treatments of aerially applied ultra-low volume applications of Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (Bti) against An. quadrimaculatus larvae in dense, high-canopy mid- to late-season rice crop. Study 2 was to investigate the effect of preflood treatments of lambda-cyhalothrin (Karate), which is commonly used against rice water weevil (Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus), on An. quadrimaculatus larvae. Excellent initial, but short residual control (>99% control 1 day after treatment) was observed in the Bti-treated fields in both mid- and late-season rice. Little or no effect on mosquito larvae was observed in the lambda-cyhalothrin-treated fields. Results indicate that Bti can be effectively used by mosquito management personnel to control larval populations of An. quadrimaculatus in late-season rice fields; however, lambda-cyhalothrin did not effectively control larval An. quadrimaculatus when applied preflood to rice fields.
19181805	Conjugation, mobilization, and retromobilization are three related mechanisms of horizontal gene transfer in bacteria. They have been extensively studied in gram-negative species, where retromobilization, the capture of DNA from a recipient by a donor cell, was shown to result from two successive steps: the transfer of the conjugative plasmid from the donor to the recipient followed by the retrotransfer of the mobilizable plasmid to the donor. This successive model was established for gram-negative bacteria but was lacking experimental data from the gram-positive counterparts. In the present work, the mobilization and retromobilization abilities of the conjugative plasmid pXO16 from Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis were studied using the mobilizable plasmids pUB110 and pE194 and the "nonmobilizable" element pC194 lacking the mob and oriT features (all from Staphylococcus aureus). Experimental data suggested a successive model, since different retromobilization frequencies were observed between the small plasmids. More importantly, retromobilization was shown to be delayed by 50 and 150 min for pUB110 and pE194, respectively, compared to pXO16 conjugation. Natural liquid foods (cow milk, soy milk, and rice milk) were used to evaluate the putative ecological impact of these transfers. In cow and soy milk, conjugation, mobilization, and retromobilization were shown to occur at frequencies of 8.0 x 10(-1), 1.0 x 10(-2), and 1.2 x 10(-4) transconjugants per recipient, respectively. These data are comparable to those obtained with LB medium and about 10-fold lower than in the case of rice milk. Taken together, these results emphasize the potential role of plasmid capture played by B. thuringiensis in natural environments.
19181864	While most dicot plants produce little ethylene in their vegetative stage, many monocots such as rice liberate a relatively large amount of ethylene with cyanide as a co-product in their seedling stage when etiolated. One of the known functions of beta-cyanoalanine synthase (CAS) is to detoxify the co-product cyanide during ethylene biosynthesis in higher plants. Based on a tryptic peptide sequence obtained from a partially purified CAS activity protein preparation in etiolated rice seedlings, the full-length putative rice CAS-encoding cDNA sequence (OsCAS), which is homologous to those O-acetylserine sulphydrylase (OASS) genes, was cloned. Unlike most of the CAS genes reported from dicots, the transcription of OsCAS is promoted by auxins but suppressed by ethylene. To address the function and the subcellular localization of this gene product in planta, a binary vector construct consisting of this gene appended with a yellow fluorescent protein-encoding sequence was employed to transform Arabidopsis. Specific activities on CAS and OASS of the purified recombinant protein from transgenic Arabidopsis were 181.04 micromol H(2)S mg(-1) protein min(-1) and 0.92 micromol Cys mg(-1) protein min(-1), respectively, indicating that OsCAS favours CAS activity. The subcellular localization of OsCAS was found mostly in the mitochondria by immunogold electron-microscopy. Chemical cross-linking and in-gel assay on a heterodimer composed of functional and non-functional mutants in a yeast expression system on OsCAS suggested that OsCAS functions as a homodimer, similar to that of OASS. Despite the structural similarity of OsCAS with OASS, it has also been confirmed that OsCAS could not interact with serine-acetyltransferase, indicating that OsCAS mainly functions in cyanide detoxification.
19181865	In most plants, sucrose is exported from source leaves to carbon-importing sink tissues to sustain their growth and metabolism. Apoplastic phloem-loading species require sucrose transporters (SUTs) to transport sucrose into the phloem. In many dicot plants, genetic and biochemical evidence has established that SUT1-type proteins function in phloem loading. However, the role of SUT1 in phloem loading in monocot plants is not clear since the rice (Oryza sativa) and sugarcane (Saccharum hybrid) SUT1 orthologues do not appear to function in phloem loading of sucrose. A SUT1 gene was previously cloned from maize (Zea mays) and shown to have expression and biochemical activity consistent with a hypothesized role in phloem loading. To determine the biological function of SUT1 in maize, a sut1 mutant was isolated and characterized. sut1 mutant plants hyperaccumulate carbohydrates in mature leaves and display leaf chlorosis with premature senescence. In addition, sut1 mutants have greatly reduced stature, altered biomass partitioning, delayed flowering, and stunted tassel development. Cold-girdling wild-type leaves to block phloem transport phenocopied the sut1 mutants, supporting a role for maize SUT1 in sucrose export. Furthermore, application of (14)C-sucrose to abraded sut1 mutant and wild-type leaves showed that sucrose export was greatly diminished in sut1 mutants compared with wild type. Collectively, these data demonstrate that SUT1 is crucial for efficient phloem loading of sucrose in maize leaves.
19182328	The effect of rice-cooking water to the daily arsenic intake of Bangladeshi people was investigated. At the first field survey, uncooked rice and cooked rice of 29 families were collected. Their arsenic concentrations were 0.22+/-0.11 and 0.26+/-0.15 mg/kg dry wt, respectively. In 15 families, arsenic concentration in rice increased after cooking. Good correlation (R(2)=0.89) was observed between arsenic in rice-cooking water and the difference of arsenic concentration in rice by cooking. In the second survey, we collected one-day duplicated food of 18 families. As a result, we estimated that six of 18 families likely used the arsenic contaminated water for cooking rice even they drank less arsenic-contaminated water for drinking purpose. We also conducted rice-cooking experiments in the laboratory, changing arsenic concentration in rice-cooking water. Clear linear relationships were obtained between the arsenic in rice-cooking water and the difference of arsenic concentration in rice by cooking. Factors that affect arsenic concentration in cooked rice are suggested as follows: (1) arsenic concentration in uncooked rice, (2) that in rice-cooking water, (3) difference in water content of rice before and after cooking, and (4) types of rice, especially, the difference between parboiled and non-parboiled rice.
19183297	As ribulose 1.5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) activity limits light-saturated photosynthesis under present atmospheric condition, the effects of an overexpression of RBCSon Rubisco content and photosynthesis were examined in the leaves at different positions in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Rubisco content in the transformant was significantly greater in the uppermost, fully expanded leaves but decreased to levels similar to those in wild-type plants in the lower leaves. The mRNA levels of total RBCS and rbcL in these leaves were much less than those in the expanding leaves, where Rubisco synthesis is active, suggesting commensurately low level of synthesis. Although the activation state of Rubisco was lower in the uppermost, fully expanded leaves of the transformant, it recovered to its full level in the lower leaves. As a result, the photosynthetic rate did not differ in leaves at the same position between the transformant and the wild type. Similarly, whole plant biomass did not differ between these genotypes. Thus, we conclude that although the overexpression of RBCS led to an enhancement of Rubisco protein content in the uppermost, fully expanded leaves, it does not result in increased photosynthetic rates or plant biomass, because of an apparent down-regulation in its activation state.
19183299	Uptake and translocation of micronutrients are essential for plant growth. These micronutrients are also important food components. We generated transgenic rice plants over-expressing OsIRT1 to evaluate its functional roles in metal homeostasis. Those plants showed enhanced tolerance to iron deficiency at the seedling stage. In paddy fields, this over-expression caused plant architecture to be altered. In addition, those plants were sensitive to excess Zn and Cd, indicating that OsIRT1 also transports those metals. As expected, iron and zinc contents were elevated in the shoots, roots and mature seeds of over-expressing plants. This demonstrates that OsIRT1 can be used for enhancing micronutrient levels in rice grains.
19183860	Eyespot is a fungal disease of the stem base of cereal crops and causes lodging and the premature ripening of grain. Wheat cultivar Cappelle Desprez contains a highly durable eyespot resistance gene, Pch2 on the long arm of chromosome 7A. A cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) platform was used to identify genes differentially expressed between the eyespot susceptible variety Chinese Spring (CS) and the CS chromosome substitution line Cappelle Desprez 7A (CS/CD7A) which contains Pch2. Induced and constitutive gene expression was examined to compare differences between non-infected and plants infected with Oculimacula acuformis. Only 34 of approximately 4,700 cDNA-AFLP fragments were differentially expressed between CS and CS/CD7A. Clones were obtained for 29 fragments, of which four had homology to proteins involved with plant defence responses. Fourteen clones mapped to chromosome 7A and three of these mapped in the region of Pch2 making them putative candidates for involvement in eyespot resistance. Of particular importance are two fragments; 4CD7A8 and 19CD7A4, which have homology to an Oryza sativa putative callose synthase protein and a putative cereal cyst nematode NBS-LRR disease resistance protein (RCCN) respectively. Differential expression associated with Pch2 was examined by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Of those genes tested, only four were differentially expressed at 14 days post inoculation. We therefore suggest that a majority of the differences in the cDNA-AFLP profiles are due to allelic polymorphisms between CS and CD alleles rather than differences in expression.
19184094	The plant photoreceptor phytochrome is organised in a small gene family with phytochrome A (phyA) being unique, because it is specifically degraded upon activation by light. This so called photodestruction is thought to be important for dynamic aspects of sensing such as measuring day length or shading by competitors. Signal-triggered proteolytic degradation has emerged as central element of signal crosstalk in plants during recent years, but many of the molecular players are still unknown. We therefore analyzed a jasmonate (JA)-deficient rice mutant, hebiba, that in several aspects resembles a mutant affected in photomorphogenesis. In this mutant, the photodestruction of phyA is delayed as shown by in vivo spectroscopy and Western blot analysis. Application of methyl-JA (MeJA) can rescue the delayed phyA photodestruction in the mutant in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Light regulation of phyA transcripts thought to be under control of stable phytochrome B (phyB) is still functional. The delayed photodestruction is accompanied by an elevated sensitivity of phytochrome-dependent growth responses to red and far-red light.
19184107	Duplicate genes are believed to be a major source of new gene functions over evolutionary time. In order to evaluate the evolutionary dynamics of rice duplicate genes, formed principally by paleoployploidization prior to the speciation of the Poaceae family, we have employed a public microarray dataset including 155 gene expression omnibus sample plates and bioinformatics tools. At least 57.4% of old approximately 70 million years ago (MYA) duplicate gene pairs exhibit divergences in expression over the given experimental set, whereas at least 50.9% of young approximately 7.7-MYA duplicate gene pairs were shown to be divergent. When grouping the rice duplicate genes according to functional categories, we noted a striking and significant enrichment of divergent duplicate metabolism-associated genes, as compared to that observed in non-divergent duplicate genes. While both non-synonymous substitution (Ka) and synonymous substitution (Ks) values between non- and divergent duplicate gene pairs evidenced significant differences, the Ka/Ks values between them exhibited no significant differences. Interestingly, the average numbers of conserved motifs of the duplicate gene pairs revealed a pattern of decline along with an increase in expression diversity, partially supporting the subfunctionalization model with degenerative complementation in regulatory motifs. Duplicate gene pairs with high local similarity (HLS) segments, which might be formed via conversion between rice paleologs, evidenced higher expression correlations than were observed in the gene pairs without the HLS segments; this probably resulted in an increased likelihood of gene conversion in promoters of the gene pairs harboring HLS segments. More than 30% [corrected] of the rice gene families exhibited similar high expression diversity between members as compared to that of randomly selected gene pairs. These findings are likely reflective of the evolutionary dynamics of rice duplicate genes for gene retention.
19184460	Brachypodium distachyon (Brachypodium) has been recently recognized as an emerging model system for both comparative and functional genomics in grass species. In this study, 55,221 repeat masked Brachypodium BAC end sequences (BES) were used for comparative analysis against the 12 rice pseudomolecules. The analysis revealed that approximately 26.4% of BES have significant matches with the rice genome and 82.4% of the matches were homologous to known genes. Further analysis of paired-end BES and approximately 1.0 Mb sequences from nine selected BACs proved to be useful in revealing conserved regions and regions that have undergone considerable genomic changes. Differential gene amplification, insertions/deletions and inversions appeared to be the common evolutionary events that caused variations of microcolinearity at different orthologous genomic regions. It was found that approximately 17% of genes in the two genomes are not colinear in the orthologous regions. Analysis of BAC sequences also revealed higher gene density (approximately 9 kb/gene) and lower repeat DNA content (approximately 13.1%) in Brachypodium when compared to the orthologous rice regions, consistent with the smaller size of the Brachypodium genome. The 119 annotated Brachypodium genes were BLASTN compared against the wheat EST database and deletion bin mapped wheat ESTs. About 77% of the genes retrieved significant matches in the EST database, while 9.2% matched to the bin mapped ESTs. In some cases, genes in single Brachypodium BACs matched to multiple ESTs that were mapped to the same deletion bins, suggesting that the Brachypodium genome will be useful for ordering wheat ESTs within the deletion bins and developing specific markers at targeted regions in the wheat genome.
19184480	The present study showed a possibility to use phenotypic and proteomic responses in rice plants as an in vivo biomarker to detect higher concentrations of ambient ozone (O(3)). The investigation was done on two cultivars of Indian rice using open top chambers ventilated with charcoal filtered air, ambient air, ambient air with 10 ppb O(3) exposure and ambient air with 20 ppb O(3) exposure at a rural site of Varanasi, India. Results showed that the magnitude of O(3) induced specific type of foliar injury directly depends on the duration and concentration of O(3) exposure. Even the internal protein profile of injured and normal leaf demonstrated a differential expression, which directly indicates towards the molecular basis of plant's response against O(3).
19185305	A monolithic ametryn molecular-imprinted polymer based on a simple polymerization method was fabricated for use as new solid-phase microextraction (SPME) fiber, which can be coupled with GC and GC/MS for selective extraction and analysis of triazine herbicides. Methacrylic acid (MAA), ethylene glycol dimethacrylate (EDMA) and ametryn bear role of functional monomer, cross-linker and template, respectively. In the optimized conditions the fabricated fiber showed better molecular recognition abilities for methylthiotriazine herbicides than chloro-triazine herbicides. By use of bi-Langmuir isotherm model the evaluated equilibrium constants for ametryn were 0.01 and 890.69 microM(-1), and the numbers of binding sites were 129.98 and 5.82 nmol g(-1), respectively. The high extraction efficiency was obtained for ametryn, prometryn, terbutryn, atrazine, simazine, propazine, and cyanazine, yielding the detection limits of 14, 28, 45, 56, 85, 95 and 74 ng mL(-1), respectively by GC with flame ionization detection. The reliability of the prepared fiber for extraction of ametryn and other analogues in real samples has been investigated and proved by using spiked samples such as tap water, rice, maize, and onion.
19185529	Crop domestication can be considered a model system of plant evolution. Genome analyses of rice have revealed the fine population structure of this major crop associated with local origins of landraces. Recent cloning of rice domestication-related genes and identification of the responsible functional nucleotide polymorphisms in landraces, while taking into account their population structures, have revealed the existence of historical signatures of the DNA involved in the domestication process. These signatures imply the importance of multiple selection steps wherein natural variants were combined to improve crop performance during domestication. These analyses will provide new insights into the relationship between Darwinian selection for agronomical phenotypes and DNA changes in terms of plant evolution.
19187041	Transposable elements are ubiquitous components of plant genomes. When active, these mobile elements can induce changes in the genome at both the structural and functional levels. Availability of the complete genome sequence for several model plant species provides the opportunity to study TEs in plants at an unprecedented scale. In the case of rice, annotation of the genomic sequence of the variety Nipponbare has revealed that TE-related sequences form more than 25% of its genome. However, most of the elements found are inactive, either because of structural alterations or because they are the target of various silencing pathways. In this paper, we propose a new post-genomic strategy aimed at identifying active TEs. Our approach relies on transcript profiling of TE-related sequences using a tiling microarray. We applied it to a particular class of TEs, the LTR retrotransposons. A transcript profiling assay of rice calli led to identification of a new transpositionally active family, named Lullaby. We provide a complete structural description of this element. We also show that it has recently been active in planta in rice, and discuss its phylogenetic relationships with Tos17, the only other active LTR retrotransposon described so far in the species.
19187949	Composting organic residue is an interesting alternative to recycling waste as the compost obtained may be used as organic fertilizer. This study aims to assess the composting process of rice straw and sewage sludge on a pilot-scale, to evaluate both the quality of the composts obtained and the effects of applying such compost on soil properties and plant development in pot experiments. Two piles, with shredded and non-shredded rice straw, were composted as static piles with passive aeration. Throughout the composting process, a number of parameters were determined, e.g. colour, temperature, moisture, pH, electrical conductivity, organic matter, C/N ratio, humification index, cation exchange capacity, chemical oxygen demand, and germination index. Moreover, sandy and clayey soils were amended with different doses of mature compost and strewed with barley in pot experiments. The results show that compost made from shredded rice straw reached the temperatures required to maximise product sanitisation, and that the parameters indicating compost maturity were all positive; however, the humification index and NH(4) content were more selective. Therefore, using compost-amended soils at a dose of 34 Mg ha(-1) for sandy soil, and of 11 Mg ha(-1) for clayey soil improves soil properties and the growth of Hordeum vulgare plants. Under there conditions, the only limiting factor of agronomic compost utilisation was the increased soil salinity.
19187990	Rice is the staple diet of more than three billion people. Yields must double over the next 40 years if we are to sustain the nutritional needs of the ever-expanding global population. Between 10% and 30% of the annual rice harvest is lost due to infection by the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. Evaluation of genetic and virulence diversity of blast populations with diagnostic markers will aid disease management. We review the M. oryzae species-specific and cultivar-specific avirulence determinants and evaluate efforts towards generating durable and broad-spectrum resistance in single resistant cultivars or mixtures. We consider modern usage of fungicides and plant defence activators, assess the usefulness of biological control and categorize current approaches towards blast-tolerant genetically modified rice.
19188006	Greenhouse experiments were performed to investigate the root uptake of radionuclides following their acute soil deposition during the growth of several food crops. For this purpose, the soil under the standing plants was contaminated without any direct contamination of their stems or leaves. The intention of this design was to differentiate foilar uptake and root uptake subsequent to a radionuclide deposition during the vegetation period. Soil-to-plant transfer of a radionuclide was quantified with its aggregated transfer factors specified for the time periods from deposition until harvest (T(ag)(a), m(2)kg(-1)). Deposition time-dependent T(ag)(a) values of Mn, Co, Sr and Cs for selected crop species were measured in an acid sandy soil. For rice and Chinese cabbage, HTO experiments were also carried out using this soil. Particularly for rice, experiments with various paddy soils were also performed for (90)Sr and (137)Cs. The obtained T(ag)(a) values varied considerably with the radionuclides, plant species, and times of deposition. Recommendations about, and limitations in, the use of the T(ag)(a) values were discussed.
19188266	The goal was to examine the demographic characteristics, causative foods, clinical features, treatments, and outcomes for children presenting with acute food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome. This was a retrospective study of children with food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome who presented to the Children's Hospital at Westmead (Sydney, Australia) over 16 years. Thirty-five children experienced 66 episodes of food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome. The mean age at initial presentation was 5.5 months. Children frequently experienced multiple episodes before a correct diagnosis was made. Twenty-nine children reacted to 1 food, and 6 reacted to 2 foods. Causative foods for the 35 children were rice (n = 14), soy (n = 12), cow's milk (n = 7), vegetables and fruits (n = 3), meats (n = 2), oats (n = 2), and fish (n = 1). In the 66 episodes, vomiting was the most common clinical feature (100%), followed by lethargy (85%), pallor (67%), and diarrhea (24%). A temperature of <36 degrees C at presentation was recorded for 24% of episodes. A platelet count of >500 x 10(9) cells per L was recorded for 63% of episodes with blood count results. Only 2 of the 19 children who presented to an emergency department with their initial reactions were discharged with correct diagnoses. Additional investigations of food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome episodes presenting to the hospital were common, with 34% of patients undergoing abdominal imaging, 28% undergoing a septic evaluation, and 22% having a surgical consultation. Prognosis was good, with high rates of resolution for the 2 most common food triggers (ie, rice and soy) by 3 years of age. Misdiagnosis and delays in diagnosis for children with food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome were common, leading many children to undergo unnecessary, often painful investigations. Decreased body temperature and thrombocytosis emerge as additional features of the syndrome.
1918870	The potentiality of rice fields in anopheline vector breeding in Koraput district was studied in two agricultural seasons--rubi and kharif. Altogether, 17 species were recorded from the rice fields. The terraced stream bed paddy-fields with a perceptible water flow in top-hill areas support heavy breeding of the principal vector A. fluviatilis at all stages of paddy growth. A. culicifacies and A. annularis breeding became scarce when the paddy plants reached a height of 80 cm. Vector species formed 2 per cent in rabi and 32 per cent in kharif of the anopheline fauna from the paddy fields and the maximum production was during early stage of paddy growth or after harvesting.
19189423	Sorghum, an African grass related to sugar cane and maize, is grown for food, feed, fibre and fuel. We present an initial analysis of the approximately 730-megabase Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench genome, placing approximately 98% of genes in their chromosomal context using whole-genome shotgun sequence validated by genetic, physical and syntenic information. Genetic recombination is largely confined to about one-third of the sorghum genome with gene order and density similar to those of rice. Retrotransposon accumulation in recombinationally recalcitrant heterochromatin explains the approximately 75% larger genome size of sorghum compared with rice. Although gene and repetitive DNA distributions have been preserved since palaeopolyploidization approximately 70 million years ago, most duplicated gene sets lost one member before the sorghum-rice divergence. Concerted evolution makes one duplicated chromosomal segment appear to be only a few million years old. About 24% of genes are grass-specific and 7% are sorghum-specific. Recent gene and microRNA duplications may contribute to sorghum's drought tolerance.
19190097	Rice (Oryza sativa) allelic sugary1 (sug1) mutants defective in isoamylase 1 (ISA1) accumulate varying levels of starch and phytoglycogen in their endosperm, and the activity of a pullulanase-type of a debranching enzyme (PUL) was found to correlate closely with the severity of the sug1 phenotype. Thus, three PUL-deficient mutants were generated to investigate the function of PUL in starch biosynthesis. The reduction of PUL activity had no pleiotropic effects on the other enzymes involved in starch biosynthesis. The short chains (DP < or = 13) of amylopectin in PUL mutants were increased compared with that of the wild type, but the extent of the changes was much smaller than that of sug1 mutants. The alpha-glucan composition [amylose, amylopectin, water-soluble polysaccharide (WSP)] and the structure of the starch components (amylose and amylopectin) of the PUL mutants were essentially the same, although the average chain length of the B(2-3) chains of amylopectin in the PUL mutant was approximately 3 residues longer than that of the wild type. The double mutants between the PUL-null and mild sug1 mutants still retained starch in the outer layer of endosperm tissue, while the amounts of WSP and short chains (DP < or = 7) of amylopectin were higher than those of the sug1 mutant; this indicates that the PUL function partially overlaps with that of ISA1 and its deficiency has a much smaller effect on the synthesis of amylopectin than ISA1 deficiency and the variation of the sug1 phenotype is not significantly dependent on the PUL activities.
19190403	Magnaporthe oryzae, the causal agent of rice blast, forms a specialized infection structure, called an appressorium, which is crucial for penetration and infection of the host plant. Pharmacological data suggest that calcium/calmodulin-dependent signaling is involved in appressorium formation in this fungus. To understand the role of the calcium/ calmodulin-activated protein phosphatase on appressorium formation at the molecular level, MCNA, a gene encoding the catalytic subunit of calcineurin, was functionally characterized in M. oryzae. Transformants expressing sense/antisense RNA of MCNA exhibited significant reductions in mycelial growth, conidiation, appressorium formation, and pathogenicity. cDNA of MCNA functionally complemented a calcineurin disruptant strain (cmp1::LEU2 cmp2::HIS3) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. These data suggest that calcineurin A plays important roles in signal transduction pathways involved in the infection-related morphogenesis and pathogenicity of M. oryzae.
19190415	Strain PUPC1 produces an antifungal protease as well as plant growth promoting enzymes such as 1- aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase and phosphatase. Morphological, cultural, and physiological characteristics as well as 16S rRNA gene-sequence-based phylogenetic analysis confirmed the taxonomic affiliation of PUPC1 as Chryseobacterium aquaticum. The optimum growth of PUPC1 was observed at pH 6.0 and 30 degrees , and maximum protease production was observed in medium B amended with 1% tryptone, 0.5% sucrose, and 0.005% MnCl2. The protease was purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation, Sephadex G-75 gel filtration chromatography, and electroelution from preparative SDS-PAGE. The protease had a molecular mass of 18.5 kDa. The optimum pH and temperature stability of the protease were pH 5.0- 10.0 and temperature 40-70 degrees . Chryseobacterium aquaticum PUPC1 and its protease showed a broad-spectrum antifungal activity against phytopathogenic fungi. Strain PUPC1 also exhibited plant growth promoting traits. The objective of the present investigation was to isolate a strain for agricultural application for plant growth promotion and biocontrol of fungal diseases.
19190986	The hypersensitive response (HR) is a powerful resistance system that plants have developed against pathogen attack. There are two major pathways for HR induction; one is through recognition of the pathogen by a specific host protein, and is known as the host HR. The other is through common biochemical changes upon infection--the nonhost HR. We previously demonstrated that hydrogen peroxide derived from polyamine degradation by polyamine oxidase triggers the typical host HR in tobacco plants upon infection with tobacco mosaic virus. However, it remains to be determined whether or not polyamines are involved in the nonhost HR in tobacco, and in the host HR in other plant species. When tobacco plants were infected with Pseudomonas cichorii, a representative nonhost pathogen, transcripts for six genes encoding enzymes for polyamine metabolism were simultaneously induced, and polyamines were accumulated in apoplasts. Hydrogen peroxide was concomitantly produced and hypersensitive cell death occurred at infected sites. Silencing of polyamine oxidase by the virus-induced gene silencing method resulted in suppression of hydrogen peroxide production and in disappearance of visible hypersensitive cell death with an increase in bacterial growth. Our results indicated that polyamines served as the source of hydrogen peroxide during the nonhost HR in tobacco plants. Further analysis revealed that polyamines were accumulated in apoplasts of Arabidopsis thaliana infected with Pseudomonas syringae, and of rice infected with Magnaporthe grisea, both causing the typical host HR. As in tobacco, it is conceivable that the same mechanism operates for nonhost HR in these plants. Our present observations thus suggested that polyamines are commonly utilized as the source of hydrogen peroxide during host- and nonhost HRs in higher plants.
19191001	The statistical properties of the spontaneous background electrocorticogram (ECoG) were modeled, starting with random numbers, constraining the distributions, and identifying characteristic deviations from randomness in ECoG from subjects at rest and during intentional behaviors. The ECoG had been recorded through 8 x 8 arrays of 64 electrodes, from the surfaces of auditory, visual, or somatic cortices of 9 rabbits, and from the inferotemporal cortex of a human subject. Power spectral densities (PSD) in coordinates of log(10) power versus log(10) frequency of ECoG from subjects at rest usually conformed to noise in power-law distributions in a continuum. PSD of ECoG from active subjects usually deviated from noise in having peaks in log(10) power above the power-law line in various frequency bands. The analytic signals from the Hilbert transform after band pass filtering in the beta and gamma ranges revealed beats from interference among distributed frequencies in band pass filtered noise called Rayleigh noise. The beats were displayed as repetitive down spikes in log(10) analytic power. Repetition rates were proportional to filter bandwidths for all center frequencies. Resting ECoG often gave histograms of the magnitudes and intervals of down spikes that conformed to noise. Histograms from active ECoG often deviated from noise in Rayleigh distributions of down spike intervals by giving what are called Rice (Mathematical analysis of random noise-and appendixes-technical publications monograph B-1589. Bell Telephone Labs Inc., New York, 1950) distributions. Adding power to noise as signals at single frequencies simulated those deviations. The beats in dynamic theory are deemed essential for perception, by gating beta and gamma bursts at theta rates through enhancement of the cortical signal-to-noise ratio in exceptionally deep down spikes called null spikes.
19191385	The photodissociation dynamics of vinyl cyanide (H(2)CCHCN, acrylonitrile) and deuterated vinyl cyanide (D(2)CCDCN) at 193 nm are examined using time-resolved Fourier transform infrared emission spectroscopy. Prior photofragment translational spectroscopy studies [D. A. Blank et al., J. Chem. Phys. 108, 5784 (1998)] of the dissociation have observed the presence of four main dissociation channels; two molecular and two radical in nature. However, with the exception of a<0.01 quantum yield determined for the CN radical loss channel, the branching ratios of the remaining three elimination channels were not measured. The time-resolved emission spectra, including those from the deuterated samples, revealed the presence of acetylene, hydrogen cyanide (HCN), as well as the energetically less stable isomer hydrogen isocyanide (HNC). Acetylene is found in two distinct energetic distributions, suggesting that both three- and four-centered elimination reactions are occurring significantly in the dissociation. In contrast to prior ab initio studies that have suggested the dominant nature of the three-center elimination of molecular hydrogen (H(2)) and cyanovinylidene (:C=CHCN), we find this reaction channel to be of little importance as there is no evidence to support any significant presence of rovibrationally excited cyanoacetylene. Spectral modeling of the product distributions allows for the first experimental determination of the relative occurrence of the three-centered (resulting in HCN+vinylidene) versus four-centered (HNC+acetylene) elimination channels as 3.34 to 1.00, in contrast to the previously calculated value of 126:1. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus analysis depicts that the transition state energy of the four-centered reaction should be about 10 kcal mole(-1) lower than the three-centered reaction.
19191488	Resistance to ALS-inhibiting herbicides in Cyperus difformis has evolved rapidly in many rice areas worldwide. This study identified the mechanism of resistance, assessed cross-resistance patterns to all five chemical groups of ALS-inhibiting herbicides in four C. difformis biotypes, and attempted to sequence the ALS gene. Whole-plant and ALS enzyme activity dose-response assays indicated that the WA biotype was resistant to all ALS-inhibiting herbicides evaluated. The IR biotype was resistant to bensulfuron-methyl, orthosulfamuron, imazethapyr, and propoxycarbazone-sodium and less resistant to bispyribac-sodium and halosulfuron-methyl, and susceptible to penoxsulam. ALS enzyme activity assays indicated that resistance is due to an altered target site yet mutations previously found to endow target-site resistance in weeds were not detected in the sequences obtained. The inability to detect resistance mutations in C. difformis may result from the presence of additional ALS genes, which were not amplified by the primers used. This study reports the first ALS gene sequence from Cyperus difformis. Certain ALS-inhibiting herbicides can still be used to control some resistant C. difformis biotypes. However, because cross-resistance to all five classes of ALS-inhibitors was detected in other resistant biotypes, these herbicides should only be used within an integrated weed management program designed to delay the evolution of herbicide resistance.
19191669	Inhibitors of deoxynivalenol production by Fusarium graminearum are useful for protecting crops from deoxynivalenol contamination. We isolated precocenes and piperitone from the essential oils of Matricaria recutita and Eucalyptus dives, respectively, as specific inhibitors of the production of 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol, a biosynthetic precursor of deoxynivalenol. Precocenes I and II and piperitone inhibited 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol production by F. graminearum in a liquid culture with IC(50) values of 16.6, 1.2, and 306 microM, respectively, without inhibiting fungal growth. Precocene II also inhibited deoxynivalenol production by the fungus in a solid culture on rice with an IC(50) value of 2.0 ppm. Precocene II and piperitone decreased the mRNA levels of Tri4, Tri5, Tri6, and Tri10 encoding proteins required for deoxynivalenol biosynthesis.
19192190	* Despite the paramount importance of nuclear gene data in plant phylogenetics, the search for candidate loci is believed to be challenging and time-consuming. Here we report that the pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) gene family, containing hundreds of members in plant genomes, holds tremendous potential as nuclear gene markers. * We compiled a list of 127 PPR loci that are all intronless and have a single orthologue in both rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis thaliana. The uncorrected p-distances were calculated for these loci between two Arabidopsis species and among three Poaceae genera. We also selected 13 loci to evaluate their phylogenetic utility in resolving relationships among six Poaceae genera and nine diploid Oryza species. * PPR genes have a rapid rate of evolution and can be best used at intergeneric and interspecific levels. Although with substantial amounts of missing data, almost all individual data sets from the 13 loci generate well-resolved gene trees. * With the unique combination of three characteristics (having a large number of loci with established orthology assessment, being intronless, and being rapidly evolving), the PPR genes have many advantages as phylogenetic markers (e.g. straightforward alignment, minimal effort in generating sequence data, and versatile utilities). We perceive that these loci will play an important role in plant phylogenetics.
19192291	Plants use different light signals to adjust their growth and development to the prevailing environmental conditions. Studies in the model species Arabidopsis thaliana and rice indicate that these adjustments are mediated by large changes in the transcriptome. Here we compared transcriptional responses to light in different species of the Solanaceae to investigate common as well as species-specific changes in gene expression. cDNA microarrays were used to identify genes regulated by a transition from long days (LD) to short days (SD) in the leaves of potato and tobacco plants, and by phytochrome B (phyB), the photoreceptor that represses tuberization under LD in potato. We also compared transcriptional responses to photoperiod in Nicotiana tabacum Maryland Mammoth (MM), which flowers only under SD, with those of Nicotiana sylvestris, which flowers only under LD conditions. Finally, we identified genes regulated by red compared to far-red light treatments that promote germination in tomato. Most of the genes up-regulated in LD were associated with photosynthesis, the synthesis of protective pigments and the maintenance of redox homeostasis, probably contributing to the acclimatization to seasonal changes in irradiance. Some of the photoperiodically regulated genes were the same in potato and tobacco. Others were different but belonged to similar functional categories, suggesting that conserved as well as convergent evolutionary processes are responsible for physiological adjustments to seasonal changes in the Solanaceae. A beta-ZIP transcription factor whose expression correlated with the floral transition in Nicotiana species with contrasting photoperiodic responses was also regulated by photoperiod and phyB in potato, and is a candidate gene to act as a general regulator of photoperiodic responses. Finally, GIGANTEA, a gene that controls flowering time in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, was regulated by photoperiod in the leaves of potato and tobacco and by red compared to far-light treatments that promote germination in tomato seeds, suggesting that a conserved light signaling cascade acts across developmental contexts and species.
19192388	Three novel Class A genes that encode heat shock transcription factor (HSF) were cloned from Oryza Sativa L using a yeast hybrid method. The OsHSF7 gene was found to be rapidly expressed in high levels in response to temperature, which indicates that it may be involved in heat stress reception and response. Over-expression of OsHSF7 in transgenic Arabidopsis could not induced over the expression of most target heat stress-inducible genes of HSFs; however, the transcription of some HSF target genes was more abundant in transgenic plants following two hours of heat stress treatment. In addition, those transgenic plants also had a higher basal thermotolerance, but not acquired thermotolerance. Collectively, the results of this study indicate that OsHSF7 might play an important role in the response to high temperature. Specifically, these findings indicate that OsHSF7 may be useful in the production of transgenic monocots that can over-express protective genes such as HSPs in response to heat stress, which will enable such plants to tolerate high temperatures. [BMB reports 2009; 42(1): 16-21].
19192805	Biomass fuel combustion for residential energy significantly influences both emissions and the atmospheric burden of aerosols in world regions, i.e., east and south Asia. This study reports measurements of climate-relevant properties of particles emitted from biomass fuels widely used for cooking in south Asia, in laboratory experiments simulating actual cooking in the region. Fuel burn rates of 1-2 kg h(-1) for wood species, and 1.5-2 kg h(-1) for crop residues and dried cattle dung, influenced PM2.5 emission factors which were 1.7-2 g kg(-1) at low burn rates but 5-9 gkg(-1) at higher burn rates. Total carbon accounted for 45-55% and ions and trace elements for 2-12% of PM2.5 mass. The elemental carbon (EC) content was variable and highest (22-35%) in particles emitted from low burn rate combustion (wood and jute stalks) but significantly lower (2-4%) from high burn rate combustion (dried cattle dung and rice straw). The mass absorption cross-section (MAC, m2 g(-1)) correlated with EC content for strongly absorbing particles. Weakly absorbing particles, from straw and dung combustion, showed absorption that could not be explained by EC content alone. On average, the MAC of biofuel emission particles was significantly higher than reported measurements from forest fires but somewhat lower than those from diesel engines, indicating potential to significantly influence atmospheric absorption. Both for a given fuel and across different fuels, increased burn rates result in higher emission rates of PM2.5, larger organic carbon (OC) content, larger average particle sizes, and lower MAC. Larger mean particle size (0.42-1.31 microm MMAD) and organic carbon content, than in emissions from combustion sources like diesels, have potential implications for hygroscopic growth and cloud nucleation behavior of these aerosols. These measurements can be used to refine regional emission inventories and derive optical parametrizations, for climate modeling, representative of regions dominated by primary particles from biomass fuel combustion.
19193962	OsARF1 is the first full-length member of auxin response factor (ARF) gene family to be cloned from monocot plant. Using quantitative RT-PCR this study found that, the transcript abundance of OsARF1 was significantly higher in embryonic tissues than in vegetative tissues. To investigate the effect of OsARF1 on the phenotype of rice, a cDNA fragment of OsARF1 was inserted in inverse orientation to the 35S promoter in vector pBin438 to produce an antisense (AS) construction. The AS-OsARF1 construct was transferred into rice (Oryza sativa L. japonica) calli via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Molecular analysis of transgenic plants showed that the functional expression of OsARF1 was inhibited at mRNA level efficiently. The AS-OsARF1 plants showed extremely low growth, poor vigor, short curled leaves and tillered but were sterile. Therefore, the OsARF1 was shown to be essential for growth in vegetative organs and seed development.
19193968	Probenazole (3-allyloxy-1,2-benzothiazole 1,1-dioxide, PBZ) is a bactericide and fungicide that acts by inducing plant defense systems. It has been shown to induce the expression of NBS-LRR genes like RPR1 (rice probenazole-response gene) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) and systemic acquired resistance (SAR)-like disease resistance. Two maize (Zea mays L.) genes Zmnbslrr1 (a NBS-LRR gene, cloned from a disease resistance analog PIC11 based) and Zmgc1, (a putative guanylyl cyclase-like gene) have both been associated with quantitative resistance loci (QTL) for resistance to Fusarium graminearum. PIC11 was associated with Fusarium stalk rot and ZmGC1 showed resistance to Gibberella ear rot caused by F. graminearum. The objectives of the current study here were to characterize the Zmnbslrr1 gene and to determine whether it and Zmgc1 respond to the inducer PBZ. The transcript abundance of Zmnbslrr1 expression was significantly reduced in corn seedlings of the Gibberella ear rot resistant genotype CO387 48 h after PBZ treatment. In contrast, the transcript abundance of the maize Zmgc1 gene increased more than 10-fold 8h after the treatment. Therefore, the two genes do not appear to be coordinately regulated by PBZ.
1919524	A new virus, belonging to the reovirus group, was found in an apparently healthy colony of the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, and was referred to as the Nilaparvata lugens reovirus (NLRV). The virus was found in the cytoplasm of the insect cells, sometimes associated with tubular structures, which is one of the characteristic features in tissues infected with reoviruses. The virus was purified by carbon tetrachloride clarification, polyethylene glycol precipitation, differential and CsCl equilibrium centrifugations. The virus has double-shelled particles approximately 65 nm in diameter, containing 10 genome segments of dsRNA. The electrophoretic profile of the dsRNA segments differed from those of viruses associated with rice planthoppers and leafhoppers. Seven proteins were detected in a purified preparation of the virus: four were associated with the core particle and three with the outer shell. A virus antigen was detected in individual insects by ELISA. The virus is retained after injection and is vertically transmitted to the offspring.
19195488	The available knowledge on the epidemiology of Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) is reassessed in the light of major advances in field and molecular studies of the disease it causes in rice. Previously un-described means of transmission by mammals and through leaf contact have been discovered recently. Several agricultural practices, including the use of seedbed nurseries, have also contributed to a massive build-up of RYMV inoculum. Phytosanitation is now known to be critical to reduce disease incidence in rice. A new model of the ecology of RYMV in which man plays a central role has emerged. Furthermore, estimates of the evolutionary rate of change of RYMV provided a time-frame for its epidemiology, the first attempt for a plant virus. Earlier interpretations of the patterns of virus diversity which assumed a long-term evolution, and assigned a major role to adaptive events had to be discarded. In contrast, a wave-like model of dispersal of RYMV, which postulates its initial diversification in East Africa, followed by westward spread across the continent, was developed, refined and dated. The most salient -- and largely unexpected -- finding is that RYMV emerged recently and subsequently spread rapidly throughout Africa in the last two centuries. Diversification and spread of RYMV has been concomitant with an extension of rice cultivation in Africa since the 19th century. This major agro-ecological change increased the encounters between primary hosts of RYMV and cultivated rice. It also modified the landscape ecology in ways that facilitated virus spread.
19195881	Rice straw has recently attracted interest in Japan as a potential source of raw material for ethanol production. Wet disk milling, a continuous pretreatment to enhance the enzymatic digestibility of rice straw, was compared with conventional ball milling and hot-compressed water treatment. Pretreated rice straw was evaluated by enzymatic hydrolysis using Acremonium cellulase and characterized by X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy. Glucose and xylose yields by wet disk milling, ball milling, and hot-compressed water treatment were 78.5% and 41.5%, 89.4% and 54.3%, and 70.3% and 88.6%, respectively. Wet disk milling and hot-compressed water treatment increased sugar yields without decreasing their crystallinity. The feature size of the wet disk milled rice straw was similar to that of hot-compressed water-treated rice straw. The energy consumption of wet disk milling was lower than that of other pretreatments. Thus, wet disk milling is an economical, practical pretreatment for the enzymatic hydrolysis of lignocellulosic biomass, especially herbaceous biomass such as rice straw.
19198844	In genetic transformation systems, antibiotic resistance genes are routinely used as powerful markers for selecting transformed cells from surrounding non-transformed cells. However, simultaneous use of the gene encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP) and an antibiotic resistance gene facilitates the selection process, since it allows visible selection of transformed cells. Here, we report the development of a visual selection system for transformed cells using a GFP marker without selection against antibiotics after Agrobacterium-mediated transformation in rice. Both GFP protein levels and GFP fluorescence in calli isolated by visual selection were higher than in calli selected on hygromycin (Hyg), suggesting that transgenic calli hyper-accumulating GFP were efficiently obtained by selection using GFP fluorescence itself rather than Hyg resistance. Furthermore, gfp transcripts in calli isolated by visual selection were more abundant than under Hyg selection; in contrast, transcript levels of hpt in calli selected visually were comparable to those obtained under Hyg selection. These results suggest that there was no correlation between hpt and gfp expression levels, despite the fact that they are aligned in tandem on an integrated locus after selection by either GFP fluorescence or Hyg resistance. This fact indicates that positional effects can influence the expression of each transgene differently, even when they are located in tandem at the same locus. In summary, based on our results, we discuss a model system for rice cell culture transformation for the production of recombinant proteins using visual selection.
19198875	DNA-binding with one finger (Dof) proteins are a large family of transcription factors involved in a variety of biological processes in plants. In rice, 30 different Dof genes have been identified through genome analysis. Here we report the functional characteristics of a rice Dof gene, OsDof12, which encodes a predicted Dof protein. The nuclear localization of OsDof12 was investigated by the transient expression assays of the OsDof12-GFP fusion protein in onion epidermal cells. Trans-activation assays in a yeast one-hybrid system indicated that OsDof12 had transcriptional activity. RNA expression analyses showed that the expression of OsDof12 was not tissue-specific in general and fluctuated at different development stages in rice. In addition, OsDof12 was strongly inhibited by dark treatments. The transgenic lines overexpressing OsDof12 showed early flowering under long-day (LD) conditions, whereas OsDof12 overexpression had no effect on flowering time under short-day (SD) conditions. In transgenic lines overexpressing OsDof12, the transcription levels of Hd3a and OsMADS14 were up-regulated under LD conditions but not SD conditions, whereas the expression of Hd1, OsMADS51, Ehd1 and OsGI did not change under LD and SD conditions. These results suggested that OsDof12 might regulate flowering by controlling the expression of Hd3a and OsMADS14.
19199048	Abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellins (GAs) control several developmental processes including seed maturation, dormancy, and germination. The antagonism of these two hormones is well-documented. However, recent data from transcription profiling studies indicate that they can function as agonists in regulating the expression of many genes although the underlying mechanism is unclear. Here we report a rice WRKY gene, OsWRKY24, which encodes a protein that functions as a negative regulator of both GA and ABA signaling. Overexpression of OsWRKY24 via particle bombardment-mediated transient expression in aleurone cells represses the expression of two reporter constructs: the beta-glucuronidase gene driven by the GA-inducible Amy32b alpha-amylase promoter (Amy32b-GUS) and the ABA-inducible HVA22 promoter (HVA22-GUS). OsWRKY24 is unlikely a general repressor because it has little effect on the expression of the luciferase reporter gene driven by a constitutive ubiquitin promoter (UBI-Luciferase). As to the GA signaling, OsWRKY24 differs from OsWRKY51 and -71, two negative regulators specifically function in the GA signaling pathway, in several ways. First, OsWRKY24 contains two WRKY domains while OsWRKY51 and -71 have only one; both WRKY domains are essential for the full repressing activity of OsWRKY24. Second, binding of OsWRKY24 to the Amy32b promoter appears to involve sequences in addition to the TGAC cores of the W-boxes. Third, unlike OsWRKY71, OsWRKY24 is stable upon GA treatment. Together, these data demonstrate that OsWRKY24 is a novel type of transcriptional repressor that inhibits both GA and ABA signaling.
19200583	This study was conducted to estimate the total daily dietary intakes (TDIs) of three PHAHs subfamilies for residents living around the large e-waste disassembly sites in the Zhejiang province of China. A total of 191 food samples (including seven food groups and drinking water) were obtained from the disassembly sites and the control site in April, 2007. The levels of three PHAHs were measured by GC-MS. The estimated TDIs of PBBs (385.5 ng day(-1)), PBDEs (195.9 ng day(-1)), and PCBs (12,372.9 ng day(-1)) in the disassembly sites were approximately 2-3 times higher than those in the control site, which suggested that these PHAHs from e-waste might have entered into the food chain. Rice appeared to be the food group showing the highest contribution to the individual dietary intakes of these PHAHs. The estimated TDIs were also compared with those results reported recently in the literature and their respective reference doses by WHO (or Health Canada). By and large, although the estimated TDIs for the PHAHs under study were lower than their respective reference doses, they were obviously higher than those observed in other places listed in the literature, thus suggesting that residents living around the disassembly sites have been exposed to higher levels of PHAHs than those places, and might thus be at greater health risk.
19201242	The effect of sonication on the pasting properties of waxy rice starch solutions (5 wt%) was investigated. It has been found that the functionality of starch granules was significantly influenced by the length of sonication and the solution temperature. A comparison of the pasting behaviour showed that the peak and final viscosities of the starch dispersions sonicated at temperatures near the onset temperature of gelatinisation were lower than those of the non-sonicated dispersions. The particle size measurements showed that the size of the heated and sonicated granules were smaller than that of the heated non-sonicated starch granules. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observations showed that the starch granule surface was not affected by sonication, and the size exclusion chromatography did not show any reduction in the size of the starch molecules. Based on these observations, the change in the pasting behaviour is explained in terms of the solubilisation of the swollen starch granules and starch aggregates induced by sonication.
19201513	Rice is a widely grown crop in Asia. China (30%) and India (21%) contribute to about half of the world's total rice production. In this study, three major rice-producing countries in Asia are considered, India, Thailand and the Philippines (the later two contributing 4% and 2% of the world's rice production). Rice straw is one of the main field based residues produced along with this commodity and its applications vary widely in the region. Although rice production practises vary from one country to another, open burning of straw is a common practice in these countries. In this study, an approach was followed aiming at (a) determining the quantity of rice straw being subject to open field burning in those countries, (b) congregating pollutant specific emissions factors for rice straw burning, and (c) quantifying the resulting air pollutant emissions. Uncertainties in the results obtained as compared to a global approach are also discussed.
19201764	Although copper (Cu) is an essential micronutrient for plants and algae, excess Cu is toxic to most plants and can cause a wide range of deleterious effects. To investigate the response of rice (Oryza sativa) to Cu stress, a proteomic approach was used to analyse Cu stress-induced changes in the expression of low molecular-weight proteins in germinating rice seed embryos. Rice seeds were germinated in the presence or absence of 200 microm Cu for 6 d, and embryos, including newly formed shoots and radicles, were isolated. After proteins were extracted from the germinating embryos and separated by two-dimensional PAGE, 16 proteins in the 6- to 25-kDa range were identified using MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. Thirteen of the proteins identified, including metallothionein-like protein, membrane-associated protein-like protein, putative wall-associated protein kinase, pathogenesis-related proteins and the putative small GTP-binding protein Rab2, were up-regulated by Cu stress. Three proteins, a putative small cytochrome P450 (CYP90D2), a putative thioredoxin and a putative GTPase, were down-regulated by Cu stress. As far as is known, this study provides the first proteomic evidence that metallothionein and CYP90D2 are Cu-responsive proteins in plants. These findings may lead to a better understanding of plant molecular responses to toxic metal exposure.
19202265	In this study, we identified a gene encoding tomato ENGase (Endo-LE) using the gene information of rice ENGase, and expressed the Endo-LE protein in Escherichia coli. The substrate specificity of the recombinant Endo-LE was the same as that of the native enzyme, showing strong activity towards the high-mannose type N-glycans with the Manalpha1-2Manalpha1-3Manbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta1-4GlcNAc unit. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that the gene expression of Endo-LE did not vary significantly with the tomato ripening process, indicating that Endo-LE activity is ubiquitously expressed.
19202314	The volatile oils from red and black rice bran were obtained by hydrodistillation using diethyl ester and the components of that oil were analyzed by capillary GC-MS. The volatile components of essential oil from red and black rice bran were analyzed by GC and GC-MS. One hundred twenty-nine (129) of volatile compounds were identified in red and black rice bran. Myristic acid, nonanal, (E)-beta-ocimene and 6, 10, 14-trimethyl-2-pentadecanone were main compounds in red rice bran, whereas myristic acid, nonanal, caproic acid, pentadecanal and pelargonic acid were main compounds in black rice bran. Guaiacol, presented at 0.81 mg/100 g in black rice bran, is responsible for the characteristic component in black rice.
19202769	To assess the malaria reintroduction risk in Morocco, we analyzed the malariogenic potential of a rice cultivation area in the north of the country. Our results showed that the receptivity of this area is very high during all the period of the rice cultivation, from May to October, the vectorial capacity of An. labranchiae, malaria vector in Morocco, is considerably high during the summer which corresponds to the rice cultivation period. The risk of autochthonous malaria resumption is important because of the possible presence of gametocytes carriers in the last malaria focus which is bordering the study area. The risk of a tropical malaria introduction is unimportant seen the low vulnerability of the area and the uncertain competence of its vectors considered. However, this risk must be considered with a more attention.
19203276	Rice blast severely reduces production in both irrigated and water-stressed upland ecosystems of tropical and temperate countries. Nearly 50 blast resistance genes have been identified and some of those are incorporated into several rice cultivars. However, most of the resistance genes break down in a few years because of their race specificity and the rapid change in pathogenicity of the blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea). The objective of this study was to analyze advanced backcross breeding lines (ABL) possessing the gene Pi40 for durable rice blast resistance. In all, 4 resistant genotypes, 4 japonica cultivars, and 10 monogenic differential rice genotypes with some known resistance genes were bioassayed in the greenhouse using seven sequential plantings and 29 virulent M. grisea isolates of Korea. The genotypes with the Pi40 gene had <3% diseased leaf area, which was significantly below the disease threshold level of 40% considered for durable blast resistance. Moreover, the genotypes with the Pi40 gene expressed compatibility with only two to three virulent M. grisea isolates supporting durability of resistance, in contrast to susceptible cultivars with >50% diseased leaf area and 10 compatible isolates. Of the 10 known resistance genes tested, Piz-t, Piz-5, and Pi9 showed differential reactions to the pathogen isolates in seven plantings. Genotyping of the ABL with 260 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers revealed rapid conversion toward recurrent parent genotypes with fewer donor chromosomal segments (5.3 to 14.5%). Our study based on a sequential testing and background selection of breeding lines with the resistance gene Pi40 provided valuable information for durable blast resistance breeding in rice.
19203401	The tropical fire ant Solenopsis geminata (Fabricius) often nests very abundantly in the earthen banks (bunds) around irrigated rice fields in the tropics. Where some farmers habitually drain fields to the mud for about 3-4 days, the ants can quickly spread up to about 20 m into the fields where they collect food, including pest prey such as the eggs and young of the apple snail Pomacea caniculata (Lamarck) and insects such as lepidopterous larvae and hoppers, notably Nilaparvata lugens (Stäl) the brown planthopper (Bph) and green leafhoppers Nephotettix spp. Even in drained fields, the activity of S. geminata is restricted by rainfall in the wet season. The relatively few ant workers that forage characteristically into drained fields and on to the transplanted clumps of rice plants (hills) kill the normally few immigrant Bph adults but are initially slower acting than other species of the natural enemy complex. However, larger populations of Bph are fiercely attacked and effectively controlled by rapidly recruited ant workers; whereas, in the absence of the ant, the other natural enemies are inadequate. In normal circumstances, there is no ant recruitment in response to initially small populations of immigrant Bph and no evidence of incompatibility between ant foragers and other natural enemies such as spiders. However, when many ants are quickly and aggressively recruited to attack large populations of Bph, they temporarily displace some spiders from infested hills. It is concluded that, in suitable weather conditions and even when insecticides kill natural enemies within the rice field, periodic drainage that enables S. geminata to join the predator complex is valuable for ant-based control of pests such as snails and Lepidoptera, and especially against relatively large populations of Bph. Drainage practices to benefit ants are fully compatible with recent research, which shows that periodic drainage combats problems of 'yield decline' in intensively irrigated tropical rice and is also needed in South East Asia to make better use of seriously declining water supplies for irrigation.
19205121
19205127	The forest hunter-gatherers of the middle Yangtze River basin, who were the first to invent pottery and led a sedentary lifestyle, may have begun to cultivate rice during the Bølling-Allerød interstadial global warming period. The earliest rice cultivation may have dated back to 14,000 calibrated (cal.) years before present (YBP). The global warming at 9000 cal. YBP in the early Holocene brought the development of the rice cultivation to the middle Yangtze River basin. On the other hand, ancient rice-cultivating and piscatorial society met a crisis at 4200-4000 cal. YBP that was characterized by a significant cooling of the climate. This climate deterioration led the northern wheat/barley-cultivating pastoral people to migrate to the south and invade, ultimately bringing about the collapse of the rice-cultivating and piscatorial society in the Yangtze River basin.
19205627	Cadmium, a toxic heavy metal, poses a significant threat to human health. Currently, the methods for detecting cadmium residue in farm produce need expensive equipment, intensive labor, and much time to finish one detection. In this study, a direct competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (DC-ELISA) based on a cadmium-chelate-specific monoclonal antibody has been developed. The DC-ELISA showed an IC(50) of 2.30 microg/L with a detection limit of 0.20 microg/L for cadmium. The assay has been demonstrated to be highly specific since the monoclonal antibody showed little or no cross-reactivity with all tested metal chelates which include Cd(2+), Pb(2+), Hg(2+), Zn(2+), Na(+), Ca(2+), Fe(3+), Mg(2+), Mn(2+), Cu(2+), Al(3+), Co(2+), Cr(2+), Ni(2+), Sn(2), and K(+). The assay showed that a mean recovery ranged from 100.47% to 103.86%, and the coefficients of variations for intra- and inter-assay were 1.73-7.14% and 3.63-6.81%, respectively. Then, several farm produces including wheat flour, apple juice, rice flour, and tea were analyzed for cadmium residue with DC-ELISA and graphite furnace atomic absorption spectroscopy (GFAAS). The correlation coefficient between the DC-ELISA and GFAAS was 0.99. It was demonstrated that the DC-ELISA can be used as a simple and economic method to detect and quantitate cadmium residue in farm produce.
19205894	A novel OSPGYRP gene encoding a rice proline-, glycine- and tyrosine-rich protein was isolated from cold-stress treated rice seedlings using suppression subtractive hybridization. Both amino acid sequence analysis and subcellular localization confirm that OsPGYRP is a novel protein involved in vesicle trafficking. The expression of the OSPGYRP gene was induced by cold, salt, and osmotic stress. In addition, expression of the OSPGYRP gene in E. coli increased the resistance to cold stress. These results show that OsPGYRP is a novel protein involved in vesicle trafficking and plays an important role in plant adaptation to stress.
19206094	The brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Stål), is a serious pest that causes enormous losses to the rice crop in Asia. The genetic basis of imidacloprid resistance was investigated in N. lugens. The resistant strain, selected for imidacloprid resistance from a field population of N. lugens collected from Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China, showed a 964-fold resistance compared with the laboratory strain. Progenies of reciprocal crosses (F(1) and F(1)') showed similar dose-mortality responses (LC(50)) to imidacloprid, and also exhibited a similar degree of dominance (D), 0.58 for F(1) and 0.63 for F(1)'. Chi-square analyses of self-bred and backcross progenies (F(2), F(2)' and BC respectively) rejected the hypothesis for a single gene control of the resistance. The estimated realized heritability (h(2)) of imidacloprid resistance was 0.1141 in the resistant strain of N. lugens. The results showed that imidacloprid resistance in N. lugens was autosomal and was expressed as an incompletely dominant trait, probably controlled by multiple genes.
19206412	Single-particle tracking of individual single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) using their near-infrared band gap fluorescence is a powerful tool for understanding how these Brownian rods diffuse and interact with various molecular force potentials, including living systems. Pioneered by the Weisman laboratory at Rice University, the method is one of the only available to study single SWNT molecules in solution over extended periods since SWNTs have no apparent irreversible photobleaching threshold at moderate fluence and no intrinsic blinking mechanism. Recent progress by Tsyboulski et al. shows how real-time measurement of rotational and transitional diffusivities can provide information about rod length and mechanical properties. Recently, Jin et al. used single-particle tracking to map the trajectories of SWNTs as they are incorporated into and expelled from NIH-3T3 cells in real time. The technique has provided the first evidence of nanoparticle exocytosis in this case and demonstrates an expulsion rate that closely matches the endocytosis rate. The ability to track and to analyze single molecules in this way may lead to new technologies that utilize as their platform a single, freely diffusing nanotube.
19206576	Single crystalline nanoneedles of polyaniline (PANI) and polypyrrole (PPY) were synthesized using an interfacial polymerization for the first time. The interfacial crystallization of conductive polymers at the liquid/liquid interface allowed PANI and PPY polymers to form single crystalline nanocrystals in a rice-like shape in the dimensions of 63 nm x 12 nm for PANI and 70 nm x 20 nm for PPY. Those crystalline nanoneedles displayed a fast conductance switching in the time scale of milliseconds. An important growth condition necessary to yield highly crystalline conductive polymers was the extended crystallization time at the liquid/liquid interfaces to increase the degree of crystallization. As compared to other interfacial polymerization methods, lower concentrations of monomer and oxidant solutions were employed to further extend the crystallization time. While other interfacial growth of conducting polymers yielded noncrystalline polymer fibers, our interfacial method produced single crystalline nanocrystals of conductive polymers. We recently reported the liquid/liquid interfacial synthesis of conducting PEDOT nanocrystals; however, this liquid/liquid interfacial method needs to be extended to other conductive polymer nanocrystal syntheses in order to demonstrate that our technique could be applied as the general fabrication procedure for the single crystalline conducting polymer growth. In this report, we showed that the liquid/liquid interfacial crystallization could yield PANI nanocrystals and PPY nanocrystals, other important conductive polymers, in addition to PEDOT nanocrystals. The resulting crystalline polymers have a fast conductance switching time between the insulating and conducting states on the order of milliseconds. This technique will be useful to synthesize conducting polymers via oxidative coupling processes in a single crystal state, which is extremely difficult to achieve by other synthetic methods.
19207212	Numerous genes are involved in the regulation of plant development, including those that regulate floral homeotic genes, We identified two recessive allelic rice mutants, open beak-1 (opb-1) and opb-2, which exhibited pleiotropic defects in leaf morphogenesis, inflorescence architecture, and floral organ identity. Abnormal cell proliferation was observed in the leaves and spikelets, and ectopic or overexpression of several class 1 knox genes was detected; thus, the abnormal cell proliferation in opb mutants is probably caused by ectopic class 1 knox gene expression. The opb mutants also had defects in floral organ identity, resulting in the development of mosaic organs, including gluminous lodicules, staminoid lodicules, and pistiloid stamens. These results, together with the reduced expression of a class B gene, indicate that OPB positively regulates the expression of class B genes. Map-based cloning revealed that OPB encodes a transcription factor that is orthologous to the Arabidopsis JAGGED gene and is expressed in leaf primordia, inflorescence meristem, rachis branch meristems, floral meristem, and floral organ primordia. Taken together, our data suggest that the OPB gene affects cellular proliferation and floral organ identity through the regulation of class 1 knox genes and floral homeotic genes.
19207436	We report a 22-year-old woman with urticaria, dyspnea and bronchial asthma-like attacks after eating curried rice. We found the symptoms to be due to an immediate-type allergy caused by spice antigens contained in curry spices by detailed questioning, skin test and measurement of specific immunoglobulin (Ig)E antibodies. This case was complicated with pollen-food allergy syndrome (PFAS) from melon and latex allergy (LA) to natural rubber latex (NRL) antigen and she had also had atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis and pollinosis. Serum specific IgE antibodies to birch profilin (Bet v 2), latex profilin (Hev b 8), and timothy profilin (Phl p 12) were detected. She also showed positive reactions to several Apiaceae families, fruits and latex antigens in skin prick test. Based on these findings, we considered her symptoms to be involved with spice allergy, PFAS and latex-fruit syndrome.
19207564	The distribution of archaeal amoA and 16S rRNA genes was evaluated in two marine-derived, meromictic lakes in the Canadian High Arctic: Lake A and Lake C1 on the northern coast of Ellesmere Island. The amoA gene was recorded in both lakes, with highest copy numbers in the oxycline. Sequence analysis showed that amoA from the two lakes shared 94% similarity, indicating at least two phylogenetically distinct clusters. Clone libraries of archaeal 16S rRNA genes from Lake A revealed strong vertical differences in archaeal community diversity and composition down the water column. The oxic layer was dominated by one group of Euryarchaeota affiliated to the Lake Dagow Sediment (LDS) cluster. This group was absent from the oxycline, which had an extremely low archaeal diversity of two phylotypes. Both belonged to the Crenarchaeota Marine Group I (MGI), the marine group that has been linked to archaeal amoA; however, there was a low ratio of amoA to MGI copy numbers, suggesting that many MGI Archaea did not carry the amoA gene. The anoxic zone contained representatives of the RC-V (Rice Cluster-V) and LDS clusters of Euryarchaeota. These results show the strong vertical differentiation of archaeal communities in polar meromictic lakes, and they suggest archaeal nitrification within the oxycline of these highly stratified waters.
19207683	Arsenic (As) is an element that is nonessential for and toxic to plants. Arsenic contamination in the environment occurs in many regions, and, depending on environmental factors, its accumulation in food crops may pose a health risk to humans.Recent progress in understanding the mechanisms of As uptake and metabolism in plants is reviewed here. Arsenate is taken up by phosphate transporters. A number of the aquaporin nodulin26-like intrinsic proteins (NIPs) are able to transport arsenite,the predominant form of As in reducing environments. In rice (Oryza sativa), arsenite uptake shares the highly efficient silicon (Si) pathway of entry to root cells and efflux towards the xylem. In root cells arsenate is rapidly reduced to arsenite, which is effluxed to the external medium, complexed by thiol peptides or translocated to shoots. One type of arsenate reductase has been identified, but its in planta functions remain to be investigated. Some fern species in the Pteridaceae family are able to hyperaccumulate As in above-ground tissues. Hyperaccumulation appears to involve enhanced arsenate uptake, decreased arsenite-thiol complexation and arsenite efflux to the external medium, greatly enhanced xylem translocation of arsenite, and vacuolar sequestration of arsenite in fronds. Current knowledge gaps and future research directions are also identified.
19208137	Non-coding RNA (ncRNA) genes do not encode proteins but produce functional RNA molecules that play crucial roles in many key biological processes. Recent genome-wide transcriptional profiling studies using tiling arrays in organisms such as human and Arabidopsis have revealed a great number of transcripts, a large portion of which have little or no capability to encode proteins. This unexpected finding suggests that the currently known repertoire of ncRNAs may only represent a small fraction of ncRNAs of the organisms. Thus, efficient and effective prediction of ncRNAs has become an important task in bioinformatics in recent years. Among the available computational methods, the comparative genomic approach seems to be the most powerful to detect ncRNAs. The recent completion of the sequencing of several major plant genomes has made the approach possible for plants. We have developed a pipeline to predict novel ncRNAs in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome. It starts by comparing the expressed intergenic regions of Arabidopsis as provided in two whole-genome high-density oligo-probe arrays from the literature with the intergenic nucleotide sequences of all completely sequenced plant genomes including rice (Oryza sativa), poplar (Populus trichocarpa), grape (Vitis vinifera), and papaya (Carica papaya). By using multiple sequence alignment, a popular ncRNA prediction program (RNAz), wet-bench experimental validation, protein-coding potential analysis, and stringent screening against various ncRNA databases, the pipeline resulted in 16 families of novel ncRNAs (with a total of 21 ncRNAs). In this paper, we undertake a genome-wide search for novel ncRNAs in the genome of Arabidopsis by a comparative genomics approach. The identified novel ncRNAs are evolutionarily conserved between Arabidopsis and other recently sequenced plants, and may conduct interesting novel biological functions.
19208694	We had previously demonstrated that expression of a cytoplasmic-localized ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) mutant gene from Escherichia coli in rice endosperm resulted in enhanced starch synthesis and, in turn, higher seed weights. In this study, the levels of the major primary carbon metabolites were assessed in wild type and four transgenic CS8 rice lines expressing 3- to 6-fold higher AGPase activity. Consistent with the increase in AGPase activity, all four transgenic CS8 lines showed elevated levels of ADPglucose (ADPglc) although the extent of increases in this metabolite was much higher than the extent of increases in starch as measured by seed weight. Surprisingly, the levels of several other key intermediates were significantly altered. Glucose 1-phosphate (Glc 1-P), a substrate of the AGPase reaction, as well as UDPglucose and Glc 6-P were also elevated to the same relative extent in the transgenic lines compared with the wild-type control. Analysis of metabolite ratios showed no significant differences between the wild type and transgenic lines, indicating that the reactions leading from sucrose metabolism to ADPglc formation were in near equilibrium. Moreover, glucose and fructose levels were also elevated in three transgenic lines that showed the largest differences in metabolites and seed weight over the wild type, suggesting the induction of invertase. Overall, the results indicate that the AGPase-catalyzed reaction is no longer limiting in the transgenic lines, and constraints on carbon flux into starch are downstream of ADPglc formation, resulting in an elevation of precursors upstream of ADPglc formation.
19208695	Both glucose and ABA play crucial roles in the regulation of seed germination and post-germination development. In Arabidopsis thaliana, up-regulation of ABA biosynthesis is suggested as one of the possible mechanisms mediating the glucose-induced delay in seed germination. Since the endogenous ABA level is controlled by the equilibrium between ABA biosynthesis and catabolism, we investigated how this equilibrium is related to the regulation of seed germination by glucose in rice. When ABA biosynthesis was inhibited by nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), an inhibitor of the ABA anabolic enzyme 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED), rice seed germination showed no response. In contrast, inhibition of ABA catabolism by diniconazole significantly arrested seed germination, suggesting that the regulation of ABA catabolism plays a major role. Further experiments indicated that the expression of OsABA8ox3, a key gene in ABA catabolism and encoding ABA 8'-hydroxylase in rice, was significantly increased during the first 6 h of imbibition, which was consistent with the decline of ABA content in the imbibed seeds. Expression of OsABA8ox genes, especially OsABA8ox2 and OsABA8ox3, was sensitively suppressed in the presence of exogenously supplied glucose. In contrast, the expression profiles of OsNCED genes that control the limiting step of ABA biosynthesis showed no significant changes in response to low levels of glucose. Our results demonstrated that the glucose-induced delay of seed germination is a result of the suppression of ABA catabolism rather than any enhancement of ABA biosynthesis during rice seed germination.
1920937	Low protein diet has been a very important clinical manipulation to delay the progression of chronic renal failure. However very low protein diet (less than 30 g/day) is not popular because of concern about malnutrition due to protein restriction, and the difficulty and trouble in making palatable dish. A 48 year old man with chronic renal failure has been on a 20-30 g protein-restricted diet more than three years with no remarkable defect in his daily life, with adequate nutrition, and with very enjoyable and variable daily menus. The rate of progression of chronic renal failure was markedly slowed. Serum creatinine level was 6.9 mg/dl when he started the diet control and it took more than three years for the creatinine level reached to 15.5 mg/dl with no troublesome clinical findings or symptoms. For successful protein restricted dietary treatment, the following several ideas have been helpful: promoting the patient's understanding of the disease and treatment; abundant use of specifically made low protein, high caloric foods such as starch noodles and rice; adoption of creative menus for the patient; and using a free diet a few days a month. The results indicate that we have to again consider the effect of the very low protein (30-20 g/day) diet in slowing the progression of chronic renal failure without nutritional disturbance or restriction of the patient's palatability.
19209754	In 2002, the total malaria burden in Afghanistan was estimated to be 3 million cases annually, mainly from Takhar and Kunduz Provinces. Field investigations from 2001 to 2007 revealed a rapid resurgence of Plasmodium falciparum & P. vivax malaria, with annual incidence rates between 0.0026 & 4.39, and between 0.88 & 13.37 episodes/1,000 person years, respectively. Both diseases peaked during 2002, and then declined independently, indicating two differing modes of transmission and epidemiology. Although control campaigns against malaria tropica, transmitted by the freshwater breeder Anopheles superpictus, were successful, malaria tertiana remained endemic and associated with rice-growing areas, transmitted by the anthropophilic, endophilic or exophilic rice-field breeder, A. pulcherrimus and A. hyrcanus. P. vivax polymorph VK 247 prevailed in 90% of infected mosquito pools. Data documented anthropogenically induced increases in rice-field malaria tertiana in the rice-growing areas of northern Afghanistan and the need for further control strategies, including large-scale larval mosquito eradication in rice-growing areas.
19210638	We report here on the characterization of a putative Dof transcription factor gene in rice (Oryza sativa)--rice Dof daily fluctuations 1 (Rdd1). Daily oscillations in Rdd1 expression were retained after transferring to continuous dark (DD) or light (LL) conditions, indicating circadian regulation. However, Rdd1 showed arrhythmic expression in etiolated coleoptiles. Experiments revealed that the Rdd1 transcript accumulated up to 1 h after transferring from DD to LL conditions and decreased thereafter. We examined Rdd1 expression using phytochrome (phy)-deficient mutants, and the results showed that phyA and most likely phyB contributed to the regulation of Rdd1 expression. To further examine the role of Rdd1, transgenic rice plants were produced that carried Rdd1 in either a sense (RDD1-S) or antisense (RDD1-AS) orientation, driven by a constitutive promoter. The expression of endogenous Rdd1 in response to far-red light was found to be modified in RDD1-AS plants compared with wild-type (WT) or RDD1-S plants. In addition, RDD1-AS plants were smaller and flowered later than WT or RDD1-S plants; decreases in grain length, width and 1000-grain weight were also recorded. This study demonstrates that Rdd1 is a circadian clock and phy-regulated gene, which is associated with grain size in rice.
19211695	Jasmonic acid (JA) is involved in plant development and the defense response. Transgenic overexpression of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) jasmonic acid carboxyl methyltransferase gene (AtJMT) linked to the Ubi1 promoter increased levels of methyl jasmonate (MeJA) by 6-fold in young panicles. Grain yield was greatly reduced in Ubi1:AtJMT plants due to a lower numbers of spikelets and lower filling rates than were observed for nontransgenic (NT) controls. Ubi1:AtJMT plants had altered numbers of spikelet organs, including the lemma/palea, lodicule, anther, and pistil. The loss of grain yield and alteration in spikelet organ numbers were reproduced by treating NT plants with exogenous MeJA, indicating that increased levels of MeJA in Ubi1:AtJMT panicles inhibited spikelet development. Interestingly, MeJA levels were increased by 19-fold in young NT panicles upon exposure to drought conditions, resulting in a loss of grain yield that was similar to that observed in Ubi1:AtJMT plants. Levels of abscisic acid (ABA) were increased by 1.9- and 1.4-fold in Ubi1:AtJMT and drought-treated NT panicles, respectively. The ABA increase in Ubi1:AtJMT panicles grown in nondrought conditions suggests that MeJA, rather than drought stress, induces ABA biosynthesis under drought conditions. Using microarray and quantitative polymerase chain reaction analyses, we identified seven genes that were regulated in both Ubi1:AtJMT and drought-treated NT panicles. Two genes, OsJMT1 and OsSDR (for short-chain alcohol dehydrogenase), are involved in MeJA and ABA biosynthesis, respectively, in rice (Oryza sativa). Overall, our results suggest that plants produce MeJA during drought stress, which in turn stimulates the production of ABA, together leading to a loss of grain yield.
19212951	Rice is a critically important food crop plant on our planet. It is also an excellent model plant for cereal crops, and now in position to serve as a reference plant for biofuel production. Proteomics study of rice therefore is crucial to better understand "rice" as a whole. Rice proteomics has moved well beyond the initial proteome analysis in the early to late 1990s. Since the year 2000, numerous proteomic studies have been performed in rice during growth and development and against a wide variety of environmental factors. These proteomic investigations have established the high-resolution 2-D reference gels of rice tissues, organs, and organelle under normal and adverse (stressed) conditions by optimizing suitable, reproducible systems for gel, and MS-based proteomic techniques, which "rejuvenated" the rice proteome field. This constituted the "phase I" in rice proteomics, and resulted in rice being labeled as the "cornerstone" of cereal food crop proteomes. Now, we are in position to state that rice proteomics today marks the "beginning of phase II". This is due to the fact that rice researchers are capable of digging deeper into the rice proteome, mapping PTMs (in particular reversible protein phosphorylation), performing inter- and intra-species comparisons, integrating proteomics data with other "omic" technologies-generated data, and probing the functional aspect of individual proteins. These advancements and their impact on the future of rice proteomics are the focus of this review.
19212978	Several methods used for the multiresidue analysis of pesticides from the environment and drinking water have been reported. However, most of these reports dealt with a small number of targeted pesticides or some special groups. A method that is simple, faster, and more cost-effective than the environmental protection agency (EPA) method has been developed for the analysis of 82 frequently used pesticides in water samples obtained from Yeongsan and Sumjin rivers, as well as rice fields located in various locations around the two rivers. The samples were extracted by dichloromethane, and the pesticides were analyzed using a GC-electron capture detector (ECD), followed by confirmation with GC-MS. Recoveries were found to be between 82 and 120.1% for most of the tested pesticides, which were in agreement with the standard values dictated by the EPA. The method was potentially applied to 66 water samples for human consumption and 90 water samples from the rice fields and irrigation ditches that were collected from June to September 2007. Oxadiazon, butachlor, and alachlor were detected in some of the river water samples collected in June, iprobenfos (IBP) was detected in samples collected in August, and no pesticide was detected in September. On the other hand, chlorpyrifos-methyl, IBP, hexaconazole, diazinon, oxadiazon, butachlor, and isoprothiolane were detected at relatively high concentrations in 48 rice paddy field water samples collected between June and September 2007. Alachlor in one sample and procymidone in some of the rice paddy field water samples were also detected in trace amounts. The results were consistent with the temporal pattern of pesticide application in Korean rice fields.
19213154
19213246
19214435	Autophagy degrades toxic materials and old organelles, and recycles nutrients in eukaryotic cells. Whereas the studies on autophagy have been reported in other eukaryotic cells, its functioning in plants has not been well elucidated. We analyzed the roles of OsATG10 genes, which are autophagy-related. Two rice ATG10 genes - OsATG10a and OsATG10b - share significant sequence homology (about 75%), and were ubiquitously expressed in all organs examined here. GUS assay indicated that OsATG10b was highly expressed in the mesophyll cells and vascular tissue of younger leaves, but its level of expression decreased in older leaves. We identified T-DNA insertional mutants in that gene. Those osatg10b mutants were sensitive to treatments with high salt and methyl viologen (MV). Monodansylcadaverine-staining experiments showed that the number of autophagosomes was significantly decreased in the mutants compared with the WT. Furthermore, the amount of oxidized proteins increased in MV-treated mutant seedlings. These results demonstrate that OsATG10b plays an important role in the survival of rice cells against oxidative stresses.
19214515	Transformation with large DNA molecules enables multiple genes to be introduced into plants simultaneously to produce transgenic plants with complex phenotypes. In this study, a large DNA fragment (ca. 100 kb) containing a set of Aegilops tauschii hardness genes was introduced into rice plants using a novel transformation method, called bioactive beads-mediated transformation. Nine transgenic rice plants were obtained and the presence of transgenes in the rice genome was confirmed by PCR and FISH analyses. The results suggested that multiple transgenes were successfully integrated in all transgenic plants. The expression of one of the transgenes, puroindoline b, was confirmed at the mRNA and protein levels in the T(2) generation. Our study clearly demonstrates that the bioactive bead method is capable of producing transgenic rice plants carrying large DNA fragments. This method will facilitate the production of useful transgenic plants by introducing multiple genes simultaneously.
19214577	Gene duplication followed by acquisition of specific targeting information and dual targeting were evolutionary strategies enabling organelles to cope with overlapping functions. We examined the evolutionary trend of dual-targeted single-gene products in Arabidopsis and rice genomes. The number of paralogous proteins encoded by gene families and the dual-targeted orthologous proteins were analysed. The number of dual-targeted proteins and the corresponding gene-family sizes were similar in Arabidopsis and rice irrespective of genome sizes. We show that dual targeting of methionine aminopeptidase, monodehydroascorbate reductase, glutamyl-tRNA synthetase, and tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase was maintained despite occurrence of whole-genome duplications in Arabidopsis and rice as well as a polyploidization followed by a diploidization event (gene loss) in the latter.
19214759	This study was designed to investigate heavy metal (Cu, Zn, Pb, and Cd) contamination levels of soils, vegetables, and rice grown in the vicinity of the Dabaoshan mine, south China. The concentration of Cu, Zn, Pb, and Cd in paddy soil exceeded the maximum allowable concentrations for Chinese agricultural soil. The heavy metal concentrations (mg kg(-1), dry weight basis) in vegetables ranged from 5.0 to 14.3 for Cu, 34.7 to 170 for Zn, 0.90 to 2.23 for Pb, and 0.45 to 4.1 for Cd. The concentrations of Pb and Cd in rice grain exceeded the maximum permissible limits in China. Dietary intake of Pb and Cd through the consumption of rice and certain vegetable exceeded the recommended dietary allowance levels. The status of heavy metal concentrations of food crops grown in the vicinity of Dabaoshan mine and their implications for human health should be further investigated.
19214788	Monascus pilosus NBRC4520 was selected for functional fermented food inoculation for its high lovastatin and low citrinin production with a deep-red color. For koji (mold rice) with high lovastatin production, separation of the growth phase and lovastatin production phase by shifting the temperature from 30 to 23 degrees C increased lovastatin production by nearly 20 times compared to temperature-constant cultivation. In addition, citrinin was not produced even in the lovastatin production phase, although the pigment was increased. With temperature-shift cultivation, 225 microg lovastatin/g dry koji was produced in 14 days without citrinin.
19214808	Cyclophilin 2 (OsCyp2) is a cytosolic member of immunophilin family from rice. We have isolated its full length cDNA (1,056 bp) with an open reading frame of 519 bp encoding a polypeptide of 172 amino acids and an estimated pI of 8.61. Peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity of the protein was determined using N-succinyl-ala-ala-pro-phe-p-nitroanilidine as peptide substrate. It has a catalytic efficiency (K (cat)/K (m)) of 4.5 x 10(6)/(mol/l)/s, which is comparable to known cyclophilins from plants. Its activity is specifically inhibited by cyclosporin A, a macrolide drug inhibitor of cyclophilins. Transcript analysis showed it to be a developmentally and differentially regulated gene; showing changes in abundance at seedling, tillering and heading stage under non-stress and salinity stress conditions. Expression of OsCyp2 enhances the ability of Escherichia coli to survive under diverse abiotic stresses viz. salinity, high temperature, osmotic stress (mannitol) and oxidative stress (H(2)O(2)). OsCyp2 was able to complement the yeast mutant lacking native Cyp2 and also improved the growth of wild type yeast under above-mentioned stress conditions. Based on these results, we propose that OsCyp2 may serve as a 'suitable candidate' for raising transgenic plants for enhanced multiple abiotic stress tolerance.
19215594	We have isolated and characterized the 5' region of the rice actin2 gene (OsAct2), which contains 793 bp of sequence upstream of the OsAct2 transcription initiation site, 58 bp of the first non-coding exon, 1736 bp of the 5' intron and the first 8 bp (non-coding sequence) of the second exon. It was found that the 5' region of OsAct2 is an efficient gene regulatory region for driving the constitutive expression of foreign genes in transgenic rice. In situ histochemical results indicated that OsAct2::GUS (GUS, beta-glucuronidase) gene expression in transgenic rice plants is high in sporophytic and gametophytic tissues. It was demonstrated that a 2.6-kb upstream sequence of the OsAct2 translation initiation codon contains all of the 5' regulatory elements necessary for high-level gus expression in transgenic rice tissues. OsAct2 promoter activity was significantly enhanced by the deletion of a 1590-bp segment from the central region of the first intron. The +96 to +274 region of the intron negatively regulates gus expression in leaves. To identify regulatory elements within the OsAct2 promoter, nested truncations of the promoter region were made and fused to gus. The results showed that the region from -1 to -376 was sufficient for promoter activity. In addition, two OsAct2-based expression vectors for use in monocot transformation were developed to promote the high-level expression of foreign genes.
19215678	The effects of a diet containing soybean oil (SBO), rice bran oil (RBO), palm oil (PO) or a RBO/PO (3:1) mixture on the composition and oxidation of small dense low-density lipoproteins (sdLDL) in 16 hypercholesterolaemic women were investigated. During the 8-week control period, participants consumed a free-choice weight-maintaining diet comprising carbohydrate (55% energy), protein (15% energy) and fat (30% energy) with < 300 mg/day of cholesterol. During each 10-week study period, participants consumed this same diet but with the addition of one of the three test oils or the RBO/PO mixture. Total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels were significantly reduced during SBO, RBO and RBO/PO consumption, while high-density lipoprotein cholesterol was significantly decreased by SBO consumption. There was a significant reduction in sdLDL-cholesterol levels only after using SBO and it tended to be reduced during RBO/PO consumption, whereas it was significantly increased following PO consumption. The sdLDL oxidation lag time was significantly increased during PO, RBO/PO and RBO consumption, but significantly reduced following SBO. The results for the RBO/PO mixture suggest that this oil mixture might further reduce the risk of atherosclerosis.
19217306	It has been shown that mitochondria play a pivotal role in plant programmed cell death (PCD). Previous study established a salt stress-induced PCD model in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. WYJ 8th) root tip cells, demonstrated by DNA laddering, cytochrome c release, and TUNEL positive reaction. In this study, the role of mitochondria during the early phase of PCD (2h-PCD) was analyzed in rice roots. After 2h-PCD induction, the integrity of mitochondria decreased slightly, consistent with a small release of cytochrome c. 2h-PCD partially inhibited electron transport, resulting in oxidative burst in mitochondria. However, ATP production maintained constant. Mitochondria proteome were analyzed by two-dimensional IEF/SDS-PAGE before and after 2h-PCD induction, and eight PCD-related proteins were identified. Among them, four proteins were up-regulated after PCD induction, which included glycoside hydrolase, mitochondrial heat shock protein 70, 20S proteasome subunit, and Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase, and four were down-regulated, namely ATP synthase beta subunit, cytochrome c oxidase subunit 6b, S-adenosylmethionine synthetase 2, and transcription initiation factor eIF-3 epsilon. These results suggested that ATP synthase may not be the major producer of ATP in mitochondria during the early stage of PCD in rice. Glycoside hydrolase may be involved in ETC impairment and ROS burst, and mitochondrial HSP70 is a potential candidate for PCD regulation. The possible roles of other proteins on PCD initiation were also discussed.
19217549	A gene (apuA) encoding amylopullulanase from a starch-hydrolyzing lactic acid bacterium, Lactobacillus plantarum L137, which had been isolated from traditional fermented food made from fish and rice in the Philippines, was found to contain two unique amino acid repeating units in the N- and C-terminal region. The former is a six amino acid sequence (Asp-Ala/Thr-Ala-Asn-Ser-Thr) repeated 39 times, and the latter is a three amino acid sequence (Gln-Pro-Thr) repeated 50 times. To clarify the role of these repeating units, a truncated apuA in the C-terminal region was constructed and expressed in L. plantarum NCL21, which is the ApuA- derivative of strain L137. The recombinant truncated amylopullulanase (ApuADelta), which lacks the 24 kDa of the C-terminal repeat region, was purified and characterized, and compared with wild-type amylopullulanase (ApuA). The enzyme production and specific activity of ApuADelta were higher than those of ApuA. The two enzymes, ApuA and ApuADelta, showed similar pH (4.0-4.5) and temperature (40-45 degrees C) optima. However, the activity of ApuADelta was more stable in the pH and temperature than that of ApuA. The catalytic efficiencies of ApuADelta toward soluble starch, pullulan and amylose were higher than those of ApuA, although their substrate specificities towards saccharides were similar. From these results, we conclude that the C-terminal repeating region of ApuA is negatively involved in the stability of amylopullulanase and binding of substrates. Thus, the truncated amylopullulanase is more useful in processing of amylose and pullulan.
19218402	The purpose of this study was the enrichment and phylogenetic identification of bacteria that dechlorinate 4,5,6,7-tetrachlorophthalide (commercially designated "fthalide"), an effective fungicide for rice blast disease. Sequential transfer culture of a paddy soil with lactate and fthalide produced a soil-free enrichment culture (designated the "KFL culture") that dechlorinated fthalide by using hydrogen, which is produced from lactate. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA genes revealed the dominance of two novel phylotypes of the genus Dehalobacter (FTH1 and FTH2) in the KFL culture. FTH1 and FTH2 disappeared during culture transfer in medium without fthalide and increased in abundance with the dechlorination of fthalide, indicating their growth dependence on the dechlorination of fthalide. Dehalobacter restrictus TEA is their closest relative, with 97.5% and 97.3% 16S rRNA gene similarities to FTH1 and FTH2, respectively.
19218481	Lalumière, Harris, Quinsey, and Rice (2005) proposed a three-path model (psychopathy, young male syndrome, and competitive disadvantage) of the development of sexually coercive behavior, but none of these individual difference characteristics have been tested among partner rapists. Using a community sample in Study 1, the authors find that psychopathy is the only significant predictor of self-reported propensity for partner sexual coercion. This model is tested in Study 2 by comparing convicted partner rapists, nonsexual partner assaulters, and heterosexual child molesters. One third of partner rapists are psychopaths, and their psychopathy scores are no different from those found in correctional samples. Partner rapists have an average IQ, providing further evidence that competitive disadvantage is less characteristic of partner rapists. There is some indication that partner rapists desist with age. The authors discuss these findings in light of recent findings that implicate cuckoldry risk in partner sexual assault.
19218918	The question of whether RNA interference (RNAi) acts as an antiviral mechanism in mammalian cells remains controversial. The antiviral interferon (IFN) response cannot easily be distinguished from a possible antiviral RNAi pathway owing to the involvement of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) as a common inducer molecule. The non-structural protein 3 (NS3) protein of rice hoja blanca virus (RHBV) is an RNA silencing suppressor (RSS) that exclusively binds to small dsRNA molecules. Here, we show that this plant viral RSS lacks IFN antagonistic activity, yet it is able to substitute the RSS function of the Tat protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1. An NS3 mutant that is deficient in RNA binding and its associated RSS activity is inactive in this complementation assay. This cross-kingdom suppression of RNAi in mammalian cells by a plant viral RSS indicates the significance of the antiviral RNAi response in mammalian cells and the usefulness of well-defined RSS proteins.
19219052	The filamentous fungus Magnaporthe oryzae causes rice blast, the most serious disease of cultivated rice. Cellular differentiation of M. oryzae forms an infection structure called the appressorium, which generates enormous cellular turgor that is sufficient to rupture the plant cuticle. Here, we show how functional genomics approaches are providing new insight into the genetic control of plant infection by M. oryzae. We also look ahead to the key questions that need to be addressed to provide a better understanding of the molecular processes that lead to plant disease and the prospects for sustainable control of rice blast.
19219236	This was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, community-based trial. For 16 weeks, children in the intervention group (n = 180) received iron-fortified rice, while children in the control group (n = 174) received rice with placebo. Anemia was defined as hemoglobin < 11.0g/dL. Student's t-test was used to compare mean variation in hemoglobin between the groups. Hemoglobin concentration improved in both groups, with a mean increase of 0.42g/ dL in the intervention group (11.28+/-1.23g/dL to 11.75+/-1.16g/dL, p < 0.001), and 0.49g/dL in controls (11.06+/-1.13g/dL to 11.51+/-1.16g/dL, p < 0.001). Anemia decreased (p < 0.01) in both groups (37.8% to 23.3% in the intervention group and 45.4% to 33.3% in controls), with no significant difference between the two. Hemoglobin increase was significantly higher in children that received total iron = 53.76mg from fortified rice, compared to those who received less than this cut-off value (0.94g/dl vs. 0.39g/dl, p = 0.03). The findings suggest that this type of intervention can be useful in anemia control as long as fortified food intake is adequate.
19219349	The research aimed at learning food habits of adolescents from public schools in Fortaleza, CE, Brazil. Seven hundred students age ranging from 4 to 19 years-old were interviewed from twelve education institutions by means of a structured form. From the usual food consumed the energetic rice and bread were highlighted, consumed by 95.8% and 85.2% of the adolescents, respectively (p=0.0001). Within constructor food, meat and beans are ingested by 60.6% and 75.0%, respectively (p=0.0001). Regulative food like fruit and vegetables do not have a usual consumption among adolescents, since just (34.3%) and (47.6%) respectively consume them (p=0.0001 and p=0.226). An unbalance in proper nutrient ingestion for the adolescence was stated, favoring overweight and, consequently, chronic diseases like mellitus diabetes.
19219608	We investigated selective culturing conditions for the production of transgenic soybeans. In this culturing system, we used the acetolactate synthase (ALS)-inhibiting herbicide-resistance gene derived from rice (Os-mALS gene) as a selectable marker gene instead of that derived from bacteria, which interfered with the cultivation and practical usage of transgenic crops. T(1) soybeans grown from one regenerated plant after selection of the ALS-targeting pyrimidinyl carboxy (PC) herbicide bispyribac-sodium (BS) exhibited herbicide resistance, and the introduction and expression of the Os-mALS gene were confirmed by genetic analysis. The selective culturing system promoted by BS herbicide, in which the Os-mALS gene was used as a selectable marker, was proved to be applicable to the production of transgenic soybeans, despite the appearance of escaped soybean plants that did not contain the Os-mALS transgene.
19220075	In the Coleambally irrigation area (NSW, Australia), the occurrence of four tadpole and frog species in rice bays on farms growing either rice only or both rice and corn was studied over two seasons. In addition to analysis of species occurrence, both gonadal histology and assessment of Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis infection rates were performed. The rice acreage available as potential tadpole habitat was extensively distributed throughout the irrigation area, but more corn was grown in the northern region compared with the southern region. The mean abundance of Litoria raniformis tadpoles was significantly lower in the northern sites compared with the southern sites. In contrast, tadpoles of Limnodynastes fletcheri, Limnodynastes tasmaniensis, and Crinia parinsignifera had a uniform distribution across all study sites. A principal components analysis showed a relationship between farm type and the rice herbicide applied when the crops were initially sown, with sites occupied by Litoria raniformis in the beginning being predominantly rice-only farms. A discriminant analysis showed that low concentrations of the corn herbicide metolachlor and increased pH were the main variables studied that determined site occupation by L. raniformis. This suggested that farms growing only rice (and not corn) with high algal production were the preferred sites. The rates of chytrid infection and gonadal malformations were low across both regions. Histology of the gonads of metamorphs showed that L. raniformis gonadal differentiation is slow compared to that of the two Limnodynastes species. We concluded that farm practices associated with increased corn cropping in the northern region, rather than any direct effect of corn herbicides, determine the reduced presence of Litoria raniformis in the northern region.
19220793	Rapid progress has been made regarding the understanding of brassinosteroid (BR) signaling in Arabidopsis. However, little is known about BR signaling in monotyledons. Here, we characterized a rice dwarf and low-tillering (dlt) mutant and cloned the corresponding gene via map-based cloning. DLT encodes a new member of the plant-specific GRAS family. The dwarf phenotype of dlt is similar to BR-deficient or signaling mutants in rice. In addition, both lamina bending and coleoptile elongation assays show that dlt is insensitive or much less responsive to brassinolide (BL), the most active BR, suggesting that DLT is involved in BR signaling. Consistent with this conclusion, the accumulation of transcripts of BR biosynthesis genes in the dlt mutant indicated that DLT is involved in feedback inhibition of BR biosynthesis genes. In addition, transcription of several other BR-regulated genes is altered in the dlt mutant. Finally, consistent with the fact that DLT is also negatively feedback-regulated by BR treatment, a gel mobility shift assay showed that OsBZR1 can bind to the DLT promoter through the BR-response element. Taken together, these studies have enabled us to identify a new signaling component that is involved in several specific BR responses in rice.
19220929	The value of a new crop species is usually judged by the overall performance of multiple traits. Therefore, in most quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping experiments, researchers tend to collect phenotypic records for multiple traits. Some traits may vary continuously and others may vary in a discrete fashion. Although mapping QTLs jointly for multiple traits is more efficient than mapping QTLs separately for individual traits, the latter is still commonly practised in QTL mapping. This is primarily due to the lack of efficient statistical methods and computer software packages to implement the methods. Mapping multiple QTLs simultaneously in a single multivariate model has not been available, especially when categorical traits are involved. In the present study, we developed a Bayesian method to map QTLs of the entire genome for multiple traits with continuous, discrete or both types of phenotypic distribution. Instead of using the reversible jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) for model selection, we adopt a parameter shrinkage approach to estimate the genetic effects of all marker intervals. We demonstrate the method by analysing a set of simulated data with both continuous and discrete traits. We also apply the method to mapping QTLs responsible for multiple disease resistances to the blast fungus of rice. A computer program written in SAS/IML that implements the method is freely available, on request, to academic researchers.
19221880	StCDPK1 is a calcium dependent protein kinase expressed in tuberizing potato stolons and in sprouting tubers. StCDPK1 genomic sequence contains eight exons and seven introns, the gene structure is similar to Arabidopsis, rice and wheat CDPKs belonging to subgroup IIa. There is one copy of the gene per genome and it is located in the distal portion of chromosome 12. Western blot and immunolocalization assays (using confocal and transmission electron microscopy) performed with a specific antibody against StCDPK1 indicate that this kinase is mainly located in the plasma membrane of swelling stolons and sprouting tubers. Sucrose (4-8%) increased StCDPK1 protein content in non-induced stolons, however the amount detected in swelling stolons was higher. Transgenic lines with reduced expression of StCDPK1 (beta 7) did not differ from controls when cultured under multiplication conditions, but when grown under tuber inducing conditions some significant differences were observed: the beta 7 line tuberized earlier than controls without the addition of CCC (GA inhibitor), developed more tubers than wild type plants in the presence of hormones that promote tuberization in potato (ABA and BAP) and was more insensitive to GA action (stolons were significantly shorter than those of control plants). StCDPK1 expression was induced by GA, ABA and BAP. Our results suggest that StCDPK1 plays a role in GA-signalling and that this kinase could be a converging point for the inhibitory and promoting signals that influence the onset of potato tuberization.
19222023	The use of Striga-resistant germplasm is likely to be a cost-effective control strategy for preventing loss of yield owing to Striga. Previously, the authors identified quantitative trait loci (QTL) for resistance in rice to Striga hermonthica (Del.) Benth. in backcross inbred lines (BILs) derived from a cross between two cultivars Nipponbare and Kasalath. It is essential to validate QTL in different environments and/or genetic backgrounds to develop molecular markers linked to resistance QTL for use in marker-assisted selection (MAS) programmes. This study aimed to establish whether a large-effect Kasalath-derived resistance QTL allele on chromosome 4 of rice also conferred resistance in a different mapping population derived from a cross between Koshihikari and Kasalath, and to identify any further Striga resistance QTL. Three Striga resistance QTL were detected in Koshihikari-Kasalath BILs, two of which were derived from the Kasalath allele and one from the Koshihkari allele. The largest QTL (Kasalath allele) explained 16% of the variation in the mapping population and was located on chromosome 4. Comparison between these data and those of the authors' previous analysis revealed that the confidence intervals of the chromosome-4 QTL in the Nipponbare-Kasalath cross and the Kasalath-Koshihikari cross overlapped between 6.5 Mbp and 8 Mbp on the physical rice genome assembly. This study has both verified and narrowed down the position of a Striga resistance QTL of major effect, and demonstrated that it may be a tractable target for MAS.
19222028	Strigolactones released from plant roots induce seed germination of root parasitic weeds, witchweeds (Striga spp.) and broomrapes (Orobanche spp.), and hyphal branching of symbiotic arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. In addition to these functions in the rhizosphere, strigolactones have recently been shown to be a novel class of plant hormones regulating shoot outgrowth. The natural strigolactones identified so far have the common C-D ring moiety, which is thought to be the essential structure for exhibiting biological activity. The introduction of substitutions on the A-B ring moiety of 5-deoxystrigol, the basic strigolactone, affords various strigolactones, e.g. hydroxylation on C-4, C-5 and C-9 leads to orobanchol, strigol and sorgomol respectively. Then, acetylation and probably other derivatisations of these hydroxy-strigolactones would occur. Although the C-2'-(R) stereochemistry was thought to be an important structural feature for potent germination stimulation activity, 2'-epi-strigolactones were found in root exudates of tobacco, rice, pea and other plant species, indicating that at least some plants produce both epimers.
19222574	Phytoplasmas are plant pathogenic bacteria that cause devastating yield losses in diverse crops worldwide. Although the understanding of the pathogen biology is important in agriculture, the inability to culture phytoplasmas has hindered their full characterization. Previous studies demonstrated that immunodominant membrane proteins could be classified into three types, immunodominant membrane protein (Imp), immunodominant membrane protein A (IdpA), and antigenic membrane protein (Amp), and they are nonhomologous to each other. Here, cloning and sequencing of imp-containing genomic fragments were performed for several groups of phytoplasma including the aster yellows and rice yellow dwarf groups, for which an imp sequence has not previously been reported. Sequence comparison analysis revealed that Imps are highly variable among phytoplasmas, and clear positive selection was observed in several Imps, suggesting that Imp has important roles in host-phytoplasma interactions. As onion yellows (OY) phytoplasma was known to have Amp as the immunodominant membrane protein, the protein accumulation level of Imp in planta was measured compared with that of Amp. The resulting accumulation of Imp was calculated as approximately one-tenth that of Amp, being consistent with the immunodominant property of Amp in OY. It is suggested that an ancestral type of immunodominant membrane protein could be Imp, and subsequently the expression level of Amp or IdpA is increased in several phytoplasma groups.
19222576	So far, the occurrence of nitrogen-fixing Sphingomonas bacteria has been restricted to three strains of Sphingomonas azotifigens. In this work, a group of 46 Sphingomonas-like isolates, which originated from two rice varieties grown in two soils in Brazil, were characterized based on morphological, physiological and genetic analyses. The PCR genus specifically applied indicated that all 46 isolates belonged to the Sphingomonas genus and confirmed the results based on the yellow pigment of the colonies grown on potato agar medium and the BIOLOG data. It was also observed that 22 isolates are nitrogen-fixing bacteria as determined by the acetylene reduction method and confirmed by nifH gene detection. The genetic diversity based on the 16S rRNA analysis (amplified rDNA restriction analysis) showed that the isolates formed two distinct groups at a similarity value of 60%. Furthermore, five clusters at 60% similarity were observed with the 16S-23S intergenic space (ribosomal intergenic space analysis) analysis. Sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene and nifH fragments showed that most of the 22 nitrogen-fixing isolates formed clusters apart from that of the S. azotifigens. This is the first report on the occurrence of nitrogen-fixing Sphingomonas bacteria associated with rice grown in Brazil.
1922267	Commercial parboiling of rice in Sri Lanka and many south Asian countries provides ideal conditions for the occurrence of aflatoxins because the rice is steeped (allowing fermentation) thus providing ideal conditions for growth of toxigenic Aspergillus species. However the traditional 'cottage' method of parboiling rice, which does not involve steeping, appears to reduce Aspergillus growth even after long storage periods. Preferential infection of parboiled rice by Aspergillus flavus was observed. Aflatoxin contents in inoculated rice produced by commercial parboiling (AFB1 60-92 mg/kg) were significantly higher than that in inoculated 'cottage' processed rice (AFB1 12-29 micrograms/kg). The steeping (precooking/soaking) process in commercial parboiling appears to increase the susceptibility of rice grains to fungal infection. Aflatoxin content in grains increased considerably with the increase in duration of soaking. However, the addition of 10 ppm calcium hypochlorite (bleach) to soaking water appreciably reduced A. flavus contamination and subsequent aflatoxin content in parboiled rice. No significant reduction in aflatoxin levels were observed after bran removal of contaminated rice.
19222807	Engineering traits by the assembly of non-functional gene products is a promising tool for modern plant biotechnology. In this article, we describe the establishment of male sterility and herbicide resistance in wheat (Triticum aestivum) by complementing inactive precursor protein fragments through a split intein system. N- and C-terminal fragments of a barnase gene from Bacillus amyloliquifaciens were fused to intein sequences from the Synechocystis sp. gene DnaB and delivered into the wheat genome via biolistic particle bombardment. Both barnase fragments were expressed under the control of a tapetum-specific promoter. High efficiency of the split barnase system was achieved by introducing GGGGS linkers between the fusion domains of the assembled protein. Depending on the vector version that was transformed, up to 51% of primary transformed plants produced sterile pollen. In the F(1) progeny, the male-sterile phenotype segregated with both barnase gene fragments. Expression of the cytotoxic barnase in the tapetum did not apparently affect the vegetative phenotype and remained stable under increased temperatures. In addition, the reconstitution of sulphonylurea resistance was achieved by DnaE intein-mediated assembly of a mutated acetolactate synthase (ALS) protein from rice. The impacts of the technical advances revealed in this study on the concepts for trait control, transgene containment and hybrid breeding are discussed.
19223218
19223587	Excessive N fertilization in intensive agricultural areas of China has resulted in serious environmental problems because of atmospheric, soil, and water enrichment with reactive N of agricultural origin. This study examines grain yields and N loss pathways using a synthetic approach in 2 of the most intensive double-cropping systems in China: waterlogged rice/upland wheat in the Taihu region of east China versus irrigated wheat/rainfed maize on the North China Plain. When compared with knowledge-based optimum N fertilization with 30-60% N savings, we found that current agricultural N practices with 550-600 kg of N per hectare fertilizer annually do not significantly increase crop yields but do lead to about 2 times larger N losses to the environment. The higher N loss rates and lower N retention rates indicate little utilization of residual N by the succeeding crop in rice/wheat systems in comparison with wheat/maize systems. Periodic waterlogging of upland systems caused large N losses by denitrification in the Taihu region. Calcareous soils and concentrated summer rainfall resulted in ammonia volatilization (19% for wheat and 24% for maize) and nitrate leaching being the main N loss pathways in wheat/maize systems. More than 2-fold increases in atmospheric deposition and irrigation water N reflect heavy air and water pollution and these have become important N sources to agricultural ecosystems. A better N balance can be achieved without sacrificing crop yields but significantly reducing environmental risk by adopting optimum N fertilization techniques, controlling the primary N loss pathways, and improving the performance of the agricultural Extension Service.
19223856	A rice (Oryza sativa) T-DNA insertion population, which included more than 63 000 independent transgenic lines and 8 840 identified flanking sequence tags (FSTs) that were mapped onto the rice genome, was developed to systemically study the rice seed quality control. Genome-wide analysis of the FST distribution showed that T-DNA insertions were positively correlated with expressed genes, but negatively with transposable elements and small RNAs. In addition, the recovered T-DNAs were preferentially located at the untranslated region of the expressed genes. More than 11 000 putative homozygous lines were obtained through multi-generations of planting and resistance screening, and measurement of seed quality of around half of them, including the contents of starch, amylose, protein and fat, with a nondestructive near-infrared spectroscopy method, identified 551 mutants with unique or multiple altered parameters of seed quality. Analysis of the corresponding FSTs showed that genes participating in diverse functions, including metabolic processes and transcriptional regulation, were involved, indicating that seed quality is regulated by a complex network.
19224195	Increasing the water use efficiency (WUE) of our major crop species is an important target of agricultural research. Rice is a major water consumer in agriculture and it is also an attractive genetic model. We evaluated leaf-level WUE in young rice seedlings using carbon isotope discrimination (Delta(13)C) as an indicator of the trait. A survey of Delta(13)C was undertaken in 116 diverse germplasm accessions representing O. sativa, O. glaberrima and four wild Oryza species. O. sativa cultivars were classified into sub-populations based on SSR markers, and significant differences in Delta(13)C were observed among the five genetically defined groups. While individual accessions explained a greater proportion of the variation than did sub-population, indica rice varieties had the lowest Delta(13)C values overall, indicating superior WUE, while temperate japonica had the highest Delta(13)C. O sativa accessions had a similar or greater range of Delta(13)C values than wild Oryza species, while domesticated O. glaberrima had a narrower range. Correlation analysis identified leaf morphological and physiological traits that were significantly associated with Delta(13)C, including longer leaves, more drooping leaves, higher tillering ability, and lower leaf nitrogen content. These trait associations were investigated by quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping using backcross inbred lines derived from a cross between Nipponbare (temperate japonica) and Kasalath (aus). Seven QTL for Delta(13)C were identified using composite interval analysis, located in five chromosomal regions. The QTL with the largest additive effect came from Kasalath and co-localized with QTL for leaf length, tiller number and nitrogen content.
19224271	Nine diazotrophic bacteria were isolated from surface-sterilized roots and culms of wheat variety Malviya-234, which is grown with very low or no inputs of nitrogen fertilizer. Out of the nine bacteria, four showed indole acetic acid (IAA) production, and five were positive for P solubilization. One isolate, WM234C-3, showed appreciable level of nitrogenase activity, IAA production, and P solubilization ability, and was further characterized with a view to exploiting its plant growth promoting activity. Based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis, this isolate was identified as Achromobacter xylosoxidans. Diazotrophic nature of this particular isolate was confirmed by Western blot analysis of dinitrogenase reductase and amplification of nifH. Analysis of the nifH sequence showed close homology with typical diazotrophic bacteria. Endophytic nature and cross-infection ability of WM234C-3 were tested by molecular tagging with gusA fused to a constitutive promoter followed by inoculation onto rice seedlings in axenic conditions. At 21 days after inoculation, the roots showed blue staining, the most intense color being at the emergence of lateral roots and root tips. Microscopic observation confirmed colonization of gus-tagged WM234C-3 in the intercellular spaces of cortical as well as vascular zones of roots. Inoculation of gus-tagged WM234C-3 to rice plants resulted in significant increase in root/shoot length, fresh weight, and chlorophyll a content. Plant growth promoting features coupled with cross-infection ability suggest that this endophytic bacterium may be exploited as agricultural agent for various crops after a thorough and critical pathogenicity test.
19224952	OsNek3 (Oryza sativa L. NIMA-related kinase) and DCW11 encoding a mitochondrial putative protein phosphatase 2C were found in our previous microarray study as down-regulated genes in the rice CW-CMS line, which lacked pollen germination ability. Further analysis of DCW11 revealed that DCW11 is strongly correlated with CW-CMS occurrence. Here we show the relationship between OsNek3 and DCW11. OsNek3 was preferentially expressed in mature pollen. A knockout mutant with Tos17 inserted into OsNek3 did not show any pollen-defective phenotype. On the other hand, plants overexpressing OsNek3 occasionally produced a peculiar pollen structure in which the outer cell wall of four pollen grains fused together even at the mature pollen stages, which resembled that of quartet mutants in Arabidopsis. OsNek3 was shown to interact with a LIM domain-containing protein, OsPLIM2b, whose expression was strongly specific in mature pollen, suggesting that OsNek3 might play a role in pollen germination. OsNek3 was shown to be down-regulated in DCW11-knockdown lines, whereas osnek3 mutation did not result in DCW11 down-regulation. These results suggest that OsNek3 is downstream of DCW11 in retrograde signaling from the mitochondria to the nucleus and is involved in CW-CMS.
19225807	Environmental stresses limit plant growth and crop production worldwide. We attempted to isolate rice genes involved in conferring tolerance to environmental stresses by using a transgenic Arabidopsis population expressing full-length cDNAs of rice. Among these lines, a thermotolerant line, R08946, was detected. The rice cDNA inserted in R08946 encoded a NAC transcription factor, ONAC063. This protein was localized in the nucleus and showed transactivation activity at the C-terminus. ONAC063 expression was not induced by high-temperature but highly induced by high-salinity in rice roots. High-osmotic pressure and reactive oxygen species levels also induced ONAC063 expression. The seeds of ONAC063-expressing transgenic Arabidopsis showed enhanced tolerance to high-salinity and osmotic pressure. Microarray and real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses showed upregulated expression of some salinity-inducible genes, including the amylase gene AMY1, in ONAC063-expressing transgenic Arabidopsis. Thus, ONAC063 may play an important role in eliciting responses to high-salinity stress.
19226311	The cell wall and extracellular matrix in higher plants include secreted proteins that play critical roles in a wide range of cellular processes, such as structural integrity and biogenesis. Compared with the intensive cell wall proteomic studies in Arabidopsis, the list of cell wall proteins identified in monocot species is lacking. Therefore, we conducted a large-scale proteomic analysis of secreted proteins from rice. Highly purified secreted rice proteins were obtained from the medium of a suspension of callus culture and were analyzed with multidimensional protein identification technology (MudPIT). As a result, we could detect a total of 555 rice proteins by MudPIT analysis. Based on bioinformatic analyses, 27.7% (154 proteins) of the identified proteins are considered to be secreted proteins because they possess a signal peptide for the secretory pathway. Among the 154 identified proteins, 27% were functionally categorized as stress response proteins, followed by metabolic proteins (26%) and factors involved in protein modification (24%). Comparative analysis of cell wall proteins from Arabidopsis and rice revealed that one third of the secreted rice proteins overlapped with those of Arabidopsis. Furthermore, 25 novel rice-specific secreted proteins were found. This work presents the large scale of the rice secretory proteome from culture medium, which contributes to a deeper understanding of the rice secretome.
19226328	Pathogenic Vibrio cholerae cycle between the nutrient-rich human intestinal tract and nutrient-poor aquatic environments and currently few bacterial factors are known that aid in the transition between these disparate environments. We hypothesized that the ability to store carbon as glycogen would facilitate both bacterial fitness in the aquatic environment and transmission of V. cholerae to new hosts. To investigate the role of glycogen in V. cholerae transmission, we constructed mutants that cannot store or degrade glycogen. Here, we provide the first report of glycogen metabolism in V. cholerae and demonstrate that glycogen prolongs survival in nutrient-poor environments that are known ecological niches of V. cholerae, including pond water and rice-water stool. Additionally, glycogen contributes to the pathogenesis of V. cholerae in a transmission model of cholera. A role for glycogen in the transmission of V. cholerae is further supported by the presence of glycogen granules in rice-water stool vibrios from cholera patients, indicating that glycogen is stored during human infection. Collectively, our findings indicate that glycogen metabolism is critical for V. cholerae to transition between host and aquatic environments.
19226756	Fusarium species are the most frequently soil-borne fungal pathogens on crops that make high economical damages in Iran. Studies showed that Fusarium species cause significant yield losses in main crops especially potato, pea, bean, wheat, corn and rice in northwest Iran. The diseases resulted in yield losses to the extent of 30% to 70% in the fields and made economical problems for growers. Infected plants were collected and cultured common medium (PDA) and selective media (PPA, CLA) for Fusarium species after surface sterilization. The dominant species were F. solani, F. oxysporum, F. graminearum, F. moniliforme, F. sambucinum, F. culmorum, and F. equiseti in area studied. Soil solarisation method was carried at the summer season in three soil infested locations to assess the control management of the pathogens. Application of this method reduced population density of the pathogen from 1900 CFU -g/soil to 500 after 4 week. This proper method was simple, effective, non negative side and economic which can be used in nearly different farming areas at warm season.
19226803	Many insect-pests have developed resistances to pesticides. Therefore, there is always a need for new plant protection substances. For example the physically active insecticide diatomaceous earth (DE) gained much attention as an alternative insecticide in stored products. DE is a naturally occurring silica, which acts by destroying the insect's cuticle by absorbing the protective wax layer. This results in body water loss and ultimately the insect's death by desiccation. The silica-based materials tested were the commercial DE product Fossil Shield 90.0s, Advasan, and a formulation newly developed by the Urban Horticultural Department at Humboldt University, called Al-06. The trials were performed in small covered plastic boxes. Test substances were either dusted onto the surface of the boxes (E. vigintioctopunctata, S. litura) or mixed into rice medium (S. oryzae). The mortality was observed after 1, 2, 4, 7, 14, and 28 days. Untreated insects served as control. The first test series showed that some AL-06-formulations and FS90.0s were very effective against adults of S. oryzae and S. litura and larvae of E. vigintioctopunctata. For adult Epilachna beetles, we could not detect any differences between the treatments. The highest mortality rate in S. oryzae trials occurred with FS90.0s (100%) after 21 days. The same efficiency was achieved after 2 days with some AL-06 formulations against S. litura and E. vigintioctopunctata. The results of this study indicate that silica dusts can effectively control insect pests from different orders. At higher dosages, all materials resulted in higher insect mortality rates. It was also found that some substances did not perform well under higher rel. humidity; therefore, the conclusion was drawn that hydrophilic substances saturate with water from the surrounding air and lose their insecticidal efficacy. Earlier studies have proven that particles with a larger surface area are more effective than particles with smaller surfaces. As a result, the most effective substances in the field trials were the ones containing the small particles, since there is a larger surface area available to interact with the insects' cuticles. Further studies will be conducted to analyse the relevance of water saturation of substances in order to examine their effectiveness under greenhouse conditions. Greenhouse experiments are generally considered to study practicability of silica dusts in horticulture. Perhaps the silica dusts will show phytotoxic side effects.
19226804	In recent years encoding insecticidal Lectins have been suggested as one of the promising methods against insect pests and have been engineered successfully into a variety of crops including wheat, rice, tobacco and potatoes. Xerocomus chrysenteron Lectin (XCL) has a high hemagglutinating activity and results obtained from sugar specificity assay showed to have specific affinity to Galactose and N-Acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc). In previous studies, XCL was shown to have negative effects on some insect pests, including aphids. In the present study, the effects of different carbohydrates including D-glucose, D-mannose, D-galactose and GalNAc, associated with 0.1% XCL (w/v) in artificial diet was investigated to assess the evolution of the lectin toxicity toward Myzus persicae aphid during 7 days. M. persicae, a polyphagous aphid, showed no significant differences of mortality when fed with the XCL lectin associated with Glucose and Mannose or fed on XCL diet only. At the opposite, the mortality rates related to artificial diet supplemented with Galactose or GalNAc and XCL were significantly reduced. There was then a significant mortality difference between M. persicae fed on an artificial diet incorporated specific carbohydrate binding Lectin with those fed with lectin only. The potential use of this particular fungal Lectin (XCL) with more specific carbohydrate binding will be discussed in relation to the development of bio-insecticide and integrated pest management.
19227662	It is generally believed the Japanese race was formulated from multiple ethnic groups, with a strong influence from so-called "hunting people." The prohibition of a meat diet, however, was not a result of the dissemination of Buddhism, but was because of orders from the rulers at the time. Animal meat and milk are ideal protein sources for humans, which most likely contributed to the physical buildup and stamina of caucasians. Many heroes in the Japanese warring states period including Iyeyasu Tokugawa, Soun Hojo and Motonari Mori lived long with numerous offspring. In addition to good luck and inborn physical strength, it appears they were particularly careful with their daily habits including diet. Since around the Fifth Century AD, Japanese rulers began building government-run pastures in many places to raise horses and cattle, from which meat and dairy products were regularly supplied. As this episode portrays, beef-eating was practiced since ancient times, the popularity of which was so high that the Tokugawa Shogunate often attempted to control its consumption with prohibitive orders. The Imperial Court also tried to discourage a meat diet as it did not want rice-growing peasants to consume meat. Samurai, the warrior-class people, however, regularly hunted for wild animals for their own consumption. Many samurai of the warring states generally kept manufacturing facilities for weapons and armor, and such facilities regularly produced fresh meat as byproducts. A meat diet was essential for the success of warlords of the era. The production of butter, on the other hand, was introduced through Kudara in Seventh Century AD, and butter was a popular gift to provincial governors. Milk and dairy products became popular in the 15th Century along with the introduction of Christianity to Japan, and in the 18th Century, Yoshimune, the Shogun of the time, created retail stores for milk. Milk never became popular, however, probably because it does not go very well with cooked rice, the ubiquitous staple food in Japan.
19228319	Plant betaine aldehyde dehydrogenases (BADHs) have been the target of substantial research, especially during the last 20 years. Initial characterisation of BADH as an enzyme involved in the production of glycine betaine (GB) has led to detailed studies of the role of BADH in the response of plants to abiotic stress in vivo, and the potential for transgenic expression of BADH to improve abiotic stress tolerance. These studies have, in turn, yielded significant information regarding BADH and GB function. Recent research has identified the potential for BADH as an antibiotic-free marker for selection of transgenic plants, and a major role for BADH in 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline-based fragrance associated with jasmine and basmati style aromatic rice varieties.
19228340	Most aerial parts of the plant body are products of the continuous activity of the shoot apical meristem (SAM). Leaves are the major component of the aerial plant body, and their temporal and spatial distribution mainly determines shoot architecture. Here we report the identification of the rice gene PLASTOCHRON3 (PLA3)/GOLIATH (GO) that regulates various developmental processes including the rate of leaf initiation (the plastochron). PLA3/GO encodes a glutamate carboxypeptidase, which is thought to catabolize small acidic peptides and produce small signaling molecules. pla3 exhibits similar phenotypes to pla1 and pla2- a shortened plastochron, precocious leaf maturation and rachis branch-to-shoot conversion in the reproductive phase. However, in contrast to pla1 and pla2, pla3 showed pleiotropic phenotypes including enlarged embryo, seed vivipary, defects in SAM maintenance and aberrant leaf morphology. Consistent with these pleiotropic phenotypes, PLA3 is expressed in the whole plant body, and is involved in plant hormone homeostasis. Double mutant analysis revealed that PLA1, PLA2 and PLA3 are regulated independently but function redundantly. Our results suggest that PLA3 modulates various signaling pathways associated with a number of developmental processes.
19229478	The plant-specific tyramine derivatives, feruloyltyramine (FT) and 4-coumaroyltyramine (CT), represent bioactive compounds found at low levels in many plant species. We generated transgenic rice seeds that produce high levels of CT (14 microg g(-1) seeds) and FT (2.7 microg g(-1) seeds) through the dual expression of tyramine N-hydroxycinnamoyltransferase and tyrosine decarboxylase, using the self-processing foot-and-mouth disease virus 2A sequence and the endosperm-specific prolamin promoter.
19229638	Metallothioneins (MTs) are small, cysteine-rich, metal-binding proteins that may be involved in metal homeostasis and detoxification in both plants and animals. OsMT1a, encoding a type 1 metallothionein, was isolated via suppression subtractive hybridization from Brazilian upland rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Iapar 9). Expression analysis revealed that OsMT1a predominantly expressed in the roots, and was induced by dehydration. Interestingly, the OsMT1a expression was also induced specifically by Zn(2+) treatment. Both transgenic plants and yeasts harboring OsMT1a accumulated more Zn(2+) than wild type controls, suggesting OsMT1a is most likely to be involved in zinc homeostasis. Transgenic rice plants overexpressing OsMT1a demonstrated enhanced tolerance to drought. The examination of antioxidant enzyme activities demonstrated that catalase (CAT), peroxidase (POD) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) were significantly elevated in transgenic plants. Furthermore, the transcripts of several Zn(2+)-induced CCCH zinc finger transcription factors accumulated in OsMT1a transgenic plants, suggesting that OsMT1a not only participates directly in ROS scavenging pathway but also regulates expression of the zinc finger transcription factors via the alteration of Zn(2+) homeostasis, which leads to improved plant stress tolerance.
19230573	The geographical information system (GIS) and available survey data (both from the Filariasis Annual Reports, 1985-1999 and from the published literature) for the microfilarial infection rates are used to develop the first subdistrict-level endemicity maps of lymphatic filariasis in Narathiwat Province. The maps demonstrated the subdistrict-level geographical distribution of filariasis and the subdistricts at varied degrees of infection rate. The maps also indicate that, since 1985, there was a marked decrease in endemicity at the subdistrict level and in some areas, the infection rates were zero. However, transmission remained in the subdistricts surrounding peat swamp forest (Su-ngai Padi, Paluru, Puyo, Pasemat, Bang Khunthong, and Phron subdistricts). The house locations of infected cases, as well as the vector breeding places were geo-registered and placed as symbolic dots on the base maps obtained from Landsat's Thematic Mapper (TM) 5 and the land use map of Narathiwat to display the distribution of filariasis foci. Of 102 houses mapped, there were 40 houses in primary peat swamp forest (39.22%), 26 in rice fields (25.49%), 15 in fruit orchards (14.70%), 10 in coconut fields (9.80%) and others (10.78%). All the houses were close to the larval habitats presented in the survey. A 2-km buffer zone around the conservation boundary of primary peat swamp forest was created to locate risk areas of filariasis transmission. The buffer zone covered an area of 544.11 km2 and included 88.89% of the houses of infected cases found in 2002. It was able to identify 54 villages located in the buffer area, which might help in the determination of resource needs and resource allocation for filariasis control in Narathiwat Province.
19230745	A better understanding of the factors that contribute to the overall grain quality of rice (Oryza sativa) will lay the foundation for developing new breeding and selection strategies for combining high quality, with high yield. This is necessary to meet the growing global demand for high quality rice while offering producing countries additional opportunities for generating higher export revenues. Several recent developments in genetics, genomics, metabolomics and phenomics are enhancing our understanding of the pathways that determine several quality traits. New research strategies, as well as access to the draft of the rice genome, will not only advance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms that lead to quality rice but will also pave the way for efficient and targeted grain improvement.
19231721	To identify dietary patterns in pregnancy and describe their relationship with sociodemographic factors, smoking, and body mass index. As a secondary objective, intakes were evaluated relative to current dietary recommendations for pregnant women. Cross-sectional assessment of dietary intakes in 473 pregnant women from the Island of Menorca (Spain) was performed. Dietary patterns were identified using a principal components analysis, and dietary quality was assessed by comparing food group intakes with recommended intakes in pregnancy. Two dietary patterns were identified, one characterized by high intakes of energy-dense foods and low intakes of fruits and vegetables (<caloric>), and the other by high intakes of vegetables, legumes, fish, meat, rice and pasta (<healthy>). Scores for the caloric pattern were higher in immigrants, smokers, parous women and women with only primary school education (p<0,05). Scores for the healthy pattern were higher in women originally from other parts of Spain and immigrants (p<0,05). No associations were found with the remaining variables. Adherence to dietary recommendations was high for fruit, meat and especially dairy products, while intakes of vegetables, cereals and legumes were only one-third of recommended levels. Dietary patterns during pregnancy were similar to previously reported patterns in the general population, showing consistent associations with sociodemographic factors and smoking. There were substantial deficiencies in intakes of cereals, legumes and vegetables in all women, suggesting the need for educational interventions and monitoring during prenatal care to improve the quality of dietary habits during pregnancy.
19231859	2-Furanmethanethiol, a compound contained in many kinds of food, was identified for the first time in five types of miso fermented soybean paste (red salty rice miso, thin-colored salty rice miso, weak salty rice miso, barley miso, and soy miso) by specific extraction of volatile thiols using p-hydroxymercuribenzoate. In the triangle test with red salty rice miso, which included a higher concentration of 2-furanmethanethiol, and thin-colored salty rice miso, which included a lower concentration of 2-furanmethanethiol, it was shown that the aroma of thin-colored salty rice miso was similar to that of red salty rice miso by adding 2-furanmethanethiol into thin-colored salty rice miso. In addition, a quantitative descriptive analysis (QDA) clearly shows that 2-furanmethanethiol contributed to the intensity of three odor qualities "thick, complex", "sweet", and "pleasant aroma like coffee beans" in six odor qualities and was a very important component of miso aroma.
19232050	In this study, we cloned the OsHAL3 gene from rice Oryza sativa. Alignment analysis revealed that OsHAL3 has a high sequence identity to Dfp protein in Escherichia coli and AtHAL3a protein in Arabidopsis thaliana, which have 4'-phosphopantothenoylcysteine decarboxylase (PPC-DC) activity. OsHAL3 can complement mutation in the E. coli dfp gene encoding PPC-DC, so that the mutant strains with OsHAL3 can grow on rich media at 42 degrees C and on VB minimal media at 30 degrees C. Complementation tests with point mutations of OsHAL3 suggested that the conserved Cys176 residue of OsHAL3 is a key active-site residue. The mutant OsHAL3 G180A has a partly reduced activity. Related mRNA-level analysis showed that the OsHAL3 gene is induced by calcium pantothenate in rice.
19232310	Green-revertible albino is a novel type of chlorophyll deficiency in rice (Oryza sativa L.), which is helpful for further research in chlorophyll synthesis and chloroplast development to illuminate their molecular mechanism. In the previous study, we had reported a single recessive gene, gra(t), controlling this trait on the long arm of chromosome 2. In this paper, we mapped the gra(t) gene using 1,936 recessive individuals with albino phenotype in the F(2) population derived from the cross between themo-photoperiod-sensitive genic male-sterile (T/PGMS) line Pei'ai 64S and the spontaneous mutant Qiufeng M. Eventually, it was located to a confined region of 42.4 kb flanked by two microsatellite markers RM2-97 and RM13553. Based on the annotation results of RiceGAAS system, 11 open reading frames (ORFs) were predicted in this region. Among them, ORF6 was the most possible gene related to chloroplast development, which encoded the chloroplast protein synthesis elongation factor Tu in rice. Therefore, we designated it as the candidate gene of gra(t). Sequence analysis indicated that only one base substitution C to T occurred in the coding region, which caused a missense mutation (Thr to Ile) in gra(t) mutant. These results are very valuable for further study on gra(t) gene.
19232772	Momilactone A and B have been found only in rice and the moss, Hypnum plumaeforme, although both plants are taxonomically quite distinct. The endogenous concentrations of momilactone A and B in H. plumaeforme were 58.7 and 24.3 microg/g dry weight, respectively. UV-irradiation increased the concentrations of momilactone A and B. The concentrations of momilactone A and B, respectively, became 14- and 15-fold greater than those of non-UV-irradiated control. CuCl2 and FeCl2 (1 mmol/L) treatments also increased momilactone A and B concentrations by 2.7- to 6.1-fold and 2.9- to 6.3-fold, respectively. In addition, the protein phosphatase inhibitor, cantharidin, and jasmonic acid increased momilactone A and B concentrations in H. plumaeforme. Cantharidin acts as an elicitor and jasmonic acid is an important signaling molecule regulating inducible defense genes against the pathogen infection. Momilactone A and B, respectively, were increased 12- and 11-fold by 200 micromol/L cantharidin, and 14- and 15-fold by 100 micromol/L jasmonic acid compared with non-treated controls. As momilactone A and B are phytoalexins, these compounds may play an important role in defense responses against biotic and abiotic stress conditions in H. plumaeforme.
19233306	Nitric oxide (NO) is a bioactive gaseous, multifunctional molecule playing a central role and mediating a variety of physiological processes and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses including heavy metals. The present study investigated whether NO applied exogenously as sodium nitroprusside (SNP) has any protective role against arsenic (As) toxicity in Oryza sativa (rice). Treatment with 50 microM SNP (a NO donor) significantly ameliorated the As-induced (25 or 50 microM) decrease in root and coleoptile length of rice. Further, As-induced oxidative stress measured in terms of malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide ion (O(2)(-)), root oxidizability and H2O2 content was lesser upon supplementation of NO. It indicated a reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging activity of NO. NO addition reversed (only partially) the As-induced increase in activities of antioxidant enzymes - superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, guaiacol peroxidase, and catalase. The study concludes that exogenous NO provides resistance to rice against As-toxicity and has an ameliorating effect against As-induced stress.
19233441	Tuberonic acid (12-hydroxy epi-jasmonic acid, TA) and its glucoside (TAG) were isolated from potato leaflets (Solanumtuberosum L.) and shown to have tuber-inducing properties. The metabolism of jasmonic acid (JA) to TAG in plant leaflets, and translocation of the resulting TAG to the distal parts, was demonstrated in a previous study. It is thought that TAG generated from JA transmits a signal from the damaged parts to the undamaged parts by this mechanism. In this report, the metabolism of TA in higher plants was demonstrated using [12-(3)H]TA, and a glucosyltransferase active toward TA was purified from the rice cell cultures. The purified protein was shown to be a putative salicylic acid (SA) glucosyltransferase (OsSGT) by MALDI-TOF-MS analysis. Recombinant OsSGT obtained by overexpression in Escherichia coli was active not only toward TA but also toward SA. The OsSGT characterized in this research was not specific, but this is the first report of a glucosyltransferase active toward TA. mRNA expressional analysis of OsSGT and quantification of TA, TAG, SA and SAG after mechanical wounding indicated that OsSGT is involved in the wounding response. These results demonstrated a crucial role for TAG not only in potato tuber formation, but also in the stress response in plants and that the SA glucosyltransferase can work for TA glucosylation.
19233746	The cryIAc and sck genes were introduced to the rice for the purpose of improving the insect resistance. Metabolic profiles of wild and transgenic rice were compared to assess the unintended effects related to gene modification. Wild samples with different sowing dates or sites were also examined to determine the environmental effects on metabolites. The polar compounds of grains were extracted, trimethylsilylated and analyzed by gas chromatography-flame ionization detection (GC-FID). Partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) and principal component analysis (PCA) were applied to differentiate transgenic and wild rice grains. The significantly distinguishable metabolites were picked out, and then identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). It was found that both the environment and gene manipulation had remarkable impacts on the contents of glycerol-3-phosphate, citric acid, linoleic acid, oleic acid, hexadecanoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxypropyl ester, sucrose, 9-octadecenoic acid (Z)-, 2,3-dihydroxypropyl ester and so on. Sucrose, mannitol and glutamic acid had a significant increase in transgenic grains in contrast to those in non-genetically modified (GM) rice.
19234555	Leaf sheath color plays an important role as a marker for rice genetic improvement. A recombinant inbred line (RIL) population consisting of 220 individuals was developed from a cross between an Oryza sativa subsp. indica variety, IRBB60, and an Oryza sativa subsp. japonica variety, 9407. Within the RIL population, a line, RI51, was found to have purple leaf sheath (PSH). To map the gene governing PSH, RI51 was crossed with 9407 green leaf sheath (GSH) to develop an F2 segregating population. The distribution of F2 plants with PSH and GSH fitted a segregation ratio of 3:1, indicating that the PSH was controlled by a major dominant gene. The gene locus for PSH, tentatively designated as PSH1(t), was identified by surveying two bulks made of the respective 40 individuals with PSH and GSH with SSR markers covering the entire rice genome. The survey indicated that the PSH1(t) region was located on chromosome 1. Further confirmation was made using a large random sample of 360 individuals from the same F2 population and the PSH1(t) locus was then mapped on chromosome 1 between SSR markers RM3475 and RM7202 with genetic distances of 2.0 and 1.1 cM, respectively. For fine mapping of PSH1(t), a large F(2:3) segregating population with 3300 individuals from the seven heterozygous F2 plants in the RM3475-RM7202 region was constructed. Analysis of recombinants in the PSH1(t) region anchored the gene locus to an interval of 23.5 kb flanked by the left marker L03 and the right marker L05. Sequence analysis of this fragment predicted six open reading frames encoding a putative trans-sialidase, a putative Plastidic ATP/ADP-transporter, and four unknown proteins. The detailed genetic and physical maps of the PSH1(t) locus will be very useful in molecular cloning of the PSH1(t) gene.
19234558	The TATA box is one of the best characterized transcription factor binding sites. However, it is not a ubiquitous element of core promoters, and other sequence motifs such as Y Patches seem to play a major role in plants. Here, we present a first genome-wide computational analysis of the TATA box and Y Patch distribution in rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica) promoter sequences. Utilizing a probabilistic sequence model, we ascertain that only approximately 19% of rice genes possess the TATA box, but approximately 50% contain one or more Y Patches in their core promoters. By computational processing of identified elements, we generated extended TATA box and Y Patch nucleotide frequency matrices capable of predicting these motifs in plants with a high degree of confidence.
19234674	Polyamines are known to play important roles in plant stress tolerance but it has been difficult to determine precise functions for each type of polyamine and their interrelationships. To dissect the roles of putrescine from the higher polyamines spermidine and spermine, we generated transgenic rice plants constitutively expressing a heterologous S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) gene from Datura stramonium so that spermidine and spermine levels could be investigated while maintaining a constant putrescine pool. Whereas transgenic plants expressing arginine decarboxylase (ADC) produced higher levels of putrescine, spermidine and spermine, and were protected from drought stress, transgenic plants expressing SAMDC produced normal levels of putrescine and showed drought symptoms typical of wild type plants under stress, but the transgenic plants showed a much more robust recovery on return to normal conditions (90% full recovery compared to 25% partial recovery for wild type plants). At the molecular level, both wild type and transgenic plants showed transient reductions in the levels of endogenous ADC1 and SAMDC mRNA, but only wild type plants showed a spike in putrescine levels under stress. In transgenic plants, there was no spike in putrescine but a smooth increase in spermine levels at the expense of spermidine. These results confirm and extend the threshold model for polyamine activity in drought stress, and attribute individual roles to putrescine, spermidine and spermine.
19235197
19235272	Drought, flood, salinity, or a combination of these limits rice production. Several rice varieties are well known for their tolerance to specific abiotic stresses. We determined genetic relationship among 12 rice varieties including 9 tolerant to drought, flood, or salinity using inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers. Based on all markers, the nine tolerant varieties formed one cluster distinct from the cluster of three control varieties. The salt-tolerant varieties were closest to two flood-tolerant varieties, and together they were distinct from the drought-tolerant varieties. (GA)(8)YG was the most informative primer, showing the highest polymorphic information content (PIC) and resolving power (Rp). The drought-, flood-, and salt-tolerant varieties grouped in three distinct clusters within the group of tolerant varieties, when (GA)(8)YG was used. Sabita was the only exception. The two aus varieties, Nagina22 and FR13A, were separated and grouped with the drought- and flood-tolerant varieties, respectively, but they were together in dendrograms based on other primers. The results show that ISSR markers associated with (GA)(8)YG delineated the three groups of stress-tolerant varieties from each other and can be used to identify genes/new alleles associated with the three abiotic stresses in rice germplasm.
19236176	ABSTRACT Genetically modified rice that incorporates twofold to threefold increased amounts of iron is being developed. The product could provide improved nutrition to iron-deficient persons but may be a health hazard to large numbers of humans who are prone to iron overload. Clinical disorders such as African siderosis, beta-thalassemia, hemochromatosis, and alcoholic siderosis are of special concern. Conditions associated with iron loading include fatigue and depression; arthritis; endocrine disorders such as stunted growth, impotence, and diabetes; gastrointestinal maladies; infections and malignancies; several neurological diseases; and, not least, cardiovascular system decay. Therefore, it would be prudent to label sacks of iron-enriched rice to indicate that "this product may be dangerous to persons with iron loading conditions".
19236476	The wild progenitors of cultivated rice, Oryza nivara and Oryza rufipogon, provide an experimental system for characterizing the genetic basis of adaptation. The evolution of annual O. nivara from a perennial ancestor resembling its sister species, O. rufipogon, was associated with an ecological shift from persistently wet to seasonally dry habitats. Here we report a quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis of phenotypic differentiation in life history, mating system, and flowering time between O. nivara and O. rufipogon. The exponential distribution of effect sizes of QTL fits the prediction of a recently proposed population genetic model of adaptation. More than 80% of QTL alleles of O. nivara acted in the same direction of phenotypic evolution, suggesting that they were fixed under directional selection. The loss of photoperiod sensitivity, which might be essential to the survival of the ancestral populations of O. nivara in the new environment, was controlled by QTL of relatively large effect. Mating system evolution from cross- to self-fertilization through the modification of panicle and floral morphology was controlled by QTL of small-to-moderate effect. The lack of segregation of the recessive annual habit in the F(2) mapping populations suggested that the evolution of annual from perennial life form had a complex genetic basis. The study captured the genetic architecture for the adaptive origin of O. nivara and provides a foundation for rigorous experimental tests of population genetic theories of adaptation.
19238232	The Plant Genetic Map Database (PlantGM) has been developed as a web-based system which provides information about genetic markers in rice (Oryza sativa) and Chinese cabbage (Brassica rapa). The database has three major parts and functions; (1) Map Search, (2) Marker Search, and (3) QTL Search. At present, the database provides characterization information for about 3258 genetic markers. It has 2800 RFLP and 112 QTL markers related to rice in addition to 321 RFLP and 25 PCR-based markers for Chinese cabbage. In addition, a genetic linkage map was also constructed by using 1,054 markers from 2,912 markers in rice. The database is available for free at http://www.niab.go.kr/nabic/PlantGM.
19238621	A survey was undertaken of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), B2 (AFB2), G1 (AFG1), G2 (AFG2), ochratoxin A (OTA), and fumonisin B1 (FB1), B2 (FB2) and B3 (FB3) contamination of various retail foods in Japan during 2004-05. The mycotoxins were analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) or high-performance thin-layer chromatography (HPTLC). Aflatoxins (AFs) were detected in ten of 21 peanut butter and in 22 of 44 bitter chocolate samples; the highest level of AFB1, 2.59 microg kg(-1), was found in peanut butter. Aflatoxin contamination was not observed in corn products (n = 55), corn (n = 110), peanuts (n = 120), buckwheat flour (n = 23), dried buckwheat noodles (n = 59), rice (n = 83) or sesame oil (n = 20). OTA was detected in 120 out of 192 samples of oatmeal, wheat flour, rye, buckwheat flour, raw coffee, roasted coffee, raisin, beer, wine and bitter chocolate, but not in rice or corn products. OTA levels in the positive samples were below 13 microg kg(-1). AFs and OTA intakes through the consumption of foods containing cacao were estimated using the data for mycotoxin contamination in bitter chocolate and those for the consumption of foods containing cacao in Japan.
19238851	With rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar 3694 Fan as test material, and by using open top chambers, the effects of different ozone (O3) concentration on the leaf soluble protein content, lipid peroxidation, and antioxidant system were applied. Three treatments were applied, i.e., charcoal-filtered air (CF, 20 nl O3 x L(-1)), non-filtered ambient air (NF, 40 nl O3 x L(-1)), and elevated O3 (EO, 75 nl O3 x L(-1)). The results showed that there were no significant differences in the test variables between treatments CF and NF. Compared with CF, EO induced a significant decrease of soluble protein content and significant increases of H2O2 and ASA contents and SOD, CAT and POD activities. In treatment EO, the SOD, CAT and POD activities increased by 93.7%, 39.9% and 312.4%, respectively, as compared with treatment CF, while the APX activity tended to increase at first and decrease then. MDA content had no significant differences among the treatments, indicating that leaf antioxidant system could significantly prevent the lipid peroxidation induced by elevated O3, and rice cultivar 3694 Fan could resist O3 to some extent.
19238853	By using FACE system, the microclimate in rice canopy and related physiological indices were observed continuously from the elongation to the maturing stage of rice growth, and the effects of FACE on the rice canopy evapotranspiration and water use efficiency were studied and simulated with energy balance analysis. The results showed that using P-M equation to describe the quantitative relationships of rice leaf stomatal conductance with photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and vapour pressure deficit (VPD) could better simulate rice canopy evapotranspiraton under FACE and ambient conditions. During observation period, the total water use of rice in FACE plot had a 10 mm decrease, compared with that in control plot. Considering of the 12% increase of total biomass, the water use efficiency of rice under FACE condition was increased by 12%.
19239124	Differential display gels were run for the drought tolerant (N-22) and drought susceptible (Panidhan) genotypes of rice (Oryza sativa) to identify the genes showing differential expression with respect to moisture stress. Differential cDNA products were cloned in PCR-Trap vector and analyzed for differential expression by Northern hybridization. Two clones namely R4A and R7G were found to be associated with water deficit stress (WDS). Sequencing revealed an insert of 244 bp in the clone R4A. BLASTN and FASTA results showed that R4A had maximum homology with a full-length cDNA clone: 002-110-H10 and OSJNBa006109.12 protein. GO classification suggested that it had beta-glucosidase motif which had been implicated in ABA mobilization and thereby ABA dependent gene expression.
19239285	The unimolecular reaction of decomposition of SiH(4) to SiH(2) and H(2) and the bimolecular reaction between SiH(3) and H were investigated by solving the master equation using a stochastic kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) approach. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) microcanonical kinetic constants were determined using classic transition state theory for the reaction of decomposition to SiH(2) and H(2) and microcanonical J-resolved variational transition state theory for decomposition to SiH(3) and H. Structures of reactants and transition states were determined at the B3LYP/aug-cc-pVTZ level, while energies were calculated at the CCSD(T) level and extended to the complete basis set limit. Unimolecular kinetic constants were directly computed from the results of KMC simulations using a new algorithm while bimolecular rate constants were calculated from stochastic reaction probabilities. The simulation results are in good agreement with experimental data for the unimolecular decomposition of SiH(4), which is in the falloff regime in the temperature (1100-1700 K) and pressure (10(-3)-10(1) bar) range investigated. The calculated high and low pressure limit kinetic constants for SiH(4) decomposition to SiH(2) and H(2) are k(infinity)=1.2x10(13)T(0.477) exp(-28 988/T) and k(0)=1.4x10(42)T(-7.245) exp(-33 153/T). The calculated Troe falloff parameter is F(cent)=0.979 exp(-T/1427)+0.021 exp(T/1489). The rate of the bimolecular reaction between SiH(3) and H to give SiH(2) and H(2) is pressure independent between 10(-3) and 100 bar and slightly temperature dependent between 300 and 2000 K. The kinetic constant interpolated in this temperature and pressure range is 6.9x10(11)T(0.736) exp(134.8/T(K)) cm(3) mol(-1) s(-1), which is among the highest values proposed in the literature for this process.
19239320	BioBran, enzymatically modified arabinoxylan from rice bran was tested for its possible effects on in vitro maturation of human dendritic cells (DC). Immature DC (iDC) derived from plastic-adhered, IL-4 and GM-CSF treated peripheral monocytes (Mo) were further cultured with cytokine maturation mix 1 (CMM1; TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6) or CMM2 (LPS and IFN-gamma) to induce their maturation into mature DC (matDC1 or matDC2, respectively). Different concentrations of BioBran (10, 100, 400 and 1000 microg/ml) were applied in the presence or absence of relevant CMM to assess the effects of BioBran on DC maturation processes. BioBran induced maturation of iDC, as these cells cultured with IL-4/GM-CSF/BioBran down-regulated CD14 and CD1a antigens on cell surface and significantly increased expression of maturation marker CD83. The increase of surface density of costimulatory molecules CD80 and CD86 on iDC in the presence of BioBran was also observed. In addition, BioBran induced functional maturation of iDC, confirmed by decreased endocytic activity of iDC. Further emore, BioBran enhanced maturation potential of cytokine mixes, as both matDC1 and matDC2 exposed to BioBran completely lost CD14 and upregulated CD83, CD80 and CD86 antigens, in comparison to DC matured with the relevant CMM alone. BioBran also increased CD123 antigen expression on all DC subsets. Interestingly, matDC2 matured in the presence of BioBran (400microg/ml) expressed higher levels of CD123 and lower levels of CD11c cell surface antigens, the phenotype represented by CD11cdim CD123bright plasmacytoid DC population. These data demonstrate that BioBran is a potent enhancer of DC maturation and suggest that BioBran might be a useful agent to create the environment that favours DC maturation. Dendritic cell, maturation, BioBran, buffy coat.
19239979	The adaptability of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and yeasts to sourdoughs prepared from cereals, pseudocereals and cassava was investigated using PCR-DGGE and bacteriological culture combined with rRNA gene sequence analysis. Sourdoughs were prepared either from flours of the cereals wheat, rye, oat, barley, rice, maize, and millet, or from the pseudocereals amaranth, quinoa, and buckwheat, or from cassava, using a starter consisting of various species of LAB and yeasts. Doughs were propagated until a stable microbiota was established. The dominant LAB and yeast species were Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillus paralimentarius, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus pontis, Lactobacillus spicheri, Issatchenkia orientalis and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The proportion of the species within the microbiota varied. L. paralimentarius dominated in the pseudocereal sourdoughs, L. fermentum, L. plantarum and L. spicheri in the cassava sourdough, and L. fermentum, L. helveticus and L. pontis in the cereal sourdoughs. S. cerevisiae constituted the dominating yeast, except for quinoa sourdough, where I. orientalis also reached similar counts, and buckwheat and oat sourdoughs, where no yeasts could be detected. To assess the usefulness of competitive LAB and yeasts as starters, the fermentations were repeated using flours from rice, maize, millet and the pseudocereals, and by starting the dough fermentation with selected dominant strains. At the end of fermentation, most of starter strains belonged to the dominating microbiota. For the rice, millet and quinoa sourdoughs the species composition was similar to that of the prior fermentation, whereas in the other sourdoughs, the composition differed.
19240804	How defense genes originated with the evolution of their specific pathogen-responsive traits remains an important problem. It is generally known that a form of duplication can generate new genes, suggesting that a new gene usually evolves from an ancestral gene. However, we show that a new defense gene in plants may evolve by de novo origination, resulting in sophisticated disease-resistant functions in rice. Analyses of gene evolution showed that this new gene, OsDR10, had homologs only in the closest relative, Leersia genus, but not other subfamilies of the grass family; therefore, it is a rice tribe-specific gene that may have originated de novo in the tribe. We further show that this gene may evolve a highly conservative rice-specific function that contributes to the regulation difference between rice and other plant species in response to pathogen infections. Biologic analyses including gene silencing, pathologic analysis, and mutant characterization by transformation showed that the OsDR10-suppressed plants enhanced resistance to a broad spectrum of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae strains, which cause bacterial blight disease. This enhanced disease resistance was accompanied by increased accumulation of endogenous salicylic acid (SA) and suppressed accumulation of endogenous jasmonic acid (JA) as well as modified expression of a subset of defense-responsive genes functioning both upstream and downstream of SA and JA. These data and analyses provide fresh insights into the new biologic and evolutionary processes of a de novo gene recruited rapidly.
19240826	Primary synovial osteochondromatosis is an unusual condition, which generally involves otherwise normal joints. Joints commonly affected in descending order of frequency are knee, hip, glenohumeral joint, elbow and ankle, though any articulation may be involved. Synovial osteochondromatosis has been also encountered in tendon sheaths and periarticular bursa. We report a case with the clinical findings, radiographic features, surgical and histological data of primary subacromial-subdeltoid bursa synovitis. X-ray radiographs of the right glenohumeral joint as well as CT and MRI of the right shoulder zone were performed. A soft tissue mass around the lateral margin of the proximal humerus without evidence of any calcification/ossification or erosion of the adjacent cortex was detected on both X-Rays and CT images. Multiple nodules of almost equal size appeared that were isointense on T1-weighted spin-echo images and slightly hyperintense on T2 weighted spin-echo images compared with the signal intensity of the surrounding skeletal muscles. The main differential diagnosis was pigmented villonodular synovitis, rheumatoid arthritis with rice bodies and secondary synovial osteochondromatosis. Based on the results of all modalities the diagnosis of primary synovial chondromatosis of subdeltoid/ subacromial bursa was concluded.
19241579	A 3-component mixture experiment was used to optimize the formulation of broken-rice based snack fortified with protein and fiber based on consumer sensory acceptability. Soy protein isolate and guar gum were used as a good source of protein and fiber, respectively, according to DRV (daily reference value) based on a 2000-calorie diet. A consumer panel evaluated sensory acceptability of color, crispness, and flavor, and overall liking of 12 experimental broken-rice based snack formulations. Predicted models derived from the restricted nonintercept regression analysis were used to plot mixture response surfaces (MRS) of each sensory attribute. Areas within the MRS plots having predicted acceptability scores of at least 6.5 (on a 9-point hedonic scale) for color, crispness, flavor, and overall liking were selected to derive a predicted optimum formulation range. Flavor acceptability was a limiting factor in attaining the optimum formulation range, which consisted of 40% to 48% broken-rice flour, 8% to 16% guar gum, and 20% to 33% soy protein isolate. To verify the obtained predicted models, the formulation containing 48% broken-rice flour, 8% guar gum, and 20% soy protein isolate, which was located in the optimum area, was chosen to support our effort to utilize and add value to broken rice. Selected physicochemical measurements of the chosen optimized formulation were determined. One serving size (30 g) of the chosen optimized snack product provided 6.58 g protein and 3.80 g dietary fiber, which met the US FDA definition of a good source of protein and dietary fiber.
19241886	Muscle injury represents the highest proportion of sport-linked contusions. Experimental and clinical studies aim at increasingly detailed recognition of muscle physiology and pathophysiology. It would allow to set up functional standards and permit to minimize risk of contusions associated with sport activities. In cases of such contusions it would restrict its sequele and would abbreviate the duration of treatment. In the study elements of prophylaxis, treatment and rehabilitation of injured muscles will be discussed, based on current scientific results. Review study includes data from studies investigating prophylactic activities, types of teratment and the effects of different rehabilitation strategy. Latest standards from First European Congress of Football Medicine, Munich 2004, were also taken into account. The prophylactic activities should focus on education attempting to popularize the knowledge of the role of warm-up activities which precede proper physical effort, muscle stretching and activities augmenting muscle strength. The treatment of muscle injury is related to the extent of their damage. First actions should be focused on the RICE principle (Rest, Ice, Compression, Elevation). In case of torn tissues, local injections of anesthetics, anti-inflammatory agents and regeneration-promoting agents used to be applied. Application of NSAIDs and anti-thrombotic prophylaxis is sound but due to their side effects it is recommended as frequently as it is counterindicated by physicians. A threshold in the therapy, not always noted by therapeutists, involves rapid mobilization of the injured tissue. This involves mobility exercises starting at 3-5 days post-trauma, with no load at the beginning, but starting at days 4 to 6 asssociated with appropriate loading. The recently conducted studies aim at stimulation of rapid muscle regeneration, inhibition of scar formation in the site of injury and elimination of already existing scars. The latter seems most difficult due to the high risk of the repeated muscle injury in the same site. The rehabilitation following trauma with particular attention paid to proprioceptive training is equally important. The risk of another contusion cannot be reduced to minimum until the pre-contusion proprioception level is achieved in the contused extremity.
19242851
19243488	When performing a genome-wide comparison between indica (93-11) and japonica (Nipponbare), we find 8% of the genome, which have an extremely low SNP rate (< 1 SNP/kb). Inside these 'SNP deserts', experimentally confirmed genes show increased K(a)/K(s) that indicate adaptive selection. To further elucidate this connection, we survey the level and pattern of genetic variation in both cultivated and wild rice groups, using 155 noncoding regions located within SNP deserts. The results suggest that cultivated rice has greatly reduced genetic variation within SNP deserts as compared to either the nondesert or corresponding genomic regions in wild rice. Consistent with this reduction in genetic variation, we find a biased distribution of derived allele frequency in the cultivated group, indicative of positive selection. Furthermore, over half of the confirmed, domestication-related genes are found within SNP deserts, also suggesting that SNP deserts are strongly related to domestication, and might be the key sites in the process of domestication.
19244140	Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major factor limiting crop production in acidic soil, but the molecular mechanisms of Al tolerance are poorly understood. Here, we report that two genes, STAR1 (for sensitive to Al rhizotoxicity1) and STAR2, are responsible for Al tolerance in rice. STAR1 encodes a nucleotide binding domain, while STAR2 encodes a transmembrane domain, of a bacterial-type ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporter. Disruption of either gene resulted in hypersensitivity to aluminum toxicity. Both STAR1 and STAR2 are expressed mainly in the roots and are specifically induced by Al exposure. Expression in onion epidermal cells, rice protoplasts, and yeast showed that STAR1 interacts with STAR2 to form a complex that localizes to the vesicle membranes of all root cells, except for those in the epidermal layer of the mature zone. When expressed together in Xenopus laevis oocytes, STAR1/2 shows efflux transport activity specific for UDP-glucose. Furthermore, addition of exogenous UDP-glucose rescued root growth in the star1 mutant exposed to Al. These results indicate that STAR1 and STAR2 form a complex that functions as an ABC transporter, which is required for detoxification of Al in rice. The ABC transporter transports UDP-glucose, which may be used to modify the cell wall.
19244898	This study examined whether the survival of Vibrio cholerae O1 on contaminated cooked rice was influenced by the type of rice. Vibrios survived unchanged on clumps of glutinous white rice (wet, grains adhered) held at room temperature for 24 h. On nonglutinous white rice (slightly moist, grains separate), 30% viable vibrios remained at 24 h. On nonglutinous brown rice (moist, separate, covered with a mucus-like substance), the number of vibrios increased 2.7-fold at 24 h. Survival rates of vibrios on the surfaces of a row of five cooked rice grains after 2 h of exposure at room temperature were 86, 29, 12, and 4% for glutinous rice, white rice, and the endosperm and pericarp of brown rice, respectively. (Each boiled brown rice grain surface was partly pericarp and partly endosperm, which became exposed by a rupture of the pericarp.) Covering each inoculated grain with a similar cooked rice grain surface increased the corresponding figures to 93, 99, 60, and 94%. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that each type of cooked grain surface possessed a distinct microtopography. For example, the surfaces of glutinous rice grains consisted of separated overlapping strips with many holes, while the pericarps of brown rice were flat interspersed with small pits. In conclusion, each type of boiled rice produced a distinct survival pattern of V. cholerae O1 caused by both the distinct gross features and the fine surface characteristics of the rice. The significance of this finding is that the type of rice consumed can be a factor in cholera transmission by contaminated rice.
19244995	Paddy rice has been likened to nictiana sp in its ability to scavenge cadmium (Cd) from soil, whereas arsenic (As) accumulation is commonly an order of magnitude higher than in other cereal crops. In areas such as those found in parts of Hunan province in south central China, base-metal mining activities and rice farming coexist. Therefore there is a considerable likelihood that lead (Pb), in addition to Cd and As, will accumulate in rice grown in parts of this region above levels suitable for human consumption. To test this hypothesis, a widespread provincial survey of rice from mine spoilt paddies (n = 100), in addition to a follow-up market grain survey (n = 122) conducted in mine impacted areas was undertaken to determine the safety of local rice supply networks. Furthermore, a specific Cd, As, and Pb biogeochemical survey of paddy soil and rice was conducted within southern China, targeting sites impacted by mining of varying intensities to calibrate rice metal(loid) transfer models and transfer factors that can be used to predict tissue loading. Results revealed a number of highly significant correlations between shoot, husk, bran, and endosperm rice tissue fractions and that rice from mining areas was enriched in Cd, As, and Pb. Sixty-five, 50, and 34% of all the mine-impacted field rice was predicted to fail national food standards for Cd, As, and Pb, respectively. Although, not as elevated as the grains from the mine-impacted field survey, it was demonstrated that metal(loid) tainted rice was entering food supply chains intended for direct human consumption.
19245180	A bioactive compound with antibacterial activity was isolated and purified from the extract of leaves of sunflower, Helianthus annuus. The bioactive compound was characterized using 1H and 13C NMR. The compound induced auxin, gibberellins and cytokinin in Oryza sativa and Phaseolus mungo. It also showed activity against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae.
19245403	To characterize antifungal principles from the methanol extract of Magnolia obovata and to evaluate their antifungal activities against various plant pathogenic fungi. Four neolignans were isolated from stem bark of M. obovata as antifungal principles and identified as magnolol, honokiol, 4-methoxyhonokiol and obovatol. In mycelial growth inhibition assay, both magnolol and honokiol displayed more potent antifungal activity than 4-methoxyhonokiol and obovatol. Both magnolol and honokiol showed similar in vivo antifungal spectrum against seven plant diseases tested; both compounds effectively suppressed the development of rice blast, tomato late blight, wheat leaf rust and red pepper anthracnose. 4-Methoxyhonokiol and obovatol were highly active to only rice blast and wheat leaf rust respectively. The extract of M. obovata and four neolignans had potent in vivo antifungal activities against plant pathogenic fungi. Neolignans from Magnolia spp. can be used and suggested as a novel antifungal lead compound for the development of new fungicide and directly as a natural fungicide for the control of plant diseases such as rice blast and wheat leaf rust.
19246394	Rice is a facultative short-day plant, and molecular genetic studies have identified the major genes involved in short-day flowering. However, the molecular mechanisms promoting the diversity of flowering time in cultivated rice are not known. We used a core collection of 64 rice cultivars that represent the genetic diversity of 332 accessions from around the world and studied the expression levels and polymorphisms of 6 genes in the short-day flowering pathway. The RNA levels of Heading date 3a (Hd3a), encoding a floral activator, are highly correlated with flowering time, and there is a high degree of polymorphism in the Heading date 1 (Hd1) protein, which is a major regulator of Hd3a expression. Functional and nonfunctional alleles of Hd1 are associated with early and late flowering, respectively, suggesting that Hd1 is a major determinant of variation in flowering time of cultivated rice. We also found that the type of Hd3a promoter and the level of Ehd1 expression contribute to the diversity in flowering time and Hd3a expression level. We evaluated the contributions of these 3 factors by a statistical analysis using a simple linear model, and the results supported our experimental observations.
19246459	One mechanism to enhance global food stocks radically is to introduce C4 photosynthesis into C3 crops from warm climates, notably rice. To accomplish this, an understanding of leaf structure and function is essential. The chlorenchyma structure of rice and related warm-climate C3 grasses is distinct from that of cool temperate C3 grasses. In temperate C3 grasses, vacuoles occupy the majority of the cell, while chloroplasts, peroxisomes and mitochondria are pressed against the cell periphery. In rice, 66% of protoplast volume is occupied by chloroplasts, and chloroplasts/stromules cover >95% of the cell periphery. Mitochondria and peroxisomes occur in the cell interior and are intimately associated with chloroplasts/stromules. We hypothesize that the chlorenchyma architecture of rice enhances diffusive CO(2) conductance and maximizes scavenging of photorespired CO2. The extensive chloroplast/stromule sheath forces photorespired CO(2) to exit cells via the stroma, where it can be refixed by Rubisco. Deep cell lobing and small cell size, coupled with chloroplast sheaths, creates high surface area exposure of stroma to intercellular spaces, thereby enhancing mesophyll transfer conductance. In support of this, rice exhibits higher mesophyll transfer conductance, greater stromal CO2 content, lower CO2 compensation points at warm temperature and less oxygen sensitivity of photosynthesis than cool temperate grasses. Rice vein length per leaf, mesophyll thickness and intercellular space volume are intermediate between those of most C3 and C4 grasses, indicating that the introduction of Kranz anatomy into rice may not require radical changes in leaf anatomy; however, deep lobing of chlorenchyma cells may constrain efforts to engineer C4 photosynthesis into rice.
19246854	Electromagnetic fields may interfere with normal pacemaker function. Despite new device designs and bipolar leads, electromagnetic interference (EMI) remains a concern when pacemaker recipients are exposed to various household appliances. We report the observation of EMI by an induction heating (IH) rice cooker in a patient with sick sinus syndrome who was the recipient of a bipolar dual chamber-pacing system. Stored electrograms revealed episodes of inappropriate ventricular pacing, all coinciding with the opening of an IH rice cooker. Recipients of implantable medical devices must be warned to handle IH rice cookers with caution.
19247587	The submerged fermentation of Cordyceps militaris for cordycepin production and mycelial growth was investigated in this study. Three natural materials of brown rice paste (BRP), beerwort (B), and soybean meal juice (SMJ) were used for fermentation of C. militaris in shaking flasks. The effects of the ratio of three natural materials on dry mycelium weight (DMW) and on cordycepin yield (CY) were analyzed. D-Optional mixture design was used to optimize the ratio of these materials. Compared with the signal culture, the higher mycelial growth and cordycepin production were obtained in mixture. The analysis of Design Expert 6.0 indicated that BRP, B, and SMJ very significantly influenced (P < 0.001) DMW and CY of C. militaris, respectively. The highest DMW (18.96 g/l) and CY (2.17 mg/g) were both obtained at a ratio of 53:6:42. The experiments' results indicated that the above mixture of these natural materials by D-optional mixture design can be used as a proper medium for the growth of mycelium and the production of cordycepin.
19248524	In the present paper, the contents of 17 mineral elements (S, Mo, Ni, Fe, Cr, Na, Al, Cu, P, Sn, Zn, B, Mn, Mg, Ca, Sr and K) in brown rice of 264 plant lines in near-isogenic lines (NILs) population and parents for Japonica rice were determined by ICP-AES technique. The method proved to be simple, rapid, highly sensitive and accurate, and can be used to determine many elements at the same time. Its recovery ratio obtained by standard addition method ranged between 92.3% and 110.27%, and its RSD was lower than 6%. The analytical results showed that NILs for various mineral elements based on the BC5F5 population consisting of 261 lines were developed from a cross between NIL (BC4F5) and Towada. To our knowledge, this is the first report on that near-isogenic lines NIL(BC4F5) with the important value for high mineral elements associated with cold tolerance at booting stage have been bred. The results of the determination show that the brown rice is rich in eleven elements such as P, K, Mg, S, Ca, Zn, Mn, Na, Fe, Cu and Al necessary to human health. There is smaller variation of 5 macroelements (11.15%-16.45%) but larger variation of 12 microelements (16.57%-94.96%) in brown rice from populations. There is significant correlation among 95 from 136 pairs in 17 elements, moreover, especially the correlation (0.531**-0.921**) among 15 pairs of six micro-elements (Mo, Ni, Al, Sn, Cr and Sr) associated with the active components of functional rice is relatively higher than that of 10 pairs (0.175**-0.867**) of 5 macroelements (P, K, Ca, Mg and S), revealing the importance of microelements to catalysing and synthesizing the active components of functional rice. The above results provided reliable data and theory bases for gene location and cloning of controlling elements contents in brown rice, and further revealed the molecular and physiological mechanism of the relation between mineral elements in brown rice and cold tolerance at booting stage in japonica rice from Yunnan Province of China.
19248588	The superfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) is one of the largest and most diverse family of proteins in mammals. Plants, in contrast to animals, have a greatly simplified repertoire of GPCRs. To date, only AtGCR1 and AtRGS1 have been shown to physically interacts with a plant G-protein. Also, the number of G-protein complex components in plants is dramatically less than in other Eukaryotes. Only one prototypical Ga subunit, one Gbeta and two Ggamma subunits have been identified in A. thaliana and rice. Similarly, there are few known downstream effectors that physicaly interact with either the plant Ga subunit or the Gbetagamma dimer. The best-characterized effector is phospholipase D (PLDalpha1). Besides, the potential Galpha effectors are: cupin-domain protein designated as Atpirin1, prephenate dehydratase--a cytosolic enzyme involved in regulation of the shikimate pathway, and THF1 protein located in plastid membranes. Indirect evidences suggest that Galpha may interact with ion channels and phospholipases A2 and C, whereas Gbetagamma dimer supposedly interacts with a Golgi-localized hexose transporter.
19248647	Bacteria were quantified in samples of drinking-water and in two porridges prepared for infant-feeding [fortified instant soy-rice porridge (SRP) and cooked porridge (Lishe bora, LB)] in 54 households. Bacterial numbers were measured again after the porridges had been held at room temperature for four hours (T4). Findings were benchmarked against bacterial numbers in traditional complementary foods sampled from 120 households. Total bacteria, coliform, and Enterobacteriaceae counts were enumerated using Petrifilm. The mean log bacterial numbers were the lowest for LB at TO (2.24 +/- 0.84 cfu/g aerobic counts) and the highest for SRP at T4 (4.63 +/- 0.56 cfu/g aerobic counts). The total bacteria, coliform and Enterobacteriaceae counts were higher at T4 than at T0 for LB (p < or = 0.001); however, only the coliform and Enterobacteriaceae counts were higher at T4 than at T0 for SRP (p<0.001). Drinking-water, SRP0, traditional foods, and SRP4 all had the mean aerobic counts higher than the acceptable cut-off but the total bacterial count in SRP0 was not significantly (p=0.543) different from drinking-water. However, coliform and Enterobacteriaceae counts in SRPO were higher than in drinking-water (p<0.001). Also, although the aerobic counts of SRP4 were not significantly (p>0.999) different from traditional foods, the coliform and Enterobacteriaceae counts were significantly higher in SRP4 than in traditional foods (p<0.001). It is, therefore, recommended that food safety concerns be addressed when improving complementary foods.
19249065	Germinated, unpolished rice was found to contain a substantial amount of D-serine, with the ratio of the D-enantiomer to the L-enantiomer being higher for serine than for other amino acids. The relative amount of D-serine (D/(D+L)%) reached approximately 10% six days after germination. A putative serine racemase gene (serr, clone No. 001-110-B03) was found in chromosome 4 of the genomic DNA of Oryza sativa L. ssp. Japonica cv. Nipponbare. This was expressed as serr in Escherichia coli and its gene product (SerR) was purified to apparent homogeneity. SerR is a homodimer with a subunit molecular mass of 34.5kDa, and is highly specific for serine. In addition to a serine racemase reaction, SerR catalyzes D- and L-serine dehydratase reactions, for which the specific activities were determined to be 2.73 and 1.42nkatal/mg, respectively. The optimum temperature and pH were respectively determined for the racemase reaction (35 degrees C and pH9.0) and for the dehydratase reaction (35 degrees C and pH9.5). SerR was inhibited by PLP-enzyme inhibitors. ATP decreased the serine racemase activity of SerR but increased the serine dehydratase activity. Kinetic analysis showed that Mg(2+) increases the catalytic efficiency of the serine racemase activity of SerR and decreases that of the serine dehydratase activity. Fluorescence-quenching analysis of the tryptophan residues in SerR indicated that the structure of SerR is distorted by the addition of Mg(2+), and this structural change probably regulates the two enzymatic activities.
19249332	On June 30, 2008, the US EPA's IRIS updated their toxicological review on the 2,2',4,4',5,5',6,6'-decabromodiphenyl ether congener and published a revised oral RfD of 0.007mg/kg day based on a NOAEL for neurobehavioral effects of 2.22mg/kg day, as reported by Viberg, H. et al., 2003b. Neurobehavioral derangements in adult mice receiving decabrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE 209) during a defined period of neonatal brain development. Toxicol. Sci. 76, 112-120 (Comment in: Toxicol. Sci. (2004) 2079, 2205-2206, author reply 2207-2208, Comment in: Toxicol. Sci. (2004) 2081, 2528-2529)], and a total uncertainty factor of 300. To evaluate IRIS' updated RfD, we conducted a weight-of-evidence analysis of developmental neurobehavioral effects. The evidence consists of four studies from two laboratories [Viberg et al., 2003b; Viberg, H. et al., 2007. Changes in spontaneous behaviour and altered response to nicotine in the adult rat, after neonatal exposure to the brominated flame retardant, decabrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE 209), Neurotoxicology 28, 136-142; Johansson, N. et al., 2008. Neonatal exposure to decabrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE 209) causes dose-response changes in spontaneous behaviour and cholinergic susceptibility in adult mice. Neurotoxicology; Rice, D.C. et al., 2007. Developmental delays and locomotor activity in the C57BL6/J mouse following neonatal exposure to the fully brominated PBDE, decabromodiphenyl ether, Neurotoxicol. Teratol. 29, 511-520]. The reported effects from these laboratories were in opposite directions - Rice et al. (2007) found mice treated with 20mg/kg day BDE-209 initially had higher activity and an increased habituation, while the Viberg group reported mice and rats treated with >or=20mg/kg BDE-209 (Viberg et al., 2003b, 2007) or mice treated with 2mg/kg BDE-209 (Johansson et al., 2008) had lower initial activity and decreased habituation (although inappropriate statistical methods may have affected results). There was also an overall lack of effects noted in the Functional Observational Battery conducted by Rice et al. (2007). Thus, the Viberg et al. (2003b) study, even in conjunction with other studies, is not suitable for establishing an RfD for BDE-209 or the commercial decabromodiphenyl ether product.
19250836	Vanadate is beneficial to plant growth at low concentration. However, plant exposure to high concentrations of vanadate has been shown to arrest cell growth and lead to cell death. We are interested in understanding the signalling pathways of rice roots in response to vanadate stress. In this study, we demonstrated that vanadate induced rice root cell death and suppressed root growth. In addition, we found that vanadate induced ROS accumulation, increased lipid peroxidation and elicited a remarkable increase of MAPKs and CDPKs activities in rice roots. In contrast, pre-treatment of rice roots with ROS scavenger (sodium benzoate), serine/threonine protein phosphatase inhibitor (endothall), and CDPK antagonist (W7), reduced the vanadate-induced MAPKs activation. Furthermore, the expression of a MAPK gene (OsMPK3) and four tyrosine phosphatase genes (OsDSP3, OsDSP5, OsDSP6, and OsDSP10) were regulated by vanadate in rice roots. Collectively, these results strongly suggest that ROS, protein phosphatase, and CDPK may function in the vanadate-triggered MAPK signalling pathway cause cell death and retarded growth in rice roots.
19251298	Rice stripe virus (RSV) is a single-stranded (ss) RNA virus belonging to the genus Tenuivirus. RSV is present in many East Asian countries and causes severe diseases in rice fields, especially in China. In this study, we analyzed six proteins encoded by the virus for their abilities to suppress RNA silencing in plant using a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-based transient expression assay. Our results indicate that NS3 encoded by RSV RNA3, but not other five RSV encoded proteins, can strongly suppress local GFP silencing in agroinfiltrated Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. NS3 can reverse the GFP silencing, it can also prevent long distance spread of silencing signals which have been reported to be necessary for inducing systemic silencing in host plants. The NS3 protein can significantly reduce the levels of small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) in silencing cells, and was found to bind 21-nucleotide ss-siRNA, siRNA duplex and long ssRNA but not long double-stranded (ds)-RNA. Both N and C terminal of the NS3 protein are critical for silencing suppression, and mutation of the putative nuclear localization signal decreases its local silencing suppression efficiency and blocks its systemic silencing suppression. The NS3-GFP fusion protein and NS3 were shown to accumulate predominantly in nuclei of onion, tobacco and rice cells through transient expression assay or immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy. In addition, transgenic rice and tobacco plants expressing the NS3 did not show any apparent alteration in plant growth and morphology, although NS3 was proven to be a pathogenicity determinant in the PVX heterogenous system. Taken together, our results demonstrate that RSV NS3 is a suppressor of RNA silencing in planta, possibly through sequestering siRNA molecules generated in cells that are undergoing gene silencing.
19251395	Red pepper and soybeans have been reported to modulate energy and glucose metabolism. However, the antidiabetic effect of kochujang, the fermented product of red pepper plus soybeans, has not been studied. We examined whether kochujang affected insulin secretion from beta-cells and/or peripheral insulin resistance in 90% pancreatectomized diabetic rats fed high-fat diets. Diabetic rats consumed a high-fat diet containing two different kinds of 5% kochujang powder or the equivalent amount of nutrients for 8 wk. Two types of kochujang were made through the fermentation of two different kinds of meju (soybeans), red peppers, glutinous rice, and malts. Meju was produced by fermenting soybeans in a traditional method (TMK) or in a more modern method in which soybeans are inoculated with Bacillus subtilus and Aspergillus sojae (MMK). TMK and MMK decreased body weight, visceral fat, and serum leptin levels without modulating caloric intake in diabetic rats compared with the control. TMK and MMK also improved glucose tolerance by enhancing insulin sensitivity but did not potentiate glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. The improvement in hepatic insulin sensitivity caused by TMK and MMK was explained by the potentiated phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 --> adenosine monophosphate kinase --> acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase and decreased phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase expression. Kochujang diets reduced hepatic glucose output and triacylglycerol accumulation and increased glycogen storage. The combination of red pepper and fermented soybeans in kochujang improves glucose homeostasis by reducing insulin resistance, not by enhancing beta-cell function, in diabetic rats. The improvement is associated with decreased hepatic fat storage by the activation of adenosine monophosphate kinase.
19251396	Information on the association between the local food environment and the diet of individuals is limited, particularly in settings with high population density and, hence, high food-store density, such as Japan. This cross-sectional study examined the association between neighborhood food-store availability and individual food intake in a group of young Japanese women. Participants were 990 female Japanese dietetic students 18-22 y of age. Neighborhood food-store availability was defined as the number of food stores within a 1-km mesh-block of residence, derived from the census of commerce. Dietary intake was estimated using a validated, comprehensive self-administered diet-history questionnaire. After adjustment for potential confounding factors, including household socioeconomic status, geographic variables, and the frequency of eating out, neighborhood store availability for confectioneries and bread (based on confectionery stores/bakeries, supermarkets, and grocery and convenience stores) was significantly positively associated with the intake of confectioneries and bread. No significant independent association was seen between neighborhood store availability for the other foods examined, including meat (meat stores, supermarkets, and grocery stores), fish (fish stores, supermarkets, and grocery stores), fruit and vegetables (fruit/vegetable stores, supermarkets, and grocery stores), and rice (rice stores, supermarkets, and grocery and convenience stores) with intake of each food. In a group of young Japanese women, increasing neighborhood store availability for confectioneries and bread was independently associated with higher intake of confectioneries and bread. In contrast, no association between availability and intake was seen for meat, fish, fruit and vegetables, or rice.
19251430	Starch-debranching enzymes (DBEs) are key enzymes involved in starch metabolism in cereals, having a dual function, in both starch synthesis and degradation. However, their precise roles in this pathway, particularly their expression profiles, remain unclear. In the present study, we performed a quantitative real-time PCR (Q-PCR) analysis of the expression pattern of the OsPUL gene encoding a pullulanase-type DBE in different tissues as well as in seeds at different developmental stages. The results showed that this gene was expressed only in seeds. In addition, the 1177-bp OsPUL promoter sequence was cloned, and some endosperm-specific motifs such as the GCN4 and AACA motifs were observed to exist in this region. The promoter was then fused with the GUS reporter gene and its expression was carefully investigated in transgenic rice. The data from both histochemical and fluorometric analyses showed that the OsPUL promoter was capable of driving the target gene to have a high level of endosperm-specific expression. The OsPUL gene maintained a relatively high expression level during the entire period of seed development, and peaked in the middle and late stages. This observation was very consistent with that of the endogenous transcription analysis by Q-PCR. Furthermore, the seed germination experiment showed that the OsPUL promoter actively functions in the late stage of seed germination. The expression of the OsPUL gene was maintained at a significant level during the entire grain filling period and in the late stage of seed germination, which coincided with its involvement in starch anabolism and catabolism.
19251744	The temperature responses of photosynthesis (A) and growth were examined in rice and wheat grown hydroponically under day/night temperature regimes of 13/10, 19/16, 25/19, 30/24 and 37/31 degrees C. Irrespective of growth temperature, the maximal rates of A were found to be at 30-35 degrees C in rice and at 25-30 degrees C in wheat. Below 25 degrees C the rates were higher in wheat, while above 30 degrees C they were higher in rice. However, in both species, A measured at the growth temperature remained almost constant irrespective of temperature. Biomass production and relative growth rate (RGR) were greatest in rice grown at 30/24 degrees C and in wheat grown at 25/19 degrees C. Although there was no difference between the species in the optimal temperature of the leaf area ratios (LARs), the net assimilation rate (NAR) in rice decreased at low temperature (19/16 degrees C) while the NAR in wheat decreased at high temperature (37/31 degrees C). For both species, the N-use efficiency (NUE) for growth rate (GR), estimated by dividing the NAR by leaf-N content, correlated with GR and with biomass production. Similarly, when NUE for A at growth temperature was estimated, the temperature response of NUE for A was similar to that of NUE for GR in both species. The results suggest that the difference between rice and wheat in the temperature response of biomass production depends on the difference in temperature dependence of NUE for A.
19251888	Methanosarcina is the only acetate-consuming genus of methanogenic archaea other than Methanosaeta and thus is important in methanogenic environments for the formation of the greenhouse gases methane and carbon dioxide. However, little is known about isotopic discrimination during acetoclastic CH(4) production. Therefore, we studied two species of the Methanosarcinaceae family, Methanosarcina barkeri and Methanosarcina acetivorans, and a methanogenic rice field soil amended with acetate. The values of the isotope enrichment factor (epsilon) associated with consumption of total acetate (epsilon(ac)), consumption of acetate-methyl (epsilon(ac-methyl)) and production of CH(4) (epsilon(CH4)) were an epsilon(ac) of -30.5 per thousand, an epsilon(ac-methyl) of -25.6 per thousand, and an epsilon(CH4) of -27.4 per thousand for M. barkeri and an epsilon(ac) of -35.3 per thousand, an epsilon(ac-methyl) of -24.8 per thousand, and an epsilon(CH4) of -23.8 per thousand for M. acetivorans. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism of archaeal 16S rRNA genes indicated that acetoclastic methanogenic populations in rice field soil were dominated by Methanosarcina spp. Isotope fractionation determined during acetoclastic methanogenesis in rice field soil resulted in an epsilon(ac) of -18.7 per thousand, an epsilon(ac-methyl) of -16.9 per thousand, and an epsilon(CH4) of -20.8 per thousand. However, in rice field soil as well as in the pure cultures, values of epsilon(ac) and epsilon(ac-methyl) decreased as acetate concentrations decreased, eventually approaching zero. Thus, isotope fractionation of acetate carbon was apparently affected by substrate concentration. The epsilon values determined in pure cultures were consistent with those in rice field soil if the concentration of acetate was taken into account.
19252083	In planta secretion of fungal pathogen proteins, including effectors destined for the plant cell cytoplasm, is critical for disease progression. However, little is known about the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) secretion mechanisms used by these pathogens. To determine if normal ER function is crucial for fungal pathogenicity, Magnaporthe oryzae genes encoding proteins homologous to yeast Lhs1p and Kar2p, members of the heat shock protein 70 family in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, were cloned and characterized. Like their yeast counterparts, both LHS1 and KAR2 proteins localized in the ER and functioned in an unfolded protein response (UPR) similar to the yeast UPR. Mutants produced by disruption of LHS1 were viable but showed a defect in the translocation of proteins across the ER membrane and reduced activities of extracellular enzymes. The Deltalhs1 mutant was severely impaired not only in conidiation, but also in both penetration and biotrophic invasion in susceptible rice (Oryza sativa) plants. This mutant also had defects in the induction of the Pi-ta resistance gene-mediated hypersensitive response and in the accumulation of fluorescently-labeled secreted effector proteins in biotrophic interfacial complexes. Our results suggest that proper processing of secreted proteins, including effectors, by chaperones in the ER is requisite for successful disease development and for determining host-pathogen compatibility via the gene-for-gene interaction.
19252449	Recent nutritional interventions have targeted colonic functions in patients with infectious diarrhea during rehydration and during recovery from malnutrition, with the assumption that the effects will be influenced by metabolism of complex carbohydrates by colonic bacteria. However, the diversity of colonic bacteria in patients with cholera is not known. To study the diversity of colonic bacteria in malnourished children with cholera before and during treatment with oral rehydration salt solutions containing 1 of these 3 substrates: glucose, rice, or amylase-resistant starch. Serial fecal samples were collected from 30 malnourished children with cholera until completion of rehydration and partial nutritional recovery; 11 malnourished children without diarrhea; and 6 better nourished children. Polymerase chain reaction, using universal primers for 16S rDNA, was performed on chromosomal DNA extracted from the stool samples, and the products were separated by temporal temperature gradient gel electrophoresis. The Vibrio cholerae band was detected in all children at enrollment and disappeared within 2 days. On day 2, a rapid and significant increase in the band numbers was observed, which was followed by a steady increase until day 28. After full recovery from cholera and partial recovery from malnutrition, the number of bands (11.5+/-2.8) was lower than in healthy children (22.2+/-1.3). On day 3, the number of bands was greater with rice or amylase-resistant starch than with glucose (P<.05). Bacterial diversity was markedly but transiently altered in severely malnourished children with cholera receiving therapy.
19253284	Secreted proteins were investigated in rice suspension-cultured cells treated with rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea and its elicitor using biochemical and 2-DE coupled with MS analyses followed by their in planta mRNA expression analysis. M. grisea and elicitor successfully interacted with suspension-cultured cells and prepared secreted proteins from these cultures were essentially intracellular proteins free. Comparative 2-D gel analyses identified 21 differential protein spots due to M. grisea and/or elicitor over control. MALDI-TOF-MS and microLC-ESI-MS/MS analyses of these protein spots revealed that most of assigned proteins were involved in defense such as nine chitinases, two germin A/oxalate oxidases, five domain unknown function 26 (DUF 26) secretory proteins, and beta-expansin. One chitin binding chitinase protein was isolated using chitin binding beads and strong enzymatic activity was identified in an in-gel assay. Interestingly, their protein abundance correlated well at transcript levels in elicitor-treated cultures as judged by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Each identified differentially expressed protein group was compared at transcript levels in rice leaves inoculated with incompatible (KJ401) and compatible (KJ301) races of M. grisea. Time-course profiling revealed their inductions were stronger and earlier in incompatible than compatible interactions. Identified secreted proteins and their expression correlation at transcript level in suspension-cultured cells and also in planta suggest that suspension-cultured cells can be useful to investigate the secretome of rice blast-pathogen interactions.
19253322	Bacterial blight (BB) is a serious disease of rice in India. We have used molecular marker-assisted selection in a backcross breeding program to introgress three genes (Xa21, xa13, and xa5) for BB resistance into Triguna, a mid-early duration, high yielding rice variety that is susceptible to BB. At each generation in the backcross program, molecular markers were used to select plants possessing these resistance genes and to select plants that have maximum contribution from the Triguna genome. A selected BC3F1 plant was selfed to generate homozygous BC(3)F(2) plants with different combinations of BB resistance genes. Plants containing the two-gene combination, Xa21 and xa13, were found to exhibit excellent resistance against BB. Single plant selections for superior agronomic characteristics were performed on the progeny of these plants, from BC(3)F(3) generation onwards. The selected plants were subjected to yield trials at the BC(3)F(8) generation and were found to have a significant yield advantage over Triguna. The newly developed lines are being entered into national multi-location field trials. This work represents a successful example of the application of molecular marker-assisted selection for BB resistance breeding in rice.
19253951	Recently, more immediate and precise cultivar-identifying methods targeting the specific and/or introduced gene(s) have been put into practical use for various rice cultivars. However trustworthy and innovative the biotechnological analyses may be, DNA purity and quality do have unpredictable influences upon the identification. Extraction methods of rice DNA have hardly ever been compared in a comprehensive manner. In this study, we investigated extraction characteristics of three methods by using 10 rice cultivars and then examined template availability of rice DNAs thereby extracted. An UV spectrophotometric study with a view toward methods revealed three different facts: The Isoplant II kit method with inhibitor absorption yielded the most DNAs, the Takara kit method with magnetic trapping produced the best DNAs free from contaminative proteins, and the enzymatic digestion method exclusively with enzymatic digestions prepared the best DNAs free from contaminative polysaccharides. Moreover, with a view toward cultivars, an insignificant difference in yield was not entirely bore out, and some difference in cultivar might cause significant difference in yield; however, no significant difference in purity was found among the cultivars used. On the other hand, electrophoretic images of the DNAs from the same cultivars showed considerable differences in quality among the methods. Furthermore, the DNA extracts from certain brands of rice proved really available for cultivar identification by using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) related to sequence-tagged sites. Therefore, this study suggested that these extraction methods may be used as the situation demands and that the DNAs thereby extracted might work successfully even in cultivar-identifying PCRs.
19254762	Nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors (nAChRs) are ligand-gated ion channels which mediate fast cholinergic synaptic transmission in insect and vertebrate nervous systems. The nAChR agonist-binding site is formed by loops A-C present in alpha subunits together with loops D-F present in either non-alpha subunits or homomer-forming alpha subunits. A new non-alpha subunit was cloned from Nilaparvata lugens, a major rice pest in many parts of Asia, showing very high amino acid identity to other insect beta1 subunits, and was denoted as N. lugens beta1 (Nlbeta1). Six A-to-I RNA editing sites were found in Nlbeta1 N-terminal domain, in which only one site was previously reported in Drosophila melanogaster Dbeta1 and the other five were newly identified. Among the six editing sites, four caused amino acid changes, in which the site 2 (E2) and site 5 (E5) caused an N to D change in loop D (N73D) and loop E (N133D) respectively. E2 frequency was high in Sus (susceptible) strain and E5 frequency was high in Res (resistant) strain. By expressing in Xenopus oocytes, N73D editing was found to reduce the agonist potency of both ACh and imidacloprid, and the influence on ACh was more significant than on imidacloprid. By contrast, N133D editing only affected imidacloprid potency. These results indicated, although E2 and E5 editings both caused an N to D change in important loops, their roles in neonicotinoid insensitivity might be different.
19254850	Fragmentations of tautomers of the alpha-centered radical triglycine radical cation, [GGG(*)](+), [GG(*)G](+), and [G(*)GG](+), are charge-driven, giving b-type ions; these are processes that are facilitated by a mobile proton, as in the fragmentation of protonated triglycine (Rodriquez, C. F. et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 3006-3012). By contrast, radical centers are less mobile. Two mechanisms have been examined theoretically utilizing density functional theory and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus modeling: (1) a direct hydrogen-atom migration between two alpha-carbons, and (2) a two-step proton migration involving canonical [GGG](*+) as an intermediate. Predictions employing the latter mechanism are in good agreement with results of recent CID experiments (Chu, I. K. et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 7862-7872).
19255090	Recent advances in DNA-sequencing technology have made it possible to obtain large datasets of small RNA sequences. Here we demonstrate that not all non-perfectly matched small RNA sequences are simple technological sequencing errors, but many hold valuable biological information. Analysis of three small RNA datasets originating from Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana small RNA-sequencing projects demonstrates that many single nucleotide substitution errors overlap when aligning homologous non-identical small RNA sequences. Investigating the sites and identities of substitution errors reveal that many potentially originate as a result of post-transcriptional modifications or RNA editing. Modifications include N1-methyl modified purine nucleotides in tRNA, potential deamination or base substitutions in micro RNAs, 3' micro RNA uridine extensions and 5' micro RNA deletions. Additionally, further analysis of large sequencing datasets reveal that the combined effects of 5' deletions and 3' uridine extensions can alter the specificity by which micro RNAs associate with different Argonaute proteins. Hence, we demonstrate that not all sequencing errors in small RNA datasets are technical artifacts, but that these actually often reveal valuable biological insights to the sites of post-transcriptional RNA modifications.
19255521	The aflatoxin B1 degrading abilities of two different ruminants were compared in this study. One set of experiments evaluated the aflatoxin B1 degradation ability of different rumen fluid donors (steers vs. goats) as well as the rumen fluid filtration method (cheese cloth filtered vs. 0.45 microm Millipore) in a 2 x 2 factorial arrangement. Additional studies examined aflatoxin B1 degradation by collecting rumen fluid at different times (0, 3, 6, 9 and 12 h) after feeding. Cannulated Holstein steers (740 +/- 10 kg bw) and Korean native goats (26 +/- 3 kg bw) were fed a 60% timothy and 40% commercial diet with free access to water. Rumen fluid from Korean native goats demonstrated higher (p < 0.01) aflatoxin B1 degradability than Holstein steers. However, filtration method had no significant influence on degradability. In addition, aflatoxin degradation did not depend upon rumen fluid collection time after feeding, as no significant differences were observed. Finally, a comparison of two types of diet high in roughage found aflatoxin degradability in goats was higher with timothy hay opposed to rice straw, although individual variation existed. Thus, our findings showed the aflatoxin degradability is comparatively higher in goats compared to steers.
19255649	Genetic control of root development in rice is complex and the underlying mechanisms (constitutive and adaptive) are poorly understood. Lowland and upland varieties of indica and japonica rice with contrasting root development characteristics have been crossed, mapping populations developed and a number of QTLs in different chromosomes were identified. As these studies have used different sets of markers and many of the QTLs identified are long, it is difficult to exploit the varietal difference for improved root traits by marker assisted selection and for identification of concerned alleles. Intensive data mining of literature resulted in the identification 861 root development QTLs and associated microsatellite markers located on different chromosomes. The QTL and marker data generated and the genome sequence of rice were used for construction of a relational database, Rootbrowse, using MySQL relational database management system and Bio::DB::GFF schema. The data is viewed using GBrowse visualization tool. It graphically displays a section of the genome and all features annotated on it including the QTLs. The QTLs can be displayed along with SSR markers, protein coding genes and/or known root development genes for prediction of probable candidate genes. Rootbrowse is freely available at http://www.ricebrowse.org.
19255858	The tsunami disaster in the Indian Ocean in December 2004 caused devastation of agricultural soils by salt water over wide areas. Many rice fields located close to the coast were affected by the flood of seawater. Electric conductivity (EC) of soils in tsunami-affected rice fields was found to be higher compared to unaffected fields 2 years after the tsunami. Four soil amendments (gypsum, dolomite, cinnamon ash and rice-husk-charcoal) were tested for their influence on improving the yield parameters of rice grown in a tsunami-affected and a non-affected area. Yield parameters were compared with an untreated control of the same cultivar (AT362) and with a salt resistant rice variety (AT354). The salt resistant variety had the highest grain yield. The two amendments gypsum and rice-husk-charcoal led to an increase in grain yield compared to the untreated control, whereas dolomite and cinnamon ash had no significant effect on grain yield.
19256371	An indoor experiment was conducted to investigate the inhibition effects and mechanisms of rice straw extracts to the harmful bloom-forming algae, Microcystis aeruginosa. It was found that there were algae inhibitory chemicals in rice straw. The inhabitation ratio of rice straw extract to Microcystis was 69.3% when stored at a low temperature of - 4 degrees C for 4 days with a concentration of 2.5 g/L. The algal inhibition depends on both chemicals and biological responses from decomposed rice straw extracts. Their relative contributions to the algal inhibition depended on decomposition pathway and time. Algal inhibitory chemicals played more important roles in anaerobic decomposed rice straw extracts than aerobic decomposed ones in the algal-inhibition process. For anaerobically decomposed straw extracts, if stored for 15 and 30 days with the concentration of 1.5 g/L, the inhabitation ratio of rice straw to Microcystis was 83% and 46% respectively. However, for aerobically decomposed straw extracts, the biologic mechanism was more important. The inhibition effects of biologic mechanism increased with the decomposition time. For aerobically decomposed straw extracts, if stored for 15 and 30 days with the concentration of 1.5 g/L, the inhabitation ratio of rice straw to Microcystis was 81% and 93% respectively.
19256394	Methane production and emission were investigated in 45 subtropical soil samples, collected from different land use and derived from different soil parent materials in Jiangxi province, by incubating flooded soil slurries in a closed system under N2 gas in the headspace after treatment with or without NO3(-)-N (200 mg x kg(-1)) for 28 days at 30 degrees C. The results indicated that the content and availability of soil organic C were the dominant factors influencing CH4 production and emission whether NO3(-)-N was added or not under this anaerobic incubation condition. Methane emission was higher in the soils derived from granite in the unamended soils and used for rice cultivation in the amended soils. During the anaerobic incubation, the NO3(-)-N added significantly inhibited the production and emission of CH4. The inhibitory effect of NO3(-)-N on CH4 emission might be stronger than that of N2O. The amount and rate of NO3(-)-N denitrified in the first 7 days of incubation determined the CH4 emission amount in the soils with NO3(-)-N. The Fe2+ content increased exponentially with the CH4 emission in 73% of the control soils without NO3(-)-N, which indicated that Fe3+ reduction processed simultaneously with CO2 reduction. Nitrate nitrogen inhibits not only the production and emission of CH4 but also the reduction of Fe3+.
19256557	The composition and thermal stability of anthocyanins in black rice (Oryza sativa L. japonica var. SBR) produced in California were investigated. Six anthocyanin pigments were identified and quantified by high performance liquid chromatography using photo diode-array detection (HPLC-PDA) and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry [LC-(ESI)MS/MS]. The predominant anthocyanins are cyanidin-3-glucoside (572.47 microg/g; 91.13% of total) and peonidin-3-glucoside (29.78 microg/g; 4.74% of total). Minor constituents included three cyanidin-dihexoside isomers and one cyanidin hexoside. Thermal stability of anthocyanins was assessed in rice cooked using a rice cooker, pressure cooker, or on a gas range. All cooking methods caused significant (P < 0.001) decreases in the anthocyanins identified. Pressure cooking resulted in the greatest loss of cyanidin-3-glucoside (79.8%) followed by the rice cooker (74.2%) and gas range (65.4%). Conversely, levels of protocatechuic acid increased 2.7 to 3.4 times in response to all cooking methods. These findings indicate that cooking black rice results in the thermal degradation of cyanidin-3-glucoside and concomitant production of protocatechuic acid.
19258439	In rice (Oryza sativa), the shoot-borne crown roots are the major root type and are initiated at lower stem nodes as part of normal plant development. However, the regulatory mechanism of crown root development is poorly understood. In this work, we show that a WUSCHEL-related Homeobox (WOX) gene, WOX11, is involved in the activation of crown root emergence and growth. WOX11 was found to be expressed in emerging crown roots and later in cell division regions of the root meristem. The expression could be induced by exogenous auxin or cytokinin. Loss-of-function mutation or downregulation of the gene reduced the number and the growth rate of crown roots, whereas overexpression of the gene induced precocious crown root growth and dramatically increased the root biomass by producing crown roots at the upper stem nodes and the base of florets. The expressions of auxin- and cytokinin-responsive genes were affected in WOX11 overexpression and RNA interference transgenic plants. Further analysis showed that WOX11 directly repressed RR2, a type-A cytokinin-responsive regulator gene that was found to be expressed in crown root primordia. The results suggest that WOX11 may be an integrator of auxin and cytokinin signaling that feeds into RR2 to regulate cell proliferation during crown root development.
19259491	Thirty-three isolates of root-knot nematode were recovered from soil samples from rice-wheat fields in Nepal and maintained on rice cv. BR 11. The isolates were characterized using morphology, host range and DNA sequence analyses in order to ascertain their identity. Results indicated phenotypic similarity (juvenile measurements, perennial pattern, host range and gall shape) of the Nepalese isolates with Meloidogyne graminicola, with minor variations. The rice varieties LA 110 and Labelle were susceptible to all of the Nepalese isolates, but differences in the aggressiveness of the isolates were observed. Phylogenetic analyses based on the sequences of partial internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of the rRNA genes indicated that all Nepalese isolates formed a distinct clade with known isolates of M. graminicola with high bootstrap support. Furthermore, two groups were identified within the M. graminicola clade. No correlation between ITS haplotype and aggressiveness or host range was found among the tested isolates.
19259495	Polianthes tuberosa is a commercially valuable flower crop in the Mekong Delta of Vietnam that is propagated by the harvesting and planting of bulbs. The cultivation of P. tuberosa is complicated by an endemic nematode infection that damages a high proportion of the plants. Based on morphological criteria and ribosomal RNA gene sequencing, we have determined that the infection is caused by an Aphelenchoides sp. nematode and is most likely Aphelenchoides besseyi. By scoring various parts of harvested plants with flowers for the presence of viable nematodes over a period of six months, we determined that the nematode is an ectoparasite that can survive the intercrop periods, especially in the bulbs that are used to plant new crops. A comparison of farming practices in the Mekong Delta failed to identify useful control methods, but rather indicated that fields that have cultivated P. tuberosa for the longest periods suffer the worst damage from the nematode infection. Finally, we demonstrated that the nematode is capable of infecting 30 rice cultivars but does not cause the white tip disease usually associated with A. besseyi infection.
19259514	A new stunt nematode, from soil around the roots of coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) and rice (Oryza sativa L.) from Karachi, Pakistan, is described and illustrated as Tylenchorhynchus qasimii n. sp. This new species is characterized by having females with 3-4 head annules, anteriorly directed stylet knobs, absence of post anal extension, presence of rounded sperm filled spermatheca and conoid to bluntly rounded hemispherical tail terminus. Males are common. Also included is the record of T. kegasawai from around the roots of rice (O. sativa L.), a new report from Sindh, Pakistan.
19259538	Changes in population levels of Meloidogyne hapla, M. incognita, Pratylenchus coffeae, and P. penetrans were studied in 12 strawberry fields in the Dahu region of Taiwan. Ten potential rotation crops and two cultural practices were evaluated for their effect on nematode populations and influence on strawberry yield. Rotation with rice or taro and the cultural practice of flooding and bare fallowing for four months were found to reduce nematode soil populations to two or fewer nematodes per 100 ml soil. Average strawberry yields increased between 2.4% to 6.3% following taro compared to the bare fallow treatment. Corn suppressed M. incognita and M. hapla populations and resulted in an increased in strawberry yield compared to bare fallow. Other phytopathogens also present in these fields limited taro as the rotation choice for nematode management. Results of this research and economic analysis of the input requirements for various rotation crops, corn and bare fallow were recommended as the most appropriate rotation strategies for nematode management in strawberry in this region.
19259642	Aspartate aminotransferase (AAT) is a key enzyme in the synthesis of amino acids. It plays an important role in regulating carbon and nitrogen metabolism in almost all organisms. In this study, we over-expressed in rice separately all three AAT genes from rice (OsAAT1~3) and one AAT gene from Escherichia coli (EcAAT). Over-expression was driven by the CaMV 35S promoter and constructs were introduced into rice by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Compared with control plants, the transformants showed significantly increased leaf AAT activity and greater seed amino acid and protein contents. No other phenotypic changes were observed. The total leaf AAT activities in plants over-expressing OsAAT1, OsAAT2, and EcAAT were 26.6, 23.6, and 19.6 A min(-1) mg(-1) FW (A: units of activity, defined as increase of absorbency per min per mg; FW: fresh weight), which were significantly higher than that in the wild-type control (17.7 A min(-1) mg(-1) FW). The amino acid content in seeds of transgenic plants over-expressing OsAAT1, OsAAT2, and EcAAT was 119.36, 115.36, and 113.72 mg g(-1), respectively, which were 16.1, 12.0, and 5.4% higher, respectively, than that in the control plants. The transgenic plants over-expressing OsAAT1, OsAAT2, and EcAAT had significantly higher protein contents (increased 22.2, 21.1, and 11.1%, respectively) than wild-type plants. No significant changes were found in leaf AAT activity, seed amino acid content or protein content in OsAAT3 over-expressed plants. The expression patterns of the three OsAAT genes and their different functions are also discussed.
19259777	To estimate the greenhouse gas emissions from paddy fields of Cambodia, the methodology of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidelines, IPCC coefficients, and emission factors from the experiment in Thailand and another country were used. Total area under rice cultivation during the years 2005-2006 was 2,048,360 ha in the first crop season and 298,529 ha in the second crop season. The emission of methane from stubble incorporation with manure plus fertilizer application areas in the first crop season was estimated to be 192,783.74 ton higher than stubble with manure, stubble with fertilizer, and stubble without fertilizer areas. The fields with stubble burning emitted the highest emission of methane (75,771.29 ton) followed by stubble burning with manure (22,251.08 ton), stubble burning with fertilizer (13,213.27 ton), and stubble burning with fertilizer application areas (3,222.22 ton). The total emission of methane from rice field in Cambodia for the years 2005-2006 was approximately 342,649.26 ton (342.65 Gg) in the first crop season and 36,838.88 ton (36.84 Gg) in the second crop season. During the first crop season in the years 2005-2006, Battambang province emitted the highest amount of CH(4) (38,764.48 ton) and, in the second crop season during the years 2005-2006, the highest emission (8,262.34 ton) was found in Takeo province (8,262.34 ton). Nitrous oxide emission was between 2.70 and 1,047.92 ton in the first crop season and it ranged from 0 to 244.90 ton in the second crop season. Total nitrous oxide emission from paddy rice field was estimated to be 9,026.28 ton in the first crop season and 1,091.93 ton in the second crop season. Larger area under cultivation is responsible for higher emission of methane and nitrous oxide. Total emission of nitrous oxide by using IPCC default emission coefficient was approximately 2,328.85 ton. The total global warming potential of Cambodian paddy rice soil is 11,723,217.03 ton (11,723 Gg) equivalents of CO(2).
19260224	The level of heavy metal pollution in Singrauli, an industrial region in India, was assessed and the phytoremediation capacity of a small water fern, Azolla pinnata R.BR (Azollaceae), was observed to purify waters polluted by two heavy metals, i.e., mercury (Hg) and cadmium (Cd) under a microcosm condition. Azolla pinnata is endemic to India and is an abundant and easy-growing free-floating water fern usually found in the rice fields, polluted ponds, and reservoirs of India. The fern was grown in 24 40-L aquariums containing Hg2+ and Cd2+ ions each in concentrations of 0.5, 1.0, and 3.0 mgL(-1) during the course of this study. The study revealed an inhibition of Azolla pinnata growth by 27.0-33.9% with the highest in the presence of Hg (II) ions at 0.5 mgL(-1) in comparison to the control After 13 days of the experiment, metal contents in the solution were decreased up to 70-94%. In the tissues of Azolla pinnata, the concentration of selected heavy metals during investigation was recorded between 310 and 740 mgKg(-1) dry mass, with the highest levelfoundfor Cd (II) treatment at 3.0 mgL(-1) containing a metal solution.
19261072	With the exception of rice, little is known about the existence of respiratory burst oxidase homolog (rboh) gene in cereals. The present study reports the cloning and analysis of a novel rboh gene, termed ZmrbohB, from maize (Zea mays L.). The full-length cDNA of ZmrbohB encodes a 942 amino acid protein containing all of the respiratory burst oxidase homolog catalytically critical motifs. Alternative splicing of ZmrbohB has generated two transcript isoforms, ZmrbohB-alpha and -beta. Spliced transcript ZmrbohB-beta retains an unspliced intron 11 that carries a premature termination codon and probably leads to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. Expression analysis showed that two splice isoforms were differentially expressed in various tissues and at different developmental stages, and the major product was ZmrbohB-alpha. The transcripts of ZmrbohB-alpha accumulated markedly when the maize seedlings were subjected to various abiotic stimuli, such as wounding, cold (4 degrees C), heat (40 degrees C), UV and salinity stress. In addition, several abiotic stimuli also affected the alternative splicing pattern of ZmrbohB except wounding. These results provide new insight into roles in the expression regulation of plant rboh genes and suggest that ZmrbohB gene may play a role in response to environmental stresses.
19261383	Hydrothermal conversion of biomass into biofuel could produce a special type of biochar as byproduct. This biochar is quite different from biochar derived from high temperature pyrolysis. In the present study, two biochars, prepared from hydrothermal liquefaction of pinewood (P300) and rice husk (R300), were characterized and investigated for lead removal from aqueous solution. The results indicated that the biochars contained a large amount of oxygen-containing groups on the surface, which were quite effective for lead removal with capacities of 4.25 and 2.40 mg/g for P300 and R300, respectively. The adsorption equilibrium was achieved around 5h. Higher temperature favored the removal capacity implying that the adsorption was an endothermic process. The adsorption data at optimum solution pH 5 could be well described by Langmuir model and the adsorption process was well fitted by pseudo-second-order model. Moreover, it was found that the adsorption was mainly controlled by film diffusion. Thermodynamics analysis suggested that lead adsorption onto the biochars was physical endothermic process.
19262041	We describe a high-performance liquid chromatographic method for determining ustiloxin A, a mycotoxin produced by Ustilaginoidea virens, in forage rice silage. Lyophilized silage samples were ground and extracted with water. The extracts were purified by solid-phase extraction and subjected to high-performance liquid chromatography using an octadecylsilane-bonded column. Separated ustiloxin A was detected with ultraviolet (UV) absorption at 254 nm. The limit of quantitation for ustiloxin A in silage found to be 2.5 mg/kg. The present method can be used for routine monitoring of the contamination of ustiloxin A in forage rice silage.
19262786	The impact of Meloidogyne graminicola on growth and yield of lowland rainfed rice was assessed with and without carbofuran in a rice-wheat rotation area of northwestern Bangladesh. The experiment was conducted on farmer fields and at a research station, with experimental plots arranged in a randomized complete block design. Prior to transplanting, rice seedling height and dry weight were greater (P </= 0.05) and soil levels of M. graminicola were lower (P </= 0.05) in the treated seedbed plots compared to the nontreated control plots. Nematicide application to the field at transplanting had a greater effect (P </= 0.05) on mid-season plant growth than did nematicide application to the seedbed at sowing, and rice yield increased by 1.0 t/ha where carbofuran was applied to the seedbed and field-both at the research station (P </= 0.05) and on farmer fields (P </= 0.10)- compared to a nontreated control. This is the first report of a negative impact of M. graminicola on growth and yield of lowland rainfed rice in production fields in Bangladesh.
19262869	The vertical distribution of dominant genera of bacterivorous nematodes to 150-cm depth in an aquic brown soil was compared after 14 years of four contrasting land uses, i.e., cropland-rice (CR), cropland-maize (CM), abandoned cropland (AC), and woodland (WL). The study was conducted at the Shenyang Experimental Station of Ecology, a Chinese Ecosystem Research Network (CERN) site in Northeast China. Data were analyzed using two-way analysis of variance with land use and depth as independent variables. More than 70% of Chiloplacus, Eucephalobus, and Monhystera spp. were present in the uppermost soil layer (0 to 5 cm) in the CR treatment. In contrast, Chiloplacus and Prismatolaimus spp. were distributed down to 100-cm depth in the AC and CM treatments, respectively. Differences in numbers of Acrobeles, Acrobeloides, Cephalobus, Chiloplacus, Eucephalobus, Monhystera, Plectus, and Prismatolaimus were found among land uses and at various depths. Soil C and N were correlated positively with numbers of Monhystera and Plectus in the CR treatment, Acrobeloides in the CM treatment, and Acrobeles and Acrobeloides in the AC treatment. Soil pH was correlated negatively with Monhystera, Plectus (CR), and Acrobeloides (CM, AC). The relationship of pH with Acrobeles depended on land use: positive in the WL treatment and negative in the AC treatment. Our results suggested that Cephalobus and Prismatolaimus in the CR treatment, and Chiloplacus and Prismatolaimus in the WL treatment, were insensitive to soil properties measured. Differences in vertical distribution should be considered when studying dominant bacterivorous nematode genera among land uses.
19263224	Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) control plant development and response to various stress environments through the important roles in the regulation of Ca(2+) signaling. Thirty-one CDPK genes have been identified in the rice genome by a complete search of the genome based upon HMM profiles. In this study, the expression of this gene family was analyzed using the Affymetrix rice genome array in three rice cultivars: Minghui 63, Zhenshan 97, and their hybrid Shanyou 63 independently. Twenty-seven tissues sampled throughout the entire rice life-span were studied, along with three hormone treatments (GA3, NAA and KT), applied to the seedling at the trefoil stage. All 31 genes were found to be expressed in at least one of the experimental stages studied and revealed diverse expression patterns. We identified differential expression of the OsCPK genes in the stamen (1 day before flowering), the panicle (at the heading stage), the endosperm (days after pollination) and also in callus, in all three cultivars. Eight genes, OsCPK2, OsCPK11, OsCPK14, OsCPK22, OsCPK25, OsCPK26, OsCPK27 and OsCPK29 were found dominantly expressed in the panicle and the stamen, and five genes, OsCPK6, OsCPK7, OsCPK12, OsCPK23 and OsCPK31 were up-regulated in the endosperm stage. The OsCPK genes were also found to be regulated in rice seedlings subjected to different hormone treatment conditions, however their expression were not the same for all varieties. These diverse expression profiles trigger the functional analysis of the CDPK family in rice.
19264655	Rice stripe virus (RSV) is one of the most economically important pathogens of rice and is repeatedly epidemic in China, Japan and Korea. The most recent outbreak of RSV in eastern China in 2000 caused significant losses and raised serious concerns. In this paper, we provide a genotyping profile of RSV field isolates and describe the population structure of RSV in China, based on the nucleotide sequences of isolates collected from different geographical regions during 1997-2004. RSV isolates could be divided into two or three subtypes, depending on which gene was analysed. The genetic distances between subtypes range from 0.050 to 0.067. The population from eastern China is composed only of subtype I/IB isolates. In contrast, the population from Yunnan province (southwest China) is composed mainly of subtype II isolates, but also contains a small proportion of subtype I/IB isolates and subtype IA isolates. However, subpopulations collected from different districts in eastern China or Yunnan province are not genetically differentiated and show frequent gene flow. RSV genes were found to be under strong negative selection. Our data suggest that the most recent outbreak of RSV in eastern China was not due to the invasion of new RSV subtype(s). The evolutionary processes contributing to the observed genetic diversity and population structure are discussed.
19264754	Photorespiration is one of the most intensively studied topics in plant biology. While a number of mutants deficient in photorespiratory enzymes have been identified and characterized for their physiological functions, efforts on glycolate oxidase (GLO; EC 1.1.3.15) have not been so successful. This is a report about the generation of transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants carrying a GLO antisense gene driven by an estradiol-inducible promoter, which allowed for controllable suppressions of GLO and its detailed functional analyses. The GLO-suppressed plants showed typical photorespiration-deficient phenotypes. More intriguingly, it was found that a positive and linear correlation existed between GLO activities and the net photosynthetic rates (P(N)), and photoinhibition subsequently occurred once P(N) reduction surpassed 60%, indicating GLO can exert a strong regulation over photosynthesis. Various expression analyses identified that Rubisco activase was transcriptionally suppressed in the GLO-suppressed plants, consistent with the decreased Rubisco activation states. While the substrate glycolate accumulated substantially, few changes were observed for the product glyoxylate, and for some other downstream metabolites or genes as well in the transgenic plants. Further analyses revealed that isocitrate lyase and malate synthase, two key enzymes in the glyoxylate cycle, were highly up-regulated under GLO deficiency. Taken together, the results suggest that GLO is a typical photorespiratory enzyme and that it can exert a strong regulation over photosynthesis, possibly through a feed-back inhibition on Rubisco activase, and that the glyoxylate cycle may be partially activated to compensate for the photorespiratory glyoxylate when GLO is suppressed in rice.
19265555	Pollen, the male partner in the reproduction of flowering plants, comprises either two or three cells at maturity. The current knowledge of the pollen transcriptome is limited to the model plant systems Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa which have tri-cellular pollen grains at maturity. Comparative studies on pollen of other genera, particularly crop plants, are needed to understand the pollen gene networks that are subject to functional and evolutionary conservation. In this study, we used the Affymetrix Soybean GeneChip to perform transcriptional profiling on mature bi-cellular soybean pollen. Compared to the sporophyte transcriptome, the soybean pollen transcriptome revealed a restricted and unique repertoire of genes, with a significantly greater proportion of specifically expressed genes than is found in the sporophyte tissue. Comparative analysis shows that, among the 37,500 soybean transcripts addressed in this study, 10,299 transcripts (27.46%) are expressed in pollen. Of the pollen-expressed sequences, about 9,489 (92.13%) are also expressed in sporophytic tissues, and 810 (7.87%) are selectively expressed in pollen. Overall, the soybean pollen transcriptome shows an enrichment of transcription factors (mostly zinc finger family proteins), signal recognition receptors, transporters, heat shock-related proteins and members of the ubiquitin proteasome proteolytic pathway. This is the first report of a soybean pollen transcriptional profile. These data extend our current knowledge regarding regulatory pathways that govern the gene regulation and development of pollen. A comparison between transcription factors up-regulated in soybean and those in Arabidopsis revealed some divergence in the numbers and kinds of regulatory proteins expressed in both species.
19265921	Two isolates of Pratylenchus coffeae were collected from coffee roots (in Marília, São Paulo State, Brazil) and Aglaonema (in Rio de Janeiro City, Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil) and maintained in the laboratory on alfalfa callus. Twenty-four plants were tested in the greenhouse to characterize the host preference of these isolates. The host ranges of the isolates differed from each other and, interestingly, coffee, banana, and citrus were not among the better hosts of either isolate. Rather, sorghum, maize, rice, millet, okra, melon, eggplant, and lettuce were the best hosts of the Marília isolate. Poor hosts included French marigold, Rangpur lime, banana, sesame, peanut, sunflower, cotton, French bean, onion, and small onion. The best hosts of the Rio de Janeiro isolate were sesame, soybean, sorghum, castor oil plant, watermelon, squash, eggplant, and melon; the poorest hosts were French marigold, coffee, Rangpur lime, banana, sunflower, peanut, maize, millet, French bean, cotton, onion, sweet pepper, lettuce, okra, and small onion. These isolates have important molecular and morphological differences, suggesting host preference is linked to these characteristics.
19265949	A cyst nematode, Heterodera goldeni n. sp., is photographed and described from Qasabagrass roots (Panicum coloratum L.) in Alexandria, Egypt. It is characterized in having second-stage juveniles with body length of 546 microm (450-612), stylet length of 22.6 microm (22-23.5) with anchor-shaped knobs, lateral field with 3 lines, tail 60-75 microm, hyaline tail terminus 38.4 microm (33-43); cysts are lemon-shaped, dark to light brown with an extensive sub-crystalline layer covering the entire cyst, cuticular midbody pattern zig-zag, cysts ambifenestrate, well-developed underbridge with finger-like projections, bullae present, vulva slit measuring 44-48 microm long. Males are absent, and females have heavy punctations on the cuticle. Its relationship to H. graminophila described from Florida and Louisiana and H. leuceilyma described from Florida are discussed. The present known distribution is restricted to Alexandria, Egypt. Its economic importance in rangeland grasses and cultivated crops such as rice is not known.
19266135	The acute toxicity of glyphosate herbicide was tested on the four species of freshwater phytoplankton, Scenedesmus acutus, Scenedesmus subspicatus, Chlorella vulgaris and Chlorella saccharophila. Herbicide concentrations eliciting a 50% growth reduction over 72 h (EC(50)) ranged from 24.5 to 41.7 mg L(-1), whilst a 10% growth inhibition is achieved by herbicide concentrations ranging from 1.6 to 3.0 mg L(-1), difficult to find neither in paddy fields (it is not used in rice) nor in the lake of the Albufera Natural Park. Chorella species are less sensitive to the herbicide than Scenedesmus species. It can be concluded that glyphosate has a low potential risk for the tested organisms.
19266169	Aux/IAA and auxin response factor (ARF) are two important families that have been well recognized for their roles in auxin-mediated responses. Aux/IAA proteins are short-lived transcriptional regulators that mediate the auxin responses through interaction with ARF transcription factors. Although quite a few members of the Aux/IAA family have been functionally characterized in dicotyledonous plants such as Arabidopsis, but relatively limited information is available in important crops such as rice. This work focused on isolation and characterization of a member of Aux/IAA family in rice named OsIAA1. The results indicated that OsIAA1 was constitutively expressed in all the tissues and organs investigated. The expression of this gene was induced by various phytohormones including IAA, 2,4-D, kinetin, 24-epibrassinolide, and jasmonic acid. Over-expression of OsIAA1 in rice resulted in reduced inhibition of root elongation to auxin treatment, but increased sensitivity to 24-epiBL treatment. In addition, the OsIAA1-overexpression transgenic plants showed distinctive morphological changes such as decreased plant height and loose plant architecture. Protein interaction analysis suggested that OsIAA1 may act through interaction with OsARF1. T-DNA insertion mutant of OsARF1 showed reduced sensitivity to BR treatment, resembling the phenotype of OsIAA1-overexpression plants. In addition, expression patterns of some genes responsive to brassinosteroid and auxin were changed in the OsIAA1-overexpression plants. These data suggested that OsIAA1 may play important roles in the cross-talk of auxin and brassinosteroid signaling pathways and plant morphogenesis.
19266222	Mabinlin II is one of the major sweet proteins stored in the seeds of Capparis masaikai Lévl. Its promoter region (779 bp) located 5' upstream of the mabinlin II gene has been isolated and named as MBL-779 (GenBank accession number, EU014073). This promoter contains two typical TATA box regions and a series of motifs related to seed-specific promoters, such as ACGT motifs, RY motif, napin motif, and G box. The MBL-779 promoter drove GUS gene to transiently express in the embryos of bean, maize, and rice seeds or to constantly express in the embryos and anthers of the transgenic Arabidopsis. The MBL-779 promoter regulated gene expression from approximately the 12th day and peaked on approximately the 16th day after flowering in Arabidopsis. The -300-bp promoter region is a minimal sequence required to functionally regulate gene expression. The CAATs at -325 to -322 bp and -419 to -416 bp and the region at -485 to -770 bp play a role in the quantitative regulation of gene expression. The RY motif, CATGAC, at -117 to -112 bp and the ACGT within the G box (CACGTG) at -126 to -123 bp positively regulate gene expression.
1926781	Rice tungro disease is caused by an infection of two different viruses, rice tungro spherical virus (a (+) sense RNA virus) and rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) with a genome of circular double-stranded DNA. The genome of an RTBV isolate from the Philippines was cloned, sequenced, and found to be 8000 bp in length. It contains four open reading frames (ORFs) on a single strand, with ORF 1 having an internal termination codon (TAA). The 5' and 3' ends of a polyadenylated viral RNA transcript, of genome length, were mapped by primer extension and cDNA sequence analysis, respectively. The transcript is terminally redundant by 265-268 nucleotides. Purified virus particles contain two major proteins with molecular masses of 37 and 33 kDa, although only the 37-kDa protein was detected in the infected rice tissues. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of the 33-kDa protein was determined and its coding region was identified on the RTBV genome. The identity of the coat protein gene was further confirmed by expressing a region of the genome in Escherichia coli, the products of which reacted with anti-RTBV antibody. The unusually long ORF 3 of RTBV is predicted to encode a polyprotein of 194.1 kDa that includes: the coat protein(s), viral proteinase, reverse transcriptase, and ribonuclease H. The sections of the polyprotein show varying degrees of similarity to the counterparts of Commelina yellow mottle virus (a member of the proposed badnavirus group) and caulimoviruses. The functions of the other three ORFs are unknown.
19267902	Lignin is a phenolic heteropolymer in secondary cell walls that plays a major role in the development of plants and their defense against pathogens. The biosynthesis of monolignols, which represent the main component of lignin involves many enzymes. The cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) is a key enzyme in lignin biosynthesis as it catalyzes the final step in the synthesis of monolignols. The CAD gene family has been studied in Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa and partially in Populus. This is the first comprehensive study on the CAD gene family in woody plants including genome organization, gene structure, phylogeny across land plant lineages, and expression profiling in Populus. The phylogenetic analyses showed that CAD genes fall into three main classes (clades), one of which is represented by CAD sequences from gymnosperms and angiosperms. The other two clades are represented by sequences only from angiosperms. All Populus CAD genes, except PoptrCAD 4 are distributed in Class II and Class III. CAD genes associated with xylem development (PoptrCAD 4 and PoptrCAD 10) belong to Class I and Class II. Most of the CAD genes are physically distributed on duplicated blocks and are still in conserved locations on the homeologous duplicated blocks. Promoter analysis of CAD genes revealed several motifs involved in gene expression modulation under various biological and physiological processes. The CAD genes showed different expression patterns in poplar with only two genes preferentially expressed in xylem tissues during lignin biosynthesis. The phylogeny of CAD genes suggests that the radiation of this gene family may have occurred in the early ancestry of angiosperms. Gene distribution on the chromosomes of Populus showed that both large scale and tandem duplications contributed significantly to the CAD gene family expansion. The duplication of several CAD genes seems to be associated with a genome duplication event that happened in the ancestor of Salicaceae. Phylogenetic analyses associated with expression profiling and results from previous studies suggest that CAD genes involved in wood development belong to Class I and Class II. The other CAD genes from Class II and Class III may function in plant tissues under biotic stresses. The conservation of most duplicated CAD genes, the differential distribution of motifs in their promoter regions, and the divergence of their expression profiles in various tissues of Populus plants indicate that genes in the CAD family have evolved tissue-specialized expression profiles and may have divergent functions.
19268060	The term food allergy refers to the immune reaction (mediated by IgE or otherwise) that develops in response to the ingestion of a concrete type of food. Among the different potential manifestations of an allergic reaction, those exclusively affecting the gastrointestinal system are described. In recent years, the study of non-IgE-mediated food allergy has grown in relevance. These disorders are almost always of a transient nature, inherent to (though not exclusive of) nursing infants, and with gastrointestinal symptoms that may have variable repercussions upon the nutritional state of the patient. The prevalence of such reactions is not known, though some studies report that up to 60 % of all cases of allergy to cow's milk proteins (CMPs) are due to non-IgE-mediated mechanisms. The latency period between the time of ingestion and the appearance of the first clinical manifestations is greater than in the case of IgE-mediated reactions, and the underlying immunopathological mechanism has not been clearly established although it is accepted that T cell mediation is involved. The gastrointestinal problems derived from these delayed or chronic reactions comprise allergic proctocolitis, enterocolitis and food protein enteropathies. These digestive disorders tend to appear in the first months of life, and are of a progressive and generally self-limiting nature, with resolution at about two years of age. The most commonly implicated food is milk and, in our setting, there have also been reports implicating fish, egg and rice although such reactions can be triggered by any protein introduced into the infant diet. These manifestations disappear after removing the causal protein from the diet. When the causal proteins are CMPs, a highly hydrolysed infant formula is supplied as substitute, and if the latter is not tolerated, an elemental amino acid-based formula is prescribed.
19268582	A carbon/silica composite designed for use under compressive loads was fabricated from rice husk (RH), an agricultural waste material. RH was pulverized by using a planetary ball mill, then carbonized and molded into the precursor by means of hot-pressing without using any binders. A compression of 100 MPa was intermittently applied to the RH powder heated from room temperature to 150 degrees C, and then to 280 degrees C. The precursor, the bulk density of which was 1.37 g/cm(3), was sintered for further densification at up to 1400 degrees C without compression, in nitrogen gas. The smaller particle size of the pulverized RH was beneficial for densifying the carbon/silica composite and increasing its compressive strength. Sintering at 800 degrees C for 1h in nitrogen gas provided the maximum bulk density of 1.52 g/cm(3) and the maximum Vickers hardness at the surface of 343 HV. The maximum compressive strength was measured to be 55.7 MPa using a sintering temperature of 1200 degrees C.
19269003	A field experiment was conducted to study the effect of timing of joint application of urease inhibitor hydroquinone (HQ) and nitrification inhibitor dicyandiamide (DCD) on N(2)O emission from irrigated lowland rice paddy field. Four treatments including Treatment CK (the control with urea alone), HQ/DCD-1 (application of HQ and DCD together with fertilizer before transplanting), HQ/DCD-2 (HQ and DCD with fertilizer at tillering stage) and HQ/DCD-3 (HQ and DCD with fertilizer at panicle initiation stage) were designed and implemented separately during rice growth period. Seasonal peaks of N(2)O flux occurred during midseason drainage and significant negative correlation between N(2)O flux and water layer depth was observed (r=-0.69 to -0.75, P<0.01). Mean N(2)O flux was the highest in the control with urea alone, while joint addition of HQ and DCD with urea lowered mean N(2)O flux considerably (P<0.05). Total N(2)O emission during rice growth season in Treatment CK, HQ/DCD-1, HQ/DCD-2 and HQ/DCD-3 was 3.90, 2.98, 1.73 and 3.23kgN(2)O-N ha(-1), respectively. Application of HQ and DCD together with basal fertilizer, tillering fertilizer and panicle initiation fertilizer decreased the total N(2)O emission by 24%, 56% and 17%, respectively, while increased grain yield by 10%, 18% and 6%, respectively. Effect of application of inhibitors on N(2)O emission during the continuous period from incorporation of HQ and DCD to rice harvest was also studied, where results indicating that the highest inhibiting efficiency of inhibitors on N(2)O emission was recorded when HQ and DCD applied with fertilizer at tillering stage.
19269313	Phosphorus is one of the most important elements that significantly affect plant growth and metabolism. Among the macro-nutrients, phosphorus is the least available to the plants as major phosphorus content of the fertiliser is sorbed by soil particles. An increased knowledge of the regulatory mechanisms controlling plant's phosphorus status is vital for improving phosphorus uptake and P-use efficiency and for reducing excessive input of fertilisers, while maintaining an acceptable yield. Phosphorus use efficiency has been studied using forward and reverse genetic analyses of mutants, quantitative genomic approaches and whole plant physiology but all these studies need to be integrated for a clearer understanding. We provide a critical overview on the molecular mechanisms and the components involved in the plant during phosphorus starvation. Then we summarize the information available on the genes and QTLs involved in phosphorus signalling and also the methods to estimate total phosphate in plant tissue. Also, an effort is made to build a comprehensive picture of phosphorus uptake, homeostasis, assimilation, remobilization, its deposition in the grain and its interaction with other micro- and macro-nutrients as well as phytohormones.
19269590	The application of rice wine on skin is known to have beneficial effects such as enhancement of the skin barrier function and skin whitening. In this study, we focused on examination of the anti-aging effects of rice wine. The treatment of fibroblasts with rice wine in vitro increased the expression of procollagen and laminin-5, a key basement membrane component in cultured human fibroblasts. Rice wine significantly reduced the expression of UV-induced matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) in a dose-dependent manner in both cultured human fibroblasts and keratinocytes. In addition, treatment with rice wine decreased UV-induced tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production in human keratinocytes. An in vivo study using hairless mice showed that topical application of rice wine protected mouse skin from photoaging. Thus, we suggest that rice wine may have potential as an effective agent for the prevention and treatment of UV-induced skin aging.
19269811	The pyrolysis bio-oil from rice husk was upgraded in sub- and super-critical ethanol using HZSM-5 as catalyst. The results showed that super-critical upgrading process performed more effectively than sub-critical upgrading process. Acidic HZSM-5 facilitates esterification in super-critical ethanol to convert acids contained in crude bio-oil into various kinds of esters. Stronger acidic HZSM-5 (low Si/Al ratio) can facilitate cracking of heavy components of crude bio-oil more effectively in super-critical upgrading process. The residue of distillated upgraded bio-oil from super-critical upgrading process decreased evidently, compared with that of distillated crude bio-oil. This work proved that crude bio-oil can be effectively upgraded in super-critical upgrading process with the aid of acidic catalyst.
19270311	Although quantitative traits loci (QTL) analysis has been widely performed to isolate agronomically important genes, it has been difficult to obtain molecular markers between individuals with similar phenotypes (assortative mating). Recently, the miniature inverted-repeat transposable element mPing was shown to be active in the japonica strain Gimbozu EG4 where it had accumulated more than 1000 copies. In contrast, most other japonicas, including Nipponbare, have 50 or fewer mPing insertions in their genome. In this study we have exploited the polymorphism of mPing insertion sites to generate 150 PCR markers in a cross between the closely related japonicas, Nipponbare x Gimbozu (EG4). These new markers were distributed in genic regions of the whole genome and showed significantly higher polymorphism (150 of 183) than all other molecular markers tested including short sequence repeat markers (46 of 661). In addition, we performed QTL analysis with these markers using recombinant inbred lines derived from Nipponbare x Gimbozu EG4, and successfully mapped a locus involved in heading date on the short arm of chromosome 6. Moreover, we could easily map two novel loci involved in the culm length on the short arms of chromosomes 3 and 10.
19270400	In vitro assays using recombinant enzymes enabled three cDNAs encoding ent-copalyl diphosphate synthases to be identified in wheat (Triticum aestivum): TaCPS1, TaCPS2, and TaCPS3. The phylogenetic tree and expression analyses suggest that TaCPS3 is responsible for gibberellin biosynthesis, while TaCPS1 and TaCPS2 are possible functional homologs of diterpene cyclase genes OsCPS2 and OsCPS4 involved in phytoalexin biosynthesis in rice.
19270925	Previous reports of crop losses to plant-parasitic nematodes have relied on published results of survey data based on certain commodities, including tobacco, peanuts, cotton, and soybean. Reports on crop-loss assessment by land-grant universities and many commodity groups generally are no longer available, with the exception of the University of Georgia, the Beltwide Cotton Conference, and selected groups concerned with soybean. The Society of Nematologists Extension Committee contacted extension personnel in 49 U.S. states for information on estimated crop losses caused by plant-parasitic nematodes in major crops for the year 1994. Included in this paper are survey results from 35 states on various crops including corn, cotton, soybean, peanut, wheat, rice, sugarcane, sorghum, tobacco, numerous vegetable crops, fruit and nut crops, and golf greens. The data are reported systematically by state and include the estimated loss, hectarage of production, source of information, nematode species or taxon when available, and crop value. The major genera of phytoparasitic nematodes reported to cause crop losses were Heterodera, Hoplolaimus, Meloidogyne, Pratylenchus, Rotylenchulus, and Xiphinema.
19270929	A simple extraction method was developed for obtaining the white tip nematode, Aphelenchoides besseyi Christie, from single seeds of rice, Oryza sativa. The method was as follows: Individual rice seeds were split longitudinally and then transferred into single pipet tips. Tips containing a split seed were then singly placed upright in glass vials with water to extract the nematodes. This method was more efficient than the Baermann funnel technique and allowed nearly 100% recovery of living A. besseyi from single rice seeds within 4 hours.
19270981	Several nematicides have been used to disinfest rice seeds contaminated with the white tip nematode, Aphelenchoides besseyi. We measured the efficacy of a standard disinfestation treatment that consists of soaking seeds in an aqueous emulsion of fenitrothion or fenthion and subsequently air-drying the seeds. We also measured the efficacy of the same treatments but without addition of nematicide to the soak water. Viability was monitored at key points during treatment. Our results showed that nematicides alone caused little nematode mortality within seeds. Most mortality occurred while seeds were being air-dried. Mortality caused by air-drying alone was 1.7 times greater than mortality caused by soaking seeds in water for 24 hours.
19270982	The effects of different water regimes on the pathogenicity of Meloidogyne graminicola on six rice cultivars were determined in two soil types in three greenhouse experiments. Two water regimes, simulating continuous flooding and intermittent flooding, were used with five of the cultivars. All cultivars were susceptible to the nematode, but IR72 and IR74 were more tolerant than IR20 and IR29 under intermittent flooding. All were tolerant under continuous flooding. UPLRi-5 was grown under multiple water regimes: no flooding; continuous flooding; flooding starting at maximum tillering, panicle initiation, or booting stage; and flooding from sowing until maximum tillering or booting. In sandy loam soil, M. graminicola reduced stem and leaf dry weight, root dry weight, and grain weight under all water regimes. In clay loam soil, the nematode reduced root weight when the soil was not flooded or flooded only for a short time, from panicle initiation, or booting to maturity, and from sowing to maximum tillering. In clay loam soil, stem and leaf dry weight, as well as grain weight, were reduced by the nematode under all water regimes except continuous flooding or when the soil was flooded from sowing to booting stage. These results indicate that rice cultivar tolerance of M. graminicola varies with water regime and that yield losses due to M. graminicola may be prevented or minimized when the rice crop is flooded early and kept flooded until a late stage of development.
19271717	The endophytic fungus Stemphylium globuliferum was isolated from stem tissues of the Moroccan medicinal plant Mentha pulegium. Extracts of the fungus, which was grown on solid rice medium, exhibited considerable cytotoxicity when tested in vitro against L5178Y cells. Chemical investigation yielded five new secondary metabolites, alterporriol G (4) and its atropisomer alterporriol H (5), altersolanol K (11), altersolanol L (12), stemphypyrone (13), and the known compounds 6-O-methylalaternin (1), macrosporin (2), altersolanol A (3), alterporriol E (6), alterporriol D (7), alterporriol A (8), alterporriol B (9), and altersolanol J (10). The structures were determined on the basis of one- and two-dimensional NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. Among the alterporriol-type anthranoid dimers, the mixture of alterporriols G and H (4/5) exhibited considerable cytotoxicity against L5178Y cells with an EC(50) value of 2.7 microg/mL, whereas the other congeners showed only modest activity. The compounds were also tested for kinase inhibitory activity in an assay involving 24 different kinases. Compounds 1, 2, 3, and the mixture of 4 and 5 were the most potent inhibitors, displaying EC(50) values between 0.64 and 1.4 microg/mL toward individual kinases.
19271955	Over recent decades, many pathogenicity genes of Magnaporthe oryzae have been identified but only a very limited number of genes have been identified that encode components of the conidiogenesis pathway. We report here a T-DNA insertional mutant that completely lost conidiation ability. Further investigation revealed that this mutant did not develop any conidiophore, and that the T-DNA was integrated into an annotated gene designated as conidiophore stalk-less1 or COS1. Complementation experiments suggested that COS1 may be a determinant of conidiation. Sequence analysis revealed that COS1 putatively encodes a 491-amino-acid zinc-finger protein and the protein was revealed localized to nucleus. Reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)-based expression analysis indicated that two homologues of conidiophore-related genes were affected by the cos1 mutation, suggesting that Cos1 may function as a transcriptional regulator controlling genes responsible for conidiation. Inoculations of rice roots and wounded leaves with mycelia suggested that COS1 is not required for pathogenicity. Moreover, mutation of COS1 may aggravate infection of wounded leaves. Interestingly, different from the wild-type strain, mycelia of the cos1 mutant successfully infected host cells and caused visible symptoms on unwounded leaf blades and sheaths, indicating that Cos1 may have a role in some unknown mechanism of mycelial infection of M. oryzae.
19271956	The Magnaporthe oryzae avirulence gene AvrPiz-t activates immunity in a gene-for-gene fashion to rice mediated by the blast resistance gene Piz-t. To dissect the molecular mechanism underlying their recognition, we initiated the cloning of AvrPiz-t using a map-based cloning strategy. The AvrPiz-t gene was delimited to an approximately 21-kb genomic fragment, in which six genes were predicted. Complementation tests of each of these six candidate genes led to the final identification of AvrPiz-t, which encodes a 108-amino-acid predicted secreted protein with unknown function and no homologues in M. oryzae or in other sequenced fungi. We found that AvrPiz-t is present in the virulent isolate GUY11 but contains a Pot3 insertion at a position 462 bp upstream from the start codon. Complementation tests of AvrPiz-t genes driven by promoters of varying length revealed that a promoter larger than 462 bp is essential to maintain the AvrPiz-t function. These results suggest that a Pot3 insertion in GUY11 might interfere with the proper function of AvrPiz-t. Additionally, we found that AvrPiz-t can suppress the programmed cell death triggered by mouse BAX protein in Nicotiana benthamiana, identifying a mechanism by which AvrPiz-t may contribute virulence of M. oryzae.
19272632	This study aims to compare the performance of planted and unplanted constructed wetlands with gravel- and raw rice husk-based media for phenol and nitrogen removal. Four laboratory-scale horizontal subsurface-flow constructed wetland units, two of which planted with cattail (Typha latifolia) were operated outdoors. The units were operated at a nominal hydraulic retention time of 7 days and fed with domestic wastewater spiked with phenol concentration at 300 mg/L for 74 days and then at 500 mg/L for 198 days. The results show that planted wetland units performed better than the unplanted ones in the removal and mineralization of phenol. This was explained by the creation of more micro-aerobic zones in the root zone of the wetland plants which allow a faster rate of phenol biodegradation, and the phenol uptake by plants. The better performance of the rice husk-based planted wetland compared to that of the gravel-based planted wetland in phenol removal could be explained by the observation that more rhizomes were established in the rice husk-based wetland unit thus creating more micro-aerobic zones for phenol degradation. The role of rice husk as an adsorbent in phenol removal was considered not of importance.
19273428	SET(Su(var), Enhancer of zeste (E(z)), and Trithorax) domain protein family members share the conserved SET domain. They participate in protein methylation, chromosome structure adjustment, and gene expression regulation, and play important roles in plant development. In this study, bioinformatics analysis identified 47 and 43 SET domain genes in Arabidopsis and rice, respectively. A comprehensive overview of this gene family was presented, including the gene structure, phylogeny, chromosome distribution, and conserved motifs. As a result, the SET domain genes were organized into 5 subfamilies on basis of phylogenetic relationship. Chromosome localization and gene duplication analysis showed that segmental and retrotransposition-like event may result in the SET domain gene expansion. By analyzing the developmental expression pattern of SET domain genes in Arabidopsis and rice, most of the SET domain genes were shown to be expressed in at least one tissue with the most expression in flower and pollen. Some genes showed specific expression patterns in certain tissues at certain stages, suggesting that they were closely related to tissue development. Differentially expressed genes were discovered in Arabidopsis and rice. All of the 4 differentially expressed genes in Arabidopsis were highly expressed in mature pollen. Three of the 4 differentially expressed genes in rice were highly expressed in stamen and the remaining one in young panicle.
19273445	SARII-628 is one of the natural twin-seedling populations, which are maintained in Rice Institution of Sichuan Agricultural University. Haploid-diploid (n: 2n) twin-seedlings can annually emerge from SARII-628. In this study, cDNA-AFLP technique was applied for these haploid and diploid plants. The double stranded cDNA were synthesized from the total RNAs of the roots, stems, panicles, and leaves of three haploid and one diploid plants. Then, EcoRI/MspI combination was chosen for expression difference analysis with cDNA-AFLP technique among the 16 samples. Thirty pairs of primers were selected to amplify 633 loci. Among them, 49 loci were differently expressed. As shown by cDNA-AFLP, the expression levels of haploids were different among individuals but not significant. The average ratio of sensitive loci (activated loci + silenced loci) in haploids was 5.14%, which was higher than that of diploid (3.93%). According to the presence or absence of the bands in root, stem, panicle, and leaf, out of the 14 types of amplified patterns, only 4 exclusively occurred in haploid and the corresponding loci were thus haploid-specific in expression. The collecting analysis for the silenced and activated loci among different organs of the three haploids revealed that the silenced loci were more than the activated ones in roots and panicles. An opposite trend was observed in panicles and leaves. However, the total number of the activated loci in all the four types of haploid organs was more than that of the silenced loci. The number of sensitive loci is the highest in root, while that in panicle is the least, which suggested that gene expressions were organ-specific.
19274788	Assess the safety of rapid intravenous rehydration of severely malnourished children and compare the efficacy of 3 formulations of oral rehydration salts solutions. A group of 175 severely malnourished children of either sex (weight/length <70% of National Center for Health Statistics median), ages 6 to 36 months with cholera, were randomly assigned to receive 1 of 3 oral rehydration solutions (ORSs): glucose-ORS (n=58), glucose-ORS plus 50 g/L of amylase-resistant starch (n=59), or rice-ORS (n=58). Severely dehydrated children at enrollment were administered 100 mL/kg of an intravenous solution for 4 to 6 hours before randomisation, and those with some dehydration were randomised on enrollment. The electrolytes of the 3 ORSs were identical. In acute and convalescence phases, treatment was similar other than the nature of the ORSs. Intravenous fluid (mean) administered to 149 study children was 103 mL/kg (95% confidence interval [CI] 96-109), and all were rehydrated within 6 hours. None of them developed overhydration or heart failure. During the first 24 hours, stool output (31%; 95% CI 14%-42%; P=0.004) and the ORS intake (26%; 95% CI 12%-37%; P=0.002) of children receiving rice-ORS were significantly less compared with children receiving glucose-ORS. The mean duration of diarrhoea in all children (66 hours; 95% CI 62-71), and time to attain 80% of median weight/length (7.15+/-2.81 days) were not different. Dehydration in severely malnourished children can safely be corrected within 6 hours. All study ORSs were equally efficient in correcting dehydration. Rice-ORS significantly reduced the stool output and ORS intake, confirming previous reports.
19277136	An approach based on image analysis that enables rapid collection and analysis of nematode size and shape during growth is reported. This technique has been applied to assess Meloidogyne incognita and Globodera pallida during their development over 35 and 42 days, respectively, on transgenic tomato roots expressing the wild-type rice cystatin Oc-I or an engineered variant, Oc-IAD86. Morphometric values were established that subdivided enlarged saccate females from other life stages. Analysis of this data subset indicates that the size of females and the frequency with which they parasitize roots expressing a cystatin are reduced. Results also demonstrate that cystatins can influence the growth of G. pallida prior to the adult stage. Similar image analysis procedures should be generally applicable to the study of host status or erivironmental factors that influence growth rates of plant-parasitic nematodes.
19277514
19277718	Drought is detrimental to plant growth and development, and often results in significant losses to the yields of economically important crops such as soybeans (Glycine max L.). NAC transcription factors (TFs), which consist of a large family of plant-specific TFs, have been reported to enhance drought tolerance in a number of plants. In this study, 31 unigenes that contain the complete open reading frames encoding GmNAC proteins were identified and cloned from soybean. Analysis of C-terminal regulatory domain using yeast one-hybrid system indicated that among 31 GmNAC proteins, 28 have transcriptional activation activity. Expression analysis of these GmNAC genes showed that they are differentially expressed in different organs, suggesting that they have diverse functions during plant growth and development. To search for the drought-inducible GmNAC genes, we prescreened and re-confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR analysis that nine GmNAC genes are induced by dehydration stress with differential induction levels in both shoot and root. The expression profiles of these nine GmNAC genes were also examined under other stresses such as high salinity, cold and with abscisic acid hormone treatments. Phylogenetic analysis of the GmNAC proteins with previously reported drought-inducible NAC proteins of Arabidopsis and rice revealed that the nine drought-inducible GmNAC proteins belong to the "stress-inducible" NAC group. The results of this systematic analysis of the GmNAC family will provide novel tools and resources for the development of improved drought tolerant transgenic soybean cultivars.
19277738	We have previously shown that Oryza sativa L. Pokkali maintains higher levels of transcripts under non-saline conditions, which are otherwise induced under salinity in the sensitive genotype-IR64. We wanted to test this hypothesis of differential gene regulation further, within the members of a given stress responsive gene family, which share significant structural and functional similarities. For this purpose, we chose to work on the two-component system (TCS family) which plays an important role in stress perception and signal transduction under hormonal, abiotic stress, light and developmental regulation. We present data to show that all members of TCS family, including sensory histidine kinases, phosphotransfer proteins and response regulators, are having differential transcript abundance (under both non-stress and salinity stress conditions) in contrasting rice genotypes. Further, under non-stress conditions, transcript abundance for all TCS members (except RR21) was found to be higher in the salt-tolerant genotype-Pokkali. TCS transcripts are otherwise induced by salinity stress to a relatively higher level in the sensitive cultivar IR64. A few of these members were also found to be localised within important salinity-related quantitative trait loci identified earlier. Based on the above findings, we propose that the TCS members may have a significant role in salinity tolerance in rice and can serve as useful 'candidate genes' for raising salinity-tolerant crop plants.
19277876	The Hsp20 genes represent the most abundant small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) in plants. Hsp20 gene family has been shown to be involved in preventing heat shock and promoting resistance to environmental stress factors, but very little is known about this gene family in rice. Here, we report the identification and characterization of 39 OsHsp20 genes in rice, describing the gene structure, gene expression, genome localization, and phylogenetic relationship of each member. We have used RT-PCR to perform a characterization of the normal and heat shock-induced expression of selective OsHsp20 genes. A genome-wide microarray based gene expression analysis involving 25 stages of vegetative and reproductive development in three rice cultivars has revealed that 36 OsHsp20 genes were expressed in at least one of the experimental stages studied. Among these, transcripts of OsHsp20 were accumulated differentially during vegetative and reproductive developmental stages and preferentially down-regulated in Shanyou 63. In addition, OsHsp20 genes were identified as showing prominent heterosis in family-level expression. Our results suggest that the expression patterns of the OsHsp20 genes are diversified not only in developmental stages but also in variety level.
19277883	A representative agricultural area of 150 ha located in a protected ecosystem (Axios River Delta, Thermaikos Gulf-N. Aegean, Greece) was selected in order to investigate water quality parameters [pH, electrical conductivity (EC(w)), NO(3)-N, NH(4)-N, total phosphorus (TP)] in irrigation and drainage water. In the study area, the cultivated crops are mainly rice, maize, cotton, and fodder. Surface irrigation methods are applied using open channels network, and irrigation water is supplied by Axios River, which is facing pollution problems. The return flow from surface runoff and the surplus of irrigation water are collected to drainage network and disposed to Thermaikos Gulf. A 2-year study (2006-2007) was conducted in order to evaluate the effects of land use and irrigation water management on the drainage water quality. The average pH and NO(3)-N concentration was higher in the irrigation water (8.0 and 1.3 mg/L, respectively) than that in the drainage water (7.6 and 1.0 mg/L, respectively). The average EC(W), NH(4)-N, and TP concentration was higher in the drainage water (1,754 muS/cm, 90.3 microg/L, and 0.2 mg/L, respectively) than that in the irrigation water (477.1 muS/cm, 46.7 microg/L, and 0.1 mg/L, respectively). Average irrigation efficiency was estimated at 47% and 51% in 2006 and 2007 growing seasons (April-October), respectively. The loads of NO(3)-N in both seasons were higher in the irrigation water (35.1 kg/ha in 2006 and 24.9 kg/ha in 2007) than those in the drainage water (8.1 kg/ha in 2006 and 7.6 kg/ha in 2007). The load of TP was higher in the irrigation water in season 2006 (2.8 kg/ha) than that in the drainage water (1.1 kg/ha). Total phosphorus load in 2007 was equal in irrigation and drainage water (1.2 kg/ha). Wetland conditions, due to rice irrigation regime, drainage network characteristics, and the crop distribution in the study area, affect the drainage water ending in the protected ecosystem of Thermaikos Gulf.
19278227	Mildly, intermediately, and severely parboiled Jacinto [16% free amylose (FAM) content] and Puntal (26% FAM content) rice samples were submitted to differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and wide-angle X-ray diffraction (WAXD). DSC thermograms revealed ungelatinized starch only in mildly parboiled rices and retrograded amylopectin in all parboiled samples. Amylose crystallites were present in intermediately and severely parboiled samples but could not be detected due to their high melting temperature. Nonparboiled and parboiled rice DSC profiles showed only type I and type II amylose-lipid complexes, respectively. Intermediately and severely parboiled rice showed a clear V(h)-type (crystalline amylose-lipid complexes) with a superimposed B-type (retrograded amylopectin and/or amylose crystallites) pattern. The mildly parboiled samples showed a mix of A- (native starch crystallites) and V(h)-type patterns (Puntal) and A-, V(h)-, and B-type patterns (Jacinto). Mild acid hydrolysis destroyed the acid labile retrograded amylopectin crystallites and increased the relative abundance of amylose crystallites. Indeed, acid-hydrolyzed intermediately and severely parboiled samples of both cultivars showed a clear B-type diffraction pattern conclusively showing, for the first time, the presence of amylose crystallites. The melting temperature of the amylose crystallites was ca. 135 degrees C, and melting peaks were visible in the DSC thermograms of the intermediately and severely parboiled samples. Their levels depended on the degree of parboiling and FAM content.
19278556	Magnaporthe oryzae, the causal agent of blast disease of rice, is the most destructive disease of rice worldwide. The genome of this fungal pathogen has been sequenced and an automated annotation has recently been updated to Version 6 http://www.broad.mit.edu/annotation/genome/magnaporthe_grisea/MultiDownloads.html. However, a comprehensive manual curation remains to be performed. Gene Ontology (GO) annotation is a valuable means of assigning functional information using standardized vocabulary. We report an overview of the GO annotation for Version 5 of M. oryzae genome assembly. A similarity-based (i.e., computational) GO annotation with manual review was conducted, which was then integrated with a literature-based GO annotation with computational assistance. For similarity-based GO annotation a stringent reciprocal best hits method was used to identify similarity between predicted proteins of M. oryzae and GO proteins from multiple organisms with published associations to GO terms. Significant alignment pairs were manually reviewed. Functional assignments were further cross-validated with manually reviewed data, conserved domains, or data determined by wet lab experiments. Additionally, biological appropriateness of the functional assignments was manually checked. In total, 6,286 proteins received GO term assignment via the homology-based annotation, including 2,870 hypothetical proteins. Literature-based experimental evidence, such as microarray, MPSS, T-DNA insertion mutation, or gene knockout mutation, resulted in 2,810 proteins being annotated with GO terms. Of these, 1,673 proteins were annotated with new terms developed for Plant-Associated Microbe Gene Ontology (PAMGO). In addition, 67 experiment-determined secreted proteins were annotated with PAMGO terms. Integration of the two data sets resulted in 7,412 proteins (57%) being annotated with 1,957 distinct and specific GO terms. Unannotated proteins were assigned to the 3 root terms. The Version 5 GO annotation is publically queryable via the GO site http://amigo.geneontology.org/cgi-bin/amigo/go.cgi. Additionally, the genome of M. oryzae is constantly being refined and updated as new information is incorporated. For the latest GO annotation of Version 6 genome, please visit our website http://scotland.fgl.ncsu.edu/smeng/GoAnnotationMagnaporthegrisea.html. The preliminary GO annotation of Version 6 genome is placed at a local MySql database that is publically queryable via a user-friendly interface Adhoc Query System. Our analysis provides comprehensive and robust GO annotations of the M. oryzae genome assemblies that will be solid foundations for further functional interrogation of M. oryzae.
19279197	MYB transcription factors play central roles in plant responses to abiotic stresses. How stress affects development is poorly understood. Here, we show that OsMYB3R-2 functions in both stress and developmental processes in rice (Oryza sativa). Transgenic plants overexpressing OsMYB3R-2 exhibited enhanced cold tolerance. Cold treatment greatly induced the expression of OsMYB3R-2, which encodes an active transcription factor. We show that OsMYB3R-2 specifically bound to a mitosis-specific activator cis-element, (T/C)C(T/C)AACGG(T/C)(T/C)A, a conserved sequence that was found in promoters of cyclin genes such as OsCycB1;1 and OsKNOLLE2. In addition, overexpression of OsMYB3R-2 in rice led to higher transcript levels of several G2/M phase-specific genes, including OsCycB1;1, OsCycB2;1, OsCycB2;2, and OsCDC20.1, than those in OsMYB3R-2 antisense lines or wild-type plants in response to cold treatment. Flow cytometry analysis revealed an increased cell mitotic index in overexpressed transgenic lines of OsMYB3R-2 after cold treatment. Furthermore, resistance to cold stress in the transgenic plants overexpressing OsCycB1;1 was also enhanced. The level of cellular free proline was increased in the overexpressed rice lines of OsMYB3R-2 and OsCycB1;1 transgenic plants compared with wild-type plants under the cold treatment. These results suggest that OsMYB3R-2 targets OsCycB1;1 and regulates the progress of the cell cycle during chilling stress. OsCPT1, which may be involved in the dehydration-responsive element-binding factor 1A pathway, showed the same transcription pattern in response to cold as did OsCycB1;1 in transgenic rice. Therefore, a cold resistance mechanism in rice could be mediated by regulating the cell cycle, which is controlled by key genes including OsMYB3R-2.
19279202	Auxins are hormones that regulate many aspects of plant growth and development. The main plant auxin is indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), whose biosynthetic pathway is not fully understood. Indole-3-acetaldoxime (IAOx) has been proposed to be a key intermediate in the synthesis of IAA and several other indolic compounds. Genetic studies of IAA biosynthesis in Arabidopsis have suggested that 2 distinct pathways involving the CYP79B or YUCCA (YUC) genes may contribute to IAOx synthesis and that several pathways are also involved in the conversion of IAOx to IAA. Here we report the biochemical dissection of IAOx biosynthesis and metabolism in plants by analyzing IAA biosynthesis intermediates. We demonstrated that the majority of IAOx is produced by CYP79B genes in Arabidopsis because IAOx production was abolished in CYP79B-deficient mutants. IAOx was not detected from rice, maize, and tobacco, which do not have apparent CYP79B orthologues. IAOx levels were not significantly altered in the yuc1 yuc2 yuc4 yuc6 quadruple mutants, suggesting that the YUC gene family probably does not contribute to IAOx synthesis. We determined the pathway for conversion of IAOx to IAA by identifying 2 likely intermediates, indole-3-acetamide (IAM) and indole-3-acetonitrile (IAN), in Arabidopsis. When (13)C(6)-labeled IAOx was fed to CYP79B-deficient mutants, (13)C(6) atoms were efficiently incorporated to IAM, IAN, and IAA. This biochemical evidence indicates that IAOx-dependent IAA biosynthesis, which involves IAM and IAN as intermediates, is not a common but a species-specific pathway in plants; thus IAA biosynthesis may differ among plant species.
19279769	Correspondence analyses were used to explore the relationships between yield and populations of Pratylenchus zeae in an upland rice field and in a greenhouse experiment. Initial soil (Pi) and final root (Pf) population densities of P. zeae, and yield (Y) of rice cv. UPL Ri5 were determined at 490 spots in the field. Very low Y was linked to very high Pf. Low Y was linked to medium or high Pi and medium Pf. Medium to very high Y were clustered with undetectable Pi and very low or high Pf. All yield levels were independent of very high Pi. In the greenhouse experiment where seven nematode inoculum levels and three fertilizer levels were evaluated, low Y was associated with medium or high Pf and high Y with high or low Pf. The analyses indicated that nematode-yield interaction involved a complex, dynamic process, in which the root-carrying capacity probably was a determining factor. Correspondence analysis, which does not require assumptions on the shape of nematode population-yield relationships or on variable distributions, revealed meaningful associations in these complex data sets.
19279820	Meloidogyne sasseri n. sp. is described and illustrated from American beachgrass (Ammophila breviliffulata) originally collected from Henlopen State Park and Fenwick Island near the Maryland state line in Delaware, United States (6). Its relationship to M. graminis, M. spartinae, and M. californiensis is discussed. Primary distinctive characters of the female perineal pattern were a high to rounded arch with shoulders, widely spaced lateral lines interrupting transverse striations, a sunken vulva and anus, and coarse broken striae around the anal area. Second-stage juvenile body length was 554 mum (470-550), stylet length 14 mum (13-14.5), tail length 93 mum (83-115), tapering to a finely rounded terminus. Male stylet length 20 mum (19-21.5), spicule length 33 mum (30-36). Scanning electron microscope observations provided additional details of perineal patterns and face views of the female, male, and J2 head. Wheat, rice, oat, Ammophila sp., Panicum sp., bermudagrass, zoysiagrass and St. Augustinegrass were tested as hosts. Distribution of the species was the coasts of Delaware and Maryland. The common name "beachgrass root-knot" is proposed for M. sasseri n. sp.
19279933	Effects of rice-cultured Paecilomyces lilacinus on Rotylenchulus reniformis were studied in both greenhouse and field microplot tests with 'Rutgers' tomato. Numbers of R. reniformis were reduced (P </= 0.05) by P. lilacinus, with suppression in the initial greenhouse test ranging from 46 to 48% for two rice + P. lilacinus treatments; the rice-only treatment caused a nonsignificant reduction of 25%. In the second greenhouse test, total R. reniformis numbers were restricted (P </= 0.05) by 41% by the rice + P. lilacinus treatment, whereas the rice-only treatment had a slight negative effect (16% inhibition, NS). Total numbers of R. reniformis were suppressed 59 and 36% at midseason and harvest, respectively, in microplots infested with P. lilacinus. The fungus was recovered from egg masses via isolations in the second greenhouse test. Shoot and fruit growth of Rutgers tomato were restricted by R. reniformis in the initial greenhouse test irrespective of P. lilacinus treatment, but this nematode did not affect fresh shoot weights in the second greenhouse test, The nematode also limited shoot growth of Rutgers tomato in microplots, and P. lilacinus suppressed R. reniformis numbers sufficiently to prevent related impairment of shoot and fruit growth. This study indicated that P. lilacinus has detrimental effects on R. reniformis population development under both greenhouse and field microplot conditions.
19280236	The barley sdw1/denso gene not only controls plant height but also yield and quality. The sdw1/denso gene was mapped to the long arm of chromosome 3H. Comparative genomic analysis revealed that the sdw1/denso gene was located in the syntenic region of the rice semidwarf gene sd1 on chromosome 1. The sd1 gene encodes a gibberellic acid (GA)-20 oxidase enzyme. The gene ortholog of rice sd1 was isolated from barley using polymerase chain reaction. The barley and rice genes showed a similar gene structure consisting of three exons and two introns. Both genes share 88.3% genomic sequence similarity and 89% amino acid sequence identity. A single nucleotide polymorphism was identified in intron 2 between barley varieties Baudin and AC Metcalfe with Baudin known to contain the denso semidwarf gene. The single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker was mapped to chromosome 3H in a doubled haploid population of Baudin x AC Metcalfe with 178 DH lines. Quantitative trait locus analysis revealed that plant height cosegregated with the SNP. The sdw1/denso gene in barley is the most likely ortholog of the sd1 in rice. The result will facilitate understanding of the molecular mechanism controlling semidwarf phenotype and provide a diagnostic marker for selection of semidwarf gene in barley.
19280237	Flowering time represents an important adaptive trait for temperate cereal crops and may also impact on frost damage in cereal reproductive tissues by enabling escape or by influencing accumulation of genuine tolerance. The Flowering time-2L (Flt-2L) quantitative trait locus (QTL) on the distal end of barley chromosome arm 2HL overlaps with QTL for rachis internode length and reproductive frost damage. Flt-2L was also found to be associated with plant height. By combining marker analysis with phenotyping in progeny families of selected Amagi Nijo x WI2585 F(6) recombinants, we were able to map quantitative flowering time, rachis internode length, and plant height effects on 2HL as discrete Mendelian traits. The three developmental characters showed codominant modes of expression and perfectly cosegregated with one another in a 1.3-cM marker interval, indicating control by the same gene or closely linked genes. Twelve genes were identified in the related intervals in the rice and Brachypodium distachyon genomes. The HvAP2 gene cosegregated with Flt-2L and represents a plausible candidate for Flt-2L, since it is highly similar to the wheat domestication gene Q which has similar developmental effects. These data will contribute to isolation of the Flt-2L gene(s) and help establish the basis of the frost damage QTL.
19280472	Supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) was evaluated to be applied for residue analysis of 22 gas chromatography/electron capture detector-nitrogen phosphorus detector (GC/ECD-NPD) amenable pesticides in rice, wild rice and wheat. Samples were extracted with supercritical carbon dioxide at 200 atm pressure and 50 degrees C temperature, using methanol as a static modifier. Mean recoveries obtained with the proposed SFE method at two spiking levels with four replicates per level are compared with those obtained with an ethyl acetate-based solvent extraction/gel permeation chromatography (GPC) clean up method. Both methods gave consistent high recoveries for almost all the pesticides from all the commodities with overall mean recoveries higher than 70% with relative standard deviations lower than 20%. Remarkable exceptions were captafol and dimethoate, for which low and/or non-reproducible recoveries were obtained with the SFE method. Residue levels determined with both methods in nine different incurred samples of wheat, containing some of the studied pesticides, were very similar, but, in all cases, slightly higher levels were determined with the SFE method.
19281957	In this review, we discuss the development of molecular genetics and genomics that has allowed one to identify and characterize some of the key genes involved in cereal domestication. The list is far from being complete, but the first conclusion that can be drawn from the published works is that only a few loci have been the target of human selection in the first stages of the domestication process at the late neolithic. Mutations at these few loci have led to dramatic changes in plant morphology and phenology, transforming a wild into a cultivated plant. We also show that in the case of rice, for which the complete genome sequence is available, the development of new molecular markers based on retrotransposon insertion polymorphisms helped to resolve some of the questions regarding the origin of the domestication of the crop in Asia.
19282433	The NS3 protein of rice hoja blanca virus represents a viral suppressor of RNA interference (RNAi) that sequesters small interfering (si)RNAs in vitro. To determine whether this siRNA binding property is the critical determinant for the suppressor activity of NS3, NS3 was altered by alanine point mutations and the resulting mutant proteins were tested for both siRNA binding ability and RNAi suppressor activity in plants. Alanine substitutions of lysine residues at positions 173-175 resulted in mutant proteins that lost both their affinity for siRNAs and their RNAi suppressor activity in planta. This indicates that siRNA binding of NS3 is indeed essential for the suppressor function of NS3 and that residues at positions 173-175 are involved in the siRNA binding and suppressor activities.
19282622	Postzygotic reproductive isolation (RI) often arises in inter-subspecific crosses as well as inter-specific crosses of rice (Oryza sativa L.). To further understand the genetic architecture of the postzygotic RI, we analyzed genes causing hybrid sterility and hybrid breakdown in a rice inter-subspecific cross. Here we report hybrid male sterility caused by epistatic interaction between two novel genes, S24 and S35, which were identified on rice chromosomes 5 and 1, respectively. Genetic analysis using near-isogenic lines (NILs) carrying IR24 (ssp. indica) segments with Asominori (ssp. japonica) genetic background revealed a complicated aspect of the epistasis. Allelic interaction at the S24 locus in the heterozygous plants caused abortion of male gametes carrying the Asominori allele (S24-as) independent of the S35 genotype. On the other hand, male gametes carrying the Asominori allele at the S35 locus (S35-as) showed abortion only when the IR24 allele at the S24 locus (S24-ir) was concurrently introgressed into the S35 heterozygous plants, indicating that the sterility phenotype due to S35 was dependent on the S24 genotype through negative epistasis between S24-ir and S35-as alleles. Due to the interaction between S24 and S35, self-pollination of the double heterozygous plants produced pollen-sterile progeny carrying the S24-ir/S24-ir S35-as/S35-ir genotype in addition to the S24 heterozygous plants. This result suggests that the S35 gene might function as a modifier of S24. This study presents strong evidence for the importance of epistatic interaction as a part of the genetic architecture of hybrid sterility in rice. In addition, it suggests that diverse systems have been developed as postzygotic RI mechanisms within the rice.
19283213	Four field experiments were conducted to study the effect of Sesbania rostrata and Aeschynomene afraspera as rotational and green manure crops on the population dynamics of Hirschmanniella mucronata and H. oryzae, and subsequent rice yields. The sequential cropping of the legumes with rice controlled both nematode species. In two experiments, yield of rice was related to the nematode population denisites at planting and harvesting of the second rice crop (R(2) = 0.391, P < 0.001, and R(2) = 0.57, P < 0.001), regardless of the treatments. Rice yield increases were attributed to nutritional effect of the green manure and the reduction of the nematode populations or the modification of a factor(s) linked to the nematode populations induced by their cropping. As the two leguminous crops do not generate direct return, using them to control the rice-root nematodes was not economical, despite the significant yield increase obtained.
19284523	Yusho an intoxication caused by oral dioxins and polychlorinated biphenyls occurred in 1968. Patients suffered from various systemic symptoms, including general fatigue, nausea, muscular and articular pain, acneform eruptions, black comedones, cutaneous and oral pigmentation, and increased eye discharge. The major causative factor was the contamination of rice oil with 2,3,4,7,8-penta-chlorodibenzofuran (PeCDF). Recent technical advances have allowed us to measure blood levels of PeCDF. However, there is little information on which symptoms and laboratory data are directly associated with PeCDF levels. Yusho patients underwent annual medical check-ups from 2001 to 2003. Blood PeCDF levels were correlated with the presence or absence of symptoms in medical, hematological, dermatological, dental and ophthalmological examinations. This study analyzed all combinations by using the association analysis. This is the most suitable method to evaluate all combinations of the data comprehensively. This method was used to determine the rate of patients with high PeCDF level in the population with each symptom, and to extract combinations of three symptoms which were strongly associated with high PeCDF level. The rate of the patients with high PeCDF level was high in populations with high uric acid, black comedones (face), second highest quartile of age, or high urea nitrogen. The combination of three symptoms associated with the highest rate of patients with high PeCDF level was "high uric acid, female sexuality, and history of acneform eruptions", followed by "history of Yusho in and after 1968, high cholesterol level, and subjective symptoms." This analysis newly suggested that PeCDF concentration may be associated with history of dermatological symptoms, high uric acid, and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
19284800	Rice bran oil (RBO) was enzymatically modified in a continuous packed bed bioreactor to incorporate caprylic acid with Lipozyme RM IM as biocatalyst. The reaction product was purified by short-path distillation. Rice bran oil structured lipid (RBOSL) contained 32.1 mol % caprylic acid. Positional analysis revealed 0.7 mol % caprylic acid at the sn-2 position and 47.8 mol % caprylic acid at the sn-1,3 positions. Composition of free fatty acids and smoke point of RBO and RBOSL were not significantly different. Saponification value, iodine value, and viscosity of RBO were significantly different from those of RBOSL. The color of RBOSL was darker, more yellow and less green than RBO. Volatile compounds in RBO and RBOSL were determined by GC-MS. Melting onset temperatures of RBO and RBOSL were not significantly different, while melting end point temperatures and melting enthalpies were significantly different. This characterization study results will help determine potential food applications of RBOSL.
19285007	Excessive light can be harmful to photosynthetic apparatus since it causes photoinhibition and photooxidation, and plants often encounter hypoxic or anoxic environments when they become submerged by heavy rain or an ensuing flood. In this study, Oryza sativa Differentially Expressed Genes (OsDEGs) from rice under photooxidation and anoxia conditions were isolated using DD-PCR. Among them, OsDEG10 is predicted to encode a small RNA-binding protein (RBP) and the transcript levels of OsDEG10 strongly increased under most of abiotic stress treatments such as high light, anoxia, NaCl, ABA, MV and cold. However, the transcript levels of two rice OsDEG10 homologs were not changed under those treatments. OsDEG10 RNAi transgenic plants were more sensitive to high light and cold stresses compared to wild-type plants. Our results suggest that OsDEG10 is a small RBP involved in the response to various abiotic stresses.
19285101	To generate information about dietary practices, food preferences and food preparation methods from African-Americans in Macon County, Alabama, as a precursor to an intervention designed to modify an existing dietary health questionnaire (DHQ). African-American males (30) and females (31) ages 20 to 75 years participated in eight focus groups in Macon County Alabama between June and July, 2007. The core topics identified were dietary practices; food preferences; food preparation methods; fast food practices; and seasonal/specialty foods. The younger focus group participants reported consuming mostly fast foods such as hamburgers for lunch. Fruits, vegetables, salads, fish, chicken and sandwiches were the most common lunch foods for the older males and females. Across the groups, rice, cornbread and potatoes were reportedly the most commonly consumed starchy foods at dinner. Frying and baking were the most common cooking methods. Fewer participants reported removing the skin when cooking chicken versus those who did not remove. Traditional foods including fried green tomatoes and cracklings were selected for addition to the modified DHQ, while those not commonly consumed, were deleted. Participants described high-fat traditional food preferences, common frying and addition of salted meats to vegetables, which informed the modification of a DHQ.
19285596	Clinical vitamin A deficiency is characterized by night blindness and greater morbidity and mortality. The aim of this study was to examine the relationships between household food expenditures and night blindness among nonpregnant women of childbearing age among families in the slums of Jakarta, Indonesia. In a cross-sectional study of 42 974 households in the Indonesian Nutrition Surveillance System, 1998 to 2003, night blindness was assessed in nonpregnant women. Food expenditures were divided into 5 major categories as follows: plant-based foods (fruits and vegetables), animal-based foods, eggs, other nongrain foods, and grain foods (primarily rice), calculated as percentage of total weekly per capita food expenditure, and expressed in quintiles. The proportion of households with night blindness in nonpregnant women was 0.72%. Plant-based food, animal-based food, and eggs were associated with reduced odds of night blindness (odds ratio [OR], 0.47; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.33-0.67; P < .0001, and OR, 0.47; 95% CI, 0.29-0.76; P = .002; OR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.44-0.85; P = .004), respectively, among families in the highest compared with the lowest quintile, adjusting for potential confounders. Grain food expenditures were associated with increased odds of night blindness among nonpregnant women (OR, 2.80; 95% CI, 1.86-4.22; P < .0001) among families in the highest compared with the lowest quintile, adjusting for potential confounders. This study suggests that nonpregnant women are at greater risk of clinical vitamin A deficiency where families spend more on rice and less on animal and plant-based foods, a situation that is more typical when food prices are high.
19285726	Landfarming is a soil bioremediation technology practiced by oil refineries in order to reduce or eliminate hydrocarbons from petroleum sludge. The goal of the current study was to use Allium cepa bioassay to assess landfarming and landfarming with rice hulls amendment before and after hydrocarbons biodegradation assay in the laboratory. Three cytogenetic endpoints were used: mitotic and chromosome abnormalities (MCA), micronucleus (MN) and nuclear buds (NB). Landfarming presented 13.5 g/kg of total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPHs) and caused strong clastogenic and mutagenic effects (p<0.05) in A. cepa. After 108 days of biodegradation, the landfarming reached the rate of 26.30 mmol of CO(2) released, the concentration of TPHs decreased by 27% and there was significant reduction in MCA, MN and NB. Landfarming treated with rice hulls had the highest release of CO(2), 110.9 mmol, associated with a remarkable reduction in TPHs concentration, 59%, and had the highest decrease in MCA, MN and NB (p>0.05). Our findings showed that the use of rice hulls accelerated the biodegradation efficacy of landfarming and reduced their clastogenicity, indicating that supplementary treatments are important to improve the efficiency of bioremediation processes.
19285741	To explore the way Thai patients perceive and manage their diabetes. Using a focused ethnographic approach, face-to-face interviews were conducted at two public hospitals in Bangkok. All interviews (n=27) were audio-taped and transcribed verbatim. Analysis of the interview transcripts was completed thematically. The findings showed that Thai patients manage their diabetes according to their beliefs about diabetes. These beliefs are constructed using both modern and traditional knowledge. For example, some patients explained the cause of their illness as being due to biomedical factors such as genetics, and also cultural factors such as karma from either previous or current lifetimes. The analysis also revealed that some aspects of Thai life facilitate diabetes self-management while other aspects hamper good control of the illness. For example, Buddhist values of moderation contribute positively to dietary change, while, on the other hand, the importance of rice in the Thai diet can impede successful self-management strategies. The results of this research indicate that Thai culture influences diabetes perceptions and management. Culturally appropriate treatment guidelines should be established for diabetes management that give special consideration to the significance and meaning of food and to Buddhist beliefs.
19286937	Phospholipase D (PLD) plays an important role in plants, including responses to abiotic as well as biotic stresses. A survey of the rice (Oryza sativa) genome database indicated the presence of 17 PLD genes in the genome, among which OsPLDalpha1, OsPLDalpha5, and OsPLDbeta1 were highly expressed in most tissues studied. To examine the physiological function of PLD in rice, we made knockdown plants for each PLD isoform by introducing gene-specific RNA interference constructs. One of them, OsPLDbeta1-knockdown plants, showed the accumulation of reactive oxygen species in the absence of pathogen infection. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and DNA microarray analyses revealed that the knockdown of OsPLDbeta1 resulted in the up-/down-regulation of more than 1,400 genes, including the induction of defense-related genes such as pathogenesis-related protein genes and WRKY/ERF family transcription factor genes. Hypersensitive response-like cell death and phytoalexin production were also observed at a later phase of growth in the OsPLDbeta1-knockdown plants. These results indicated that the OsPLDbeta1-knockdown plants spontaneously activated the defense responses in the absence of pathogen infection. Furthermore, the OsPLDbeta1-knockdown plants exhibited increased resistance to the infection of major pathogens of rice, Pyricularia grisea and Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae. These results suggested that OsPLDbeta1 functions as a negative regulator of defense responses and disease resistance in rice.
19287605	The mermithid Agamermis unka, a parasite of the brown planthopper (BPH), was found in many rice paddies in Gyeongnam Province, Korea. Nematode parasitism of adult BPH varied from year to year, reaching as high as 50% in paddies not treated with an insecticide. Parasitism was lower in insecticide-treated paddies. Generally, mermithid parasitism was higher in BPH adults collected from the lower part (19%) compared with adults collected from the upper part (8%) of the rice plant and in brachypterous (57%) compared with macropterous forms (8%). No difference in parasitism between first (54%) and second (57%) generation was observed.
19287740
19287751	Adults of the brown planthopper (BPH) and the whitebacked planthopper (WBPH) that migrated into Korea from China were not parasitized by the mermithid, Agamermis unka. BPH and WBPH collected from Korean rice fields were parasitized. Parasitism of BPH in the lst-3rd, 4th, and 5th instars, and adults was 31.5%, 61.5%, 66.4%, and 45.5%, respectively, whereas parasitism of the same stages of WBPH was 50%, 50%, 100% and 90.7%, respectively. Parasitism of BPH by A. unka significantly reduced the number of eggs. Only 4.2% of the parasitized females contained eggs, whereas 85.6% of unparasitized females had eggs. Tilling of rice fields significantly increased mermithid parasitism of BPH. Mermithids parasitized 39.3% of caged adults in the untilled field and 77.8% in the tilled field.
19288292	A rice gene, OsBIANK1, encoding a protein containing a typical ankyrin repeat domain, was cloned and identified. The OsBIANK1 protein, consisting of 329 amino acids, contains a conserved ankyrin repeat domain with two ankyrin repeats organized in tandem and was showed to be localized on cytoplasmic membrane during transient expression in onion epidermal cells. Expression of OsBIANK1 was induced by treatment with benzothiadiazole (BTH), a chemical inducer capable of inducing disease resistance response in rice. In BTH-treated rice seedlings, expression of OsBIANK1 was further induced by infection with Magnaporthe grisea, the rice blast fungus, as compared with those in water-treated seedlings. Our preliminary results confirm previous evidences that OsBIANK1 may be involved in regulation of disease resistance response in rice.
19288718	By using a population of 123 F12 lines (recombinant inbred lines, RILs) derived from a cross between India variety Dular and Japanica variety Lemont, an analysis of quantitative trait loci (QTL) was conducted for the flag leaf chlorophyll content of rice. The chlorophyll content was determined by SPAD-502 in 2005 and 2006, respectively, and software QTLMapper 1.6 was applied to analyze the QTL, including the additive and epistatic effects and the QTL interactions with environment for chlorophyll content. A total of ten QTL showing additive effects on chlorophyll content (Chl) were detected, which accounted for 73.51% of the phenotypic variation. The percentage of phenotypic variation explained by single QTL was 2.08%-20.14%, and the interactions of 6 QTLs with environment (AE) were significant. Epistasis analysis indicated that there existed 13 significant additive x additive interactions on chlorophyll content, 6 pairs of which were significant in additive x additive interactions with environment (AAE).
19288720	A field plot comparison experiment was conducted to study the strong stem effect and physiological characteristics of rice plant under rice-duck farming. The results showed that under rice-duck farming, the morphology of rice plant changed obviously, and the carbohydrate content and C/N ratio of the plant as well as the dry matter output from rice stem increased significantly, due to the activities of duck in paddy field. In the meantime, the length of basal internodes decreased by 2. 88%, while the stem diameter, stem mechanical strength, and stem lodging resistant index increased by 64.90%, 11.78%, and 10.95%, respectively. Rice-duck farming increased the root mass and root vitality in deeper soil layers, and decreased the proportion of black roots by 16.63%. It was indicated that rice-duck farming benefited the formation of strong rice stem and increased the stress resistance of rice plant, which would be favorable to the stable and high-yielding of rice.
19288721	By using closed-chamber technique, the characteristics of CH4 emission from an integrated rice-duck ecosystem were studied in 2006 and 2007. The results showed that comparing with conventional flooded rice ecosystem (CK), integrated rice-duck system (RD) was distinguished in its high dissolved oxygen (DO) in field surface water and significantly lower CH4 emission, due to the activities of duck. In 2006, the average CH4 emission flux and the total CH4 emission during the whole rice growth period of RD were 6.84 +/- 1.49 mg +/- m(-2) x h(-1) and 19.34 +/- 1.15 g x m(-2), being 32.7% and 26.3% lower than those of CK (10.17 +/- 1.25 mg x m(-2) x h(-1) and 26.25 +/- 2.17 g respectively; while in 2007, the values of the two test items of RD were 7.68 +/- 0.74 mg x m(-2) x h(-1) and 18.41 +/- 1.05 g x m(-2), being 19.0% and 19.3% lower than those of CK (9.53 +/- 0.40 mg x m(-2) x h(-1) and 22.81 +/- 0.75 g +/- m(-2)), respectively. The emission flux of CH4 had two peaks, being appeared at tillering and heading stages, respectively. The seasonal fluctuations of CH4 emission flux had significant positive correlations with soil temperature and soil dissolved organic carbon content (DOC), but no obvious correlation with soil total organic carbon.
19288727	By using the principles and methods of niche, the microclimatic niche of rice sheath blight fungus was analyzed. The results showed that the integrative effect of ecological factors light intensity, air temperature, and humidity was higher than the effect of each of the factors, and the combination of light intensity and air temperature had higher effect than the other combinations of the three factors. At the tillering, booting, heading, and waxing stages of rice, the microclimatic niche breadth of the fungus was 0.3112, 0.4012, 0.4326, and 0.7365, respectively, i.e., increased with rice growth, and the microclimatic niche occupied by the fungus was mainly with the low light intensity, low air temperature and high humidity as the prior microclimate type.
19288731	Based on the investigation of arthropods biodiversity and insect pests controlling effect in the paddy fields of demonstration area of organic rice production in Guangzhou, a comprehensive assessment on the economic, social, and ecological profits and costs of organic rice production in study area was conducted by using analytic hierarchy process (AHP). The results indicated that among all insect pests controlling measures, organic rice planting had the best comprehensive benefits, with a weight value of 0.5355. Ecological cost played a dominant role in comprehensive costs, and that of traditional pesticide-based insect pests control was most cruel, with a weight value of comprehensive costs being 0.6252. From the viewpoint of the ratio of comprehensive profits to comprehensive costs (RPC), organic rice planting was better than any other insect pests controlling modes, whose RPC was 2.4776, being accorded with the requirement of sustainable development of agriculture.
19289444	The growing availability of genome-scale datasets has attracted increasing attention to the development of computational methods for automated inference of functional similarities among genes and their products. One class of such methods measures the functional similarity of genes based on their distance in the Gene Ontology (GO). To measure the functional relatedness of a gene set, these measures consider every pair of genes in the set, and the average of all pairwise distances is calculated. However, as more data becomes available and gene sets used for analysis become larger, such pair-based calculation becomes prohibitive. In this article, we propose GS(2) (GO-based similarity of gene sets), a novel GO-based measure of gene set similarity that is computable in linear time in the size of the gene set. The measure quantifies the similarity of the GO annotations among a set of genes by averaging the contribution of each gene's GO terms and their ancestor terms with respect to the GO vocabulary graph. To study the performance of our method, we compared our measure with an established pair-based measure when run on gene sets with varying degrees of functional similarities. In addition to a significant speed improvement, our method produced comparable similarity scores to the established method. Our method is available as a web-based tool and an open-source Python library. The web-based tools and Python code are available at: http://bioserver.cs.rice.edu/gs2.
19289447	The unprecedented complexity of the transcriptomic data obtained in recent years creates opportunities for new genomic studies aimed at interpolating regulatory code of gene expression and tracing genome evolution. We report here the identification and characterization of a set of 851 intergenic loci that represent transcribed gene fragments (TGFs) ectopically duplicated from 1030 non-transposable element (non-TE) donor genes in the rice genome. We analyzed the genomic context of the TGFs and donor genes. We show that the TGFs have adopted transcriptional orientation and pattern independent of the donor genes. We further show that TGFs have undergone relaxed purifying selection, consistent with their being pseudogenized. We found that the donor genes, which are biased toward certain molecular functions, exhibit an accelerated evolution rate comparing to the genome average. Our results demonstrated a large number of actively TGFs in the rice genome and shed light on the origin, mode of action and function of the TGFs.
19290110	Root and soil samples from one-crop and two-crop rice fields were collected in a survey for Hirschmanniella spp. in Vietnam during 1978-80. Hirschmanniella spp. were found in 50-78% of the soil samples and 98-100% of the root samples collected. Population densities of nematodes in root systems were lowest at posttransplanting and highest at heading time. Numbers of nematodes inside roots increased 20-22 times from transplanting to heading in fields with both crop sequences. Population densities of Hirschmanniella spp. in two-crop rice fields were more than twice those in one-crop rice fields.
19290188	A new species in the family Trichodoridae, from the rhizosphere of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in Northern Natal, South Africa, is described and illustrated. Trichodorus petrusalberti n. sp. resembles T. taylori De Waele, Mancini, Roca, and Lamberti, 1982, T. hooperi Loof, 1973, and T. complexus Rahman, Jairajpuri, and Ahmad, 1985, from which it is distinguished by the shape of the spicules. It is distinguished from the former two species by the nonthickened terminal cuticle in the males and by the shape and sclerotization of the vulval-vaginal region in lateral view in the females. Additional morphological details are given for T. sanniae Vermeulen and Heyns, 1985 and T. rinae Vermeulen and Heyns, 1985.
19290200	The Pacific islands have a diverse range of food and cash crops with indigenous and introduced nematode problems. The staple food crops have serious nematode pests, such as Meloidogyne spp. on sweet potato, Hirschmanniella miticausa causing corm rot of taro, and Pratylenchus coffeae and Radopholus sp. producing tuber dry rot of yams. Bananas are infested with P. coffeae or R. similis, citrus with Tylenchulus semipenetrans, rice with Aphelenchoides besseyi, and ginger with Meloidogyne spp. and R. similis. Rotylenchulus reniformis, P. zeae, P. brachyurus, and Helicotylenchus spp. are important on all of these and other crops, such as sugarcane, passion fruit, pawpaw, and cassava. Meloidogyne spp. cause serious damage to local and introduced leaf and fruit vegetables and other crops, such as tobacco, sugarcane, pawpaw, black pepper, and pyrethrum. Many other plant-parasitic genera and species, some undescribed, occur in the Pacific, and there are many islands still to be investigated.
19290201	AMONG IMPORTANT NEMATODE SPECIES OCCURRING IN JAPAN, CURRENT RESEARCH ACHIEVEMENTS WITH THE FOLLOWING FOUR NEMATODES ARE REVIEWED: 1) Soybean cyst nematode (SCN), Heterodera glycines - breeding for resistance, race determination, association with Cephalosporium gregatum in azuki bean disease, and isolation of hatching stimulant. 2) Potato-cyst nematode (PCN), Globodera rostochiensis - pathotype determination (Ro 1), breeding for resistance, and control recommendations. 3) Pinewood nematode (PWN), Bursaphelenchus xylophilus - primary pathogen in pine wilt disease, life cycle exhibiting a typical symbiosis with Japanese pine sawyer, Monochamus alternatus, and project for control. 4) Rice root nematodes (RRN), Hirschmanniella imamuri and H. oryzae - distribution of species, population levels in roots, and role of these nematodes in rice culture.
19290204	Nematodes are considered major pests on most economic crops in the Philippines, particularly on banana, pineapple, citrus, tomato, ramie, and sugarcane. Radopholus similis is the most destructive nematode on banana, while Meloidogyne spp. are more serious on various vegetable crops such as tomato, okra, and celery and on fiber crops such as ramie. Tylenchulus semipenetrans is a problem on citrus and Rotylenchulus reniformis on pineapple and some legume crops. Hirschmanniella oryzae and Aphelenchoides besseyi are becoming serious on rice, and Pratylenchus zeae is affecting corn in some areas. Lately, Globodera rostochiensis has been causing serious damage on potato in the highlands. Control measures such as crop rotation, planting resistant varieties, chemical nematicide application, and biological control have been recommended to control these nematodes.
19290286	The host range of the corn cyst nematode, Heterodera zeae, recently detected in Maryland, was investigated. A total of 269 plant entries, representing 68 families, 172 genera, and 204 species, was inoculated with cysts or a mixture of eggs and second-stage juveniles of H. zeae. The host range of the Maryland population of H. zeae was limited to plants of the Gramineae and included 11 tribes, 33 genera, 42 species, and 77 entries. All 22 corn (Zea mays) cultivars tested were hosts. Other economic hosts included certain cultivars of barley (Hordeum vulgare), oat (Arena sativa), rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), sugar cane (Saccharum interspecific hybrid), and wheat (Triticum aestivum). Fall panicum (Panicum dichotomiflorum), a weed species common to cultivated fields in Maryland, was also a host for H. zeae. Other hosts included meadow foxtail (Alopecurus pratensis), Calamagrostis eipgeios, Job's tears (Coix Lachryma-Jobi), green sprangletop (Leptochloa dubia), witchgrass (Panicum capillare), broomcorn (Panicum miliaceum), fountain grass (Pennisetum rueppeli), reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea), common reed (Phragmites australis), eastern gamagrass (Tripsacum dactyloides), corn (Zea mays), and teosinte (Zea mexicana).
19290453	This study assessed the viability of using planted, mature rice fields in mitigating diazinon (an organophosphate insecticide) runoff toxicity using aqueous 48 h Hyalella azteca whole effluent toxicity bioassays. Rice fields decreased diazinon concentrations 80.1%-99.9% compared with 10.8% in the unvegetated field control. H. azteca survival responses coincided with observed diazinon concentrations. Estimated LC50 effects dilutions (%) ranged from 1.15 to 1.47 for inflow samples and 1.66 (unvegetated), 6.44 (rice field A), and >100 (rice field B) outflow samples. Decreases in inflow versus outflow aqueous toxicity were 77.1%-100% in rice fields compared with 18.7% in the unvegetated field.
19290563	Cultivated rice was domesticated from common wild rice. However, little is known about genetic adaptation under domestication. We investigated the nucleotide variation of both cultivated rice and its wild progenitors at 22 R-gene and 10 non-R-gene loci. A significant regression was observed between wild rice and rice cultivars in their polymorphic levels, particularly in their nonsynonymous substitutions (theta (a)). Our data also showed that a similar proportion (approximately 60%) of nucleotide variation in wild rice was retained in cultivated rice in both R-genes and non-R-genes. Interestingly, the slope always was >1 and the intercept always >0 in linear regressions when a cultivar's polymorphism was x-axis. The slope and intercept values can provide a basis by which to estimate the founder effect and the strength of artificial direct selection. A larger founder effect than previously reported and a strong direct-selection effect were shown in rice genes. In addition, two-directional selection was commonly found in differentiated genes between indica and japonica rice subspecies. This kind of selection may explain the mosaic origins of indica and japonica rice subspecies. Furthermore, in most R-genes, no significant differentiation between cultivated and wild rice was detected. We found evidence for genetic introgression from wild rice, which may have played an important role during the domestication of rice R-genes.
19291237	To analyse the arsenic-resistant bacterial communities of two agricultural soils of Bangladesh, to isolate arsenic-resistant bacteria, to study their potential role in arsenic transformation and to investigate the genetic determinants for arsenic resistance among the isolates. Enrichment cultures were performed in a minimal medium in the presence of As(III) and As(V) to isolate resistant bacteria. Twenty-one arsenic-resistant bacteria belonging to different genera of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria were isolated. The isolates, with the exception of Oceanimonas doudoroffii Dhal Rw, reduced 2 mmol l(-1) As(V) completely to As(III) in aerobic conditions. Putative gene fragments for arsenite efflux pumps were amplified in isolates from Dhal soil and a putative arsenate reductase gene fragment was amplified from a Bacillus sp. from Rice soil. Phylogenetically diverse arsenic-resistant bacteria present in agricultural soils of Bangladesh are capable of reducing arsenate to arsenite under aerobic conditions apparently for detoxification purpose. This study provides results on identification, levels of arsenic resistance and reduction of arsenate by the bacterial isolates which could play an important role in arsenic cycling in the two arsenic-contaminated soils in Bangladesh.
19291296	Horizontal transfers (HTs) refer to the transmission of genetic material between phylogenetically distant species. Although most of the cases of HTs described so far concern genes, there is increasing evidence that some involve transposable elements (TEs) in Eukaryotes. The availability of the full genome sequence of two cereal species, (i.e. rice and Sorghum), as well as the partial genome sequence of maize, provides the opportunity to carry out genome-wide searches for TE-HTs in Poaceae. We have identified an LTR-retrotransposon, that we named Route66, with more than 95% sequence identity between rice and Sorghum. Using a combination of in silico and molecular approaches, we are able to present a substantial phylogenetic evidence that Route66 has been transferred horizontally between Panicoideae and several species of the genus Oryza. In addition, we show that it has remained active after these transfers. This study constitutes a new case of HTs for an LTR-retrotransposon and we strongly believe that this mechanism could play a major role in the life cycle of transposable elements. We therefore propose to integrate classe I elements into the previous model of transposable element evolution through horizontal transfers.
19291414	Zinc deficiency is the most ubiquitous micronutrient deficiency problem in world crops. Zinc is essential for both plants and animals because it is a structural constituent and regulatory co-factor in enzymes and proteins involved in many biochemical pathways. Millions of hectares of cropland are affected by Zn deficiency and approximately one-third of the human population suffers from an inadequate intake of Zn. The main soil factors affecting the availability of Zn to plants are low total Zn contents, high pH, high calcite and organic matter contents and high concentrations of Na, Ca, Mg, bicarbonate and phosphate in the soil solution or in labile forms. Maize is the most susceptible cereal crop, but wheat grown on calcareous soils and lowland rice on flooded soils are also highly prone to Zn deficiency. Zinc fertilizers are used in the prevention of Zn deficiency and in the biofortification of cereal grains.
19291574	Skimmed camel milk contains 59,900 U/L amylase, which is 39,363 times less than serum and plasma amylase. Camel milk beta-amylase was purified as a 61 KDa band using DEAE-Sepharose and Sephadex G-100 and yielded 561 U/mg. The optimum working pH, Km and temperature were 7.0, 13.6 mg/Lstarch, 30-40 degrees C, respectively. The enzyme has been shown higher affinity toward amylose and soluble starch than glycogen, amylopectin, dextrin, or pullulan. Magnesium chloride, CaCl(2) and NaCl activated the amylase, while EDTA and EGTA decreased its activity. While its activity was increased in the presence of Triton X-100 and Triton X-114. Phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride did not show any effect on enzyme activity. However, the enzyme activity was inhibited by urea, SDS, DTNB, iodoacetamide, N-ethylmalimide, aprotinin, and trypsin inhibitor. It worked on starch to yield a maltose. Scanning electron microscope images demonstrated a nano-degrading ability on starch granules from various sources (potato, corn, cassava, and rice).
19291577	The extraction conditions of rice bran extract (RBE), including extraction ratio, extraction time, and extraction temperature, were studied in relation to enzymatic browning inhibition in potato. The inhibitory effect of RBE on potato polyphenol oxidase (PPO) activity and its total phenolic compound content were highest at an extraction ratio of 1:3 (rice bran:water, w/v), extraction time of 30 min, and extraction temperature of 40 degrees C. RBE showed the most inhibitory effect on PPO activity at pH 6.5. However, the inhibitory effect of RBE on potato PPO activity and its total phenolic compound content were decreased at the higher temperature and longer time.
19291580	Rice bran protein was extracted by using defatted rice bran and water at 1:6 (w/w) and 6% of bromelain at pH 9.0, 50 degrees C, 500 rpm for 15 and 30 mins. The degree of hydrolysis (DH) of rice bran protein extract (RBPE) was 19 and 36.5%, respectively, and their nitrogen solubility was higher than the controls. Rice bran protein concentrate (RBPC) was prepared by spray drying. Emulsion activity of RBPC produced from 19% DH RBPE was increased while emulsion stability index was not significantly different from the control. Foam capacity and rehydration ability of RBPC were greater than the control.
19292428	In this paper we present a simple method to fabricate ordered silicon cone arrays with controllable morphologies on a silicon substrate using reactive ion etching with two-dimensional silica colloidal crystals as masks. The etching process and the morphologies of the obtained structure are quantified. Unlike works reported previously, we show that the surface roughness of the obtained silicon cone arrays can be adjusted by controlling the etching duration, which is proved to be of importance in tailoring the behavior of water droplets when being used as antireflection coatings with superhydrophobicity. Moreover, this strategy is compatible with the methods we have established on controlling the arrangement of colloidal spheres, and thus silicon cone arrays with tunable periodicities, different lattice structures, and various patterns can be prepared. The obtained silicon cone arrays with strips can be used as hydrophobic substrates with anisotropic dewetting just like the leaves of rice. It is found that by adjusting the strip width with and without silicon cones, the water droplets can transform from isotropic dewetting to anisotropic dewetting.
19292462	Ferritin-iron has been shown to be as bioavailable as ferrous sulfate in humans. Thus, biofortification to breed crops with high ferritin content is a promising strategy to alleviate the global iron deficiency problem. Although ferritin is present in all food crops, its concentration varies between species and varieties. Therefore, a successful ferritin biofortification strategy requires a method to rapidly measure ferritin concentrations in food crops. The objective of this study was to develop a simple and reliable ELISA using an anti-ferritin polyclonal antibody to detect ferritin in various crops. Crude seed extracts were found to have 10.2 +/- 1.0, 4.38 +/- 0.9, 1.2 +/- 0.3, 0.38 +/- 0.1, and 0.04 +/- 0.01 microg of ferritin/g of dry seed in red beans, white beans, wheat, maize, and brown rice, respectively. Although the measured absolute concentrations of ferritin values were low, the presented method is applicable for rapid screening for the relative ferritin concentrations of large numbers of seeds to identify and breed ferritin-rich crops.
19292472	In the present study, we isolated and identified an active component from the Driselase-treated fraction and investigated its effect by acute and chronic oral administration on hypertension, lipid, and glucose metabolism in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. The active component was identified as adenosine and improves hypertension after single oral administration. Rats who were 10 weeks old were divided into control and adenosine groups and were administered water or water with adenosine (10 mg/L), respectively, for 3 weeks. Hypertension and plasma lipid, nitric oxide, insulin, leptin, adiponectin levels, and glucose metabolism were significantly improved in the adenosine group. The mRNA expression levels of genes involved in lipid and glucose metabolism were altered in the adenosine group. Single oral administration of adenosine (10 mg/kg body weight) improved hypertension and plasma triglyceride, glucose, and nitric oxide levels 2 h after administration. In conclusion, oral acute and chronic administration of adenosine are beneficial and improve the metabolic syndrome-related disease parameters.
19293370	Nucleoside degradation and salvage are important metabolic pathways but hardly understood in plants. Recent work on human pathogenic protozoans like Leishmania and Trypanosoma substantiates an essential function of nucleosidase activity. Plant nucleosidases are related to those from protozoans and connect the pathways of nucleoside degradation and salvage. Here, we describe the cloning of such an enzyme from Arabidopsis thaliana, Uridine-Ribohydrolase 1 (URH1) and the characterization by complementation of a yeast mutant. Furthermore, URH1 was synthesized as a recombinant protein in Escherichia coli. The pure recombinant protein exhibited highest hydrolase activity for uridine, followed by inosine and adenosine, the corresponding K(m) values were 0.8, 1.4, and 0.7 mM, respectively. In addition, URH1 was able to cleave the cytokinin derivative isopentenyladenine-riboside. Promoter beta-glucuronidase fusion studies revealed that URH1 is mainly transcribed in the vascular cells of roots and in root tips, guard cells, and pollen. Mutants expressing the Arabidopsis enzyme or the homolog from rice (Oryza sativa) exhibit resistance toward toxic fluorouridine, fluorouracil, and fluoroorotic acid, providing clear evidence for a pivotal function of URH1 as regulative in pyrimidine degradation. Moreover, mutants with increased and decreased nucleosidase activity are delayed in germination, indicating that this enzyme activity must be well balanced in the early phase of plant development.
19294107	Hexamermis cathetospiculae n. sp. (Mermithidae: Nematoda), a parasite of the rice stemborer, Tryporyza incertulas (Wlk.), is described. This mermithid was observed to control the stemborer in Malaysia. It is distinguished from other members of the genus by the shape of the vagina, the nearly straight spicules, and the form of the amphids.
19294147	The ability of Romanomermis culicivorax preparasites to penetrate and infect Psorophora columbiae decreased substantially after ca. 28 hours. Parasitism at temperatures typical of Louisiana rice fields (i.e., 26, 29, and 32 +/- 0.5 C) showed a significant linear decrease (P < 0.01) as the percentage of older larval instars increased at the times of exposure. These data emphasize the need for a synchronous field application of preparasites to challenge the rapid development of early instars of Ps. columbiae. Applications of postparasites rather than insecticide treatments to potential mosquito breeding habitats may offer greater flexibility in larval mosquito control programs.
19295653	Volatile organic compounds produced by the fungus Muscodor albus inhibit or kill numerous fungi. The effect of these volatiles was tested on dormant and physiologically active teliospores of the smut fungi Tilletia horrida, Tilletia indica, and Tilletia tritici, which cause kernel smut of rice, Karnal bunt of wheat, and common bunt of wheat, respectively. Reactivated rye grain culture of M. albus was used to fumigate dormant teliospores in dry Petri dishes and physiologically active teliospores on water agar for up to 5 days at 22 degrees C. Teliospores of all 3 species were incapable of germination when fumigated on agar for 5 days. When T. tritici on agar was fumigated only during the initial 48 h of incubation, viability was reduced by 73%-99%. Fumigation of dry loose teliospores of T. tritici caused a 69%-97% loss in viability, whereas teliospores within intact sori were not affected. Dormant teliospores of T. horrida and T. indica were not affected by M. albus volatiles. It appears that M. albus has potential as a seed or soil treatment for controlling seedling-infecting smuts where infection is initiated by germinating teliospores prior to seedling emergence. The volatiles were not effective for postharvest control of teliospores under conditions used in these experiments.
19295801	Microplot experiments on flooded soil infested with Hirschmanniella oryzae were conducted to investigate the influence of the legum Sesbania rostrata as a rotation crop with rice, Oryza sativa L. cv. Moroberekan. To avoid a green manure effect from S. rostrata, all aerial parts were removed at harvest. The dry weight of paddy, culms and leaves, and number of culms of rice following Sesbania were 214%, 158%, and 121% greater, respectively, than those following rice. Ripening of the paddy occurred earlier if rice followed Sesbania. The beneficial effect of Sesbania may have been due to the trap-crop action of Sesbania against H. oryzae.
19295809	Between 1974 and 1978, 2,842 identifications of plant-parasitic nematodes were made from more than 1,700 soil and plant samples collected in eight provinces of South Viet Nam. Species in nine genera-Helicotylenchus, Criconemoides, Meloidogyne, Pratylenchus, Tylenchorhynchus, Hoplolaimus, Hirschmanniella, Xiphinema, and Rotylenchulus-comprised 96.1% of the identifications; the remaining 3.9% were species of 11 genera. Fourteen genera were associated with rice which was grown on about 2,500,000 ha in 1970. Of these, Ditylenchus, Hirschmanniella, and Meloidogyne were most important. Ditylenchus angustus caused severe damage to about 50,000 ha of flooded rice in the Mekong Delta in 1976. Hirschmanniella spp. were found in all samples examined from flooded rice fields. Meloidogyne spp. were common in rice seedbeds, upland rice, and rice not kept flooded continuously. Meloidogyne and Pratylenchus spp. were found in roots of 22 of the 32 crop plants sampled. Little or no attempt was made in South Viet Nam to control nematodes.
19295820	Hoplolaimus indicus Sher, 1963 was found for the first time in North America as a parasite of wild rice. Supplemental descriptive data, supported by illustrations, are given which extend the known range of variability in this species. The body, stylet, and tail lengths were often greater than those in published reports from India, the esophageal gland overlap was consistently shorter than body width in most specimens, and the excretory pore and vulva were more posterior. Longitudinal striae of the basal head annule ranged from 6 to 20, number of tail atmules from 8 to 22, and the excretory pore extended at most 27 mum anterior or 22 mum posterior of the esophagointestinal valve. A taxonomic key is provided to facilitate the separation of the 13 species of Hoplolaimus having five or six esophageal gland nuclei.
19295876	Aphelenchoides besseyi, the nematode causal agent of white-tip disease of rice, was recovered from 5.5% of 474 seed samples obtained from rice seed warehouses in Louisiana. Laboratory tests in which A. besseyi-infested rice seed was treated with Phostoxin(R), a compound used for control of insects in stored grain, indicate that it also has nematicidal properties. In 18-week-duration greenhouse tests, populations of A. besseyi increased 4-5-fold on the cultivars Saturn and Melrose and 3-fold on Nova '76. Green weights of Nova '76 plants inoculated with A. besseyi and Sclerotium oryzae, the causal agent of rice stem rot, were significantly reduced below those of plants inoculated with either organism alone or with distilled water. Weights of Melrose plants were reduced significantly by treatments with A. besseyi alone and A. besseyi plus S. oryzae, but not by S. oryzae alone. Saturn plant weights were not reduced significantly by either organism alone or by the two in combination.
19296197	A thermophilic Geobacillus bacterium secreting high activity of endo-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.4) was isolated from rice straw compost supplemented with pig manure. A full-length gene of 1,104 bp, celA, encoding this glycosyl hydrolase family 5 endo-glucanase of 368 amino acids was isolated. No related gene from Geobacillus has been reported previously. The recombinant CelA expressed in Escherichia coli had an optimal activity at 65 degrees C and pH 5.0, and it exhibited tenfold greater specific activity than the commercially available Trichoderma reesei endo-glucanase. CelA displayed activity over a broad temperature range from 45 to 75 degrees C and was a thermostable enzyme with 90% activity retained after heating at 65 degrees C for 6 h. Interestingly, CelA activity could be enhanced by 100% in the presence of 2 mM MnSO(4). CelA had high specific activity over beta-D-glucan from barley and Lichenan, making it a potentially useful enzyme in biofuel and food industries.
19296724	Human umbilical cord blood mononuclear cells (HUCB) have been shown to have a therapeutic role in different models of central nervous system (CNS) damage, including stroke. We evaluated the possible therapeutic potential of HUCB in P7 rats submitted to the Rice-Vannucci model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain damage. Our results demonstrated that intraperitoneal transplantation of HUCB, 3 h after the HI insult, resulted in better performance in two developmental sensorimotor reflexes, in the first week after the injury. We also showed a neuroprotective effect in the striatum, and a decrease in the number of activated microglial cells in the cerebral cortex of treated animals. We suggest that HUCB transplantation might rescue striatal neurons from cell death after a neonatal HI injury resulting in better functional recovery.
19296956	A new, fast and efficient multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) method for the determination of cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) in mixed feed, wheat, peanuts and rice is presented. The analytical methodology involves sample extraction with an alkaline methanol-water mixture, defatting with hexane and quantification using HPLC-MS/MS without further treatment of sample extracts. Reversed-phase liquid chromatography using a C18 stationary phase coupled to negative mode electrospray triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometry was applied. The limit of detection was 5 microg/kg while the limit of quantification was 20 microg/kg in the matrices investigated. The detector response was found to be linear over the range 25-250 microg/kg in feed and 25-500 microg/kg in wheat, peanuts and rice. The mean overall recoveries (n=18) of CPA varied from 79% to 114% in the range of concentrations studied over a period of 4 months. Mean recoveries (n=3 or 6) of CPA in wheat, peanuts and rice varied from 70% to 111%, 77% to 116% and 69% to 92%, respectively. The method was successfully applied to the analysis of feed and rice samples artificially infected with the fungal strain Penicillium commune, where the toxin was found at different levels.
19297585	The virescent3 (v3) and stripe1 (st1) mutants in rice (Oryza sativa) produce chlorotic leaves in a growth stage-dependent manner under field conditions. They are temperature-conditional mutants that produce bleached leaves at a constant 20 degrees C or 30 degrees C but almost green leaves under diurnal 30 degrees C/20 degrees C conditions. Here, we show V3 and St1, which encode the large and small subunits of ribonucleotide reductase (RNR), RNRL1, and RNRS1, respectively. RNR regulates the rate of deoxyribonucleotide production for DNA synthesis and repair. RNRL1 and RNRS1 are highly expressed in the shoot base and in young leaves, and the expression of the genes that function in plastid transcription/translation and in photosynthesis is altered in v3 and st1 mutants, indicating that a threshold activity of RNR is required for chloroplast biogenesis in developing leaves. There are additional RNR homologs in rice, RNRL2 and RNRS2, and eukaryotic RNRs comprise alpha(2)beta(2) heterodimers. In yeast, RNRL1 interacts with RNRS1 (RNRL1:RNRS1) and RNRL2:RNRS2, but no interaction occurs between other combinations of the large and small subunits. The interacting activities are RNRL1:RNRS1 > RNRL1:rnrs1(st1) > rnrl1(v3):RNRS1 > rnrl1(v3):rnrs1(st1), which correlate with the degree of chlorosis for each genotype. This suggests that missense mutations in rnrl1(v3) and rnrs1(st1) attenuate the first alphabeta dimerization. Moreover, wild-type plants exposed to a low concentration of an RNR inhibitor, hydroxyurea, produce chlorotic leaves without growth retardation, reminiscent of v3 and st1 mutants. We thus propose that upon insufficient activity of RNR, plastid DNA synthesis is preferentially arrested to allow nuclear genome replication in developing leaves, leading to continuous plant growth.
19298079	A survey for fumonisins B1 and B2 (FB1 and FB2, respectively) was performed on 180 samples of high-consumption food commodities and 15 feed samples randomly collected from various regions of Tunisia. The determination of fumonisin level was performed by an in-house validated high-performance liquid chromatography and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) methods. Detection limit by ELISA for fumonisins sum was 25 microg/kg, and those by HPLC were 50 microg/kg for FB1 and 70 microg/kg for FB2. Recoveries of fumonisins spiked at 130 microg/kg ranged from 68.5 to 75.6% by ELISA, whereas those by HPLC for FB1 at 400 microg/kg and for FB2 at 300 microg/kg varied from 75.2 to 90.5%. Naturally occurring fumonisins were found in 10.5% of food samples with levels ranging from 70 to 2130 microg/kg. All contaminated samples contained FB1, and 31.5% of them contained FB2. In addition, the most contaminated commodities were corn foods and sorghum, whereas no fumonisin contamination was found in any nut or rice samples. For analyzed feed samples, fumonisins were detected in 86.6% of them with concentrations ranging from 50 to 2800 microg/kg. In addition, the performance of analytical methods was investigated in a comparison between ELISA and HPLC results for samples analyzed by both methods.
19298266	The complex structure of a single Mendelian factor widespread in the Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) and its wild progenitor (Oryza rufipogon) that caused diverse phenotypes in the timing of flowering under natural field conditions was investigated in near isogenic lines. These near isogenic lines showed differences in flowering time despite all eight accessions collected from tropical regions possessing a recessive gene allelic to the se-pat gene. Fine mapping in two of these near-isogenic lines revealed that cultivated (Patpaku) and wild (W593) accessions had three and two linked quantitative trait loci (QTL) in the candidate regions, respectively, showing that Patpaku and W593 possessed linked QTLs with different effects in addition to the commonly-observed recessive gene (se-pat). Molecular dissection suggested that the tandemly duplicated FT-like genes (Hd3a and RFT1) could be the candidate genes for these QTLs. Interestingly, the linked QTLs differed in their epistases, degree of dominance, and genotype x environment interactions. The nucleotide sequences showed that RFT1 has diverged more rapidly than Hd3a during rice evolution, suggesting phenotypic diversification of the two genes. Phylogenetic analysis implied that the se-pat(+) alleles might have emerged in different lineages within O. sativa. The present results strongly suggest that nucleotide divergence and shuffling of the linked QTLs by recombination might have created novel Mendelian factors that probably contribute to responding to local environments.
19298860	Cdc42, a member of the Rho-family small GTP-binding proteins, is a pivotal signaling switch that cycles between active GTP-bound and inactive GDP-bound forms, controlling actin cytoskeleton organization and cell polarity. In this report, we show that MgCdc42, a Cdc42 ortholog in Magnaporthe grisea, is required for its plant penetration. Consequently, the deletion mutants show dramatically decreased virulence to rice due to the arrest of penetration and infectious growth, which may be attributed to the defect of turgor and superoxide generation during the appressorial development in Mgcdc42 deletion mutants. In addition, the mutants also exhibit pleotropic defects including gherkin-shaped conidia, delayed germination as well as decreased sporulation. Furthermore, dominant negative mutation leads to a similar phenotype to that of the deletion mutants, lending further support to the conclusion that MgCdc42 is required for the penetration and virulence of M. grisea.
19299592
19299619	The process of rice domestication occurred in the Lower Yangtze region of Zhejiang, China, between 6900 and 6600 years ago. Archaeobotanical evidence from the site of Tianluoshan shows that the proportion of nonshattering domesticated rice (Oryza sativa) spikelet bases increased over this period from 27% to 39%. Over the same period, rice remains increased from 8% to 24% of all plant remains, which suggests an increased consumption relative to wild gathered foods. In addition, an assemblage of annual grasses, sedges, and other herbaceous plants indicates the presence of arable weeds, typical of cultivated rice, that also increased over this period.
19300670	The feeding behaviour of Hirschmanniella oryzae, H. imamuri, and H. spinicaudata on excised rice roots was very similar to that of other tylenchid nematodes on other hosts. Juveniles and adults of all three species invaded rice roots, causing extensive mechanical damage. Feeding and burrowing activities predisposed roots to secondary infection in unsterile cultures. Surface-sterilized nematodes did not induce necrosis in axenic cultures.
19300801	Ecological studies on soil nematodes were made in a tropical rice field and pasture. Parasitic species were more diversified in the pasture than in the rice field. Eighty-six and sixty percent of total nematodes occurred in the top 10 cm in rice field and pasture, respectively. Nematodes were not randomly or uniformly dispersed but aggregated. Parasitic forms were most abundant and correlated with root biomass in the 0-15-cm soil layer, the greatest number usually occurring at the 10-15-cm depth at both sites. In summer, however, they were densest at the 15-30-cm depth. Microbivores were most frequent in the top 5 cm of both sites. Micellaneous feeders (food sources uncertain) usually occurred in highest densities at the 15-30-cm depth. Predators showed no distinct depth preference. Temperature and moisture of the soil apparently played an important role in regulating nematode population. Peak densities of 31.3 x 10/m(2) and 21.6 x 10/m(2) at a 30-cm depth occurred in January, while minimum densities of 5.0-5.3 x 10/m(2) and 4.1 x 10/m(2) occurred in July-October and April in rice field and pasture, respectively. Monthly mean biomass of nematodes was 23.8 +/- 4.5 mg/m(2) in rice field and 11.5 +/- 1.5 mg/m(2) in pasture.
19301814	A microwave-assisted enzymatic extraction (MAEE) method was developed for the simultaneous extraction of arsenic (As) and selenium (Se) species in rice products. The total arsenic and selenium content in the enzymatic extracts were determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), while the speciation analysis was performed by ion chromatography coupled to inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (IC-ICP-MS). The main factors affecting the enzymatic extraction process were evaluated in NIST SRM-1568a rice flour. The optimum extraction conditions were 500 mg of sample, 50 mg of protease XIV, and 25 mg of alpha-amylase in aqueous medium during 40 min at 37 degrees C. The extraction recoveries of total As and Se reached 100 +/- 3 and 80 +/- 4%, respectively. The species stability study during the MAEE process did not show transformation of the target species in rice products. The results of As speciation obtained for SRM-1568a were in agreement with previous studies of As speciation performed on the same reference material. The proposed method was applied to the determination of As and Se species in rice and rice-based cereals. Arsenite [As(III)], arsenate [As(V)], dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), and selenomethionine (SeMet) were the predominant species identified in rice products.
19302117	Somalis comprise one of the largest asylum seeking populations in the UK, yet very little is known about how this migration has affected traditional attitudes towards food or eating habits. The present study was commissioned to examine the health behaviours (smoking, diet and exercise) of a Somali population in London; the study focuses on the dietary beliefs and self-reported eating behaviours of these subjects. Because of the documented difficulty of engaging black and minority ethnic groups in research, a mixed methodology was used, involving focus groups to elicit specific dietary themes and a questionnaire survey to attempt to quantify community concordance with these themes. Eight focus groups were held in London in 2006; there were two women's and six men's groups, with 62 participants in total. The questionnaire was developed following analysis of the focus group discussions and opportunistically distributed via local Somali community organisations (77 respondents). The typical diet of focus group participants largely consisted of rice, pasta and red meat. There was low consumption of fruit and vegetables reported among the focus group participants: of survey respondents 97% reported eating less than two pieces of fruit, and 92% less than two portions of vegetables, a day. Fruit and vegetable consumption was low and there was uncertainty about what constituted a healthy diet and a stated desire for education around this. Cultural factors such as the traditional Somali diet, social associations of food and lack of appropriate information are issues that need to be addressed.
19302972	The high-affinity K(+) (HAK) transporter gene family is the largest family in plant that functions as potassium transporter and is important for various aspects of plant life. In the present study, we identified 27 members of this family in rice genome. The phylogenetic tree divided the land plant HAK transporter proteins into 6 distinct groups. Although the main characteristic of this family was established before the origin of seed plants, they also showed some differences between the members of non-seed and seed plants. The HAK genes in rice were found to have expanded in lineage-specific manner after the split of monocots and dicots, and both segmental duplication events and tandem duplication events contributed to the expansion of this family. Functional divergence analysis for this family provided statistical evidence for shifted evolutionary rate after gene duplication. Further analysis indicated that both point mutant with positive selection and gene conversion events contributed to the evolution of this family in rice.
19302973	Phosphorous (P) deficiency is a major restraint factor for crop production and plants have developed several mechanisms to adapt to low P stress. In this study, a set of 271 introgression lines (ILs) were used to characterize the responses of seedlings to low P availability and to identify QTLs for root traits, biomass, and plant height under P-deficiency and P-sufficiency conditions. Plant height, total dry weight, shoot dry weight, and root number were inhibited under P-deficiency, whereas maximum root length (MRL) and root-shoot ratio (RS) were induced by P-deficiency stress. Relative MRL (RMRL, the ratio of MRL under P-deficiency to MRL under P-sufficiency condition) and relative RS (RRS) were used to evaluate P-deficiency tolerance at the seedling stage. A total of 24 additive QTLs and 29 pairs of epistatic QTLs were detected, but only qRN4 was detected in both conditions. This suggested that different mechanisms may exist in both P supply levels. QTLs for adaptive traits (RMRL, RRS, RRV, and RRDW) and qRN4 consistently expressed to increase trait stability may contribute to P-deficiency tolerance. Twelve intervals were cluster regions of QTLs for P-deficiency tolerance, and one QTL (qRRS8) showed pleiotropic effects on P-deficiency tolerance and drought tolerance. These interesting QTLs can be used in marker-assisted breeding through the target ILs.
19304384	The effectiveness of two kinds of magnesium oxide (MgO) materials, commercial MgO (2250 kg ha(-1)) and a material derived from MgO and magnesium silicate minerals named 'MgO-SH-A' (2250 and 4500 kg ha(-1)1), in suppression of uptake and accumulation of cadmium (Cd) into grain of winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. Ayahikari) was examined in a Cd-contaminated alluvial paddy field under annual rice-wheat rotational system. The MgO materials were mixed into the plough-layer soil only once prior to the preceding rice cultivation. Cadmium concentration in wheat grain produced from the non-amendment control exceeded the maximum limit of Cd in wheat grain adopted by FAO/WHO (0.2 mg kg(-1)). All of the treatments with the MgO materials significantly lowered plant available Cd fraction in the plough-layer soil. However, only the treatment with the commercial MgO at 2250 kg ha(-1) produced wheat grain whose Cd concentration was not only significantly lower than that from the control but also less than 0.2 mg kg(-1). It is suggested that the significant suppressive effect of the commercial MgO on Cd accumulation in wheat grain would be mainly attributed to its high soil neutralizing capacity as compared to that of MgO-SH-A.
19304830	Fusarium graminearum is an important fungal pathogen of cereal crops and produces mycotoxins, such as the trichothecenes nivalenol and deoxynivalenol. This species may be subdivided into a series of genetic lineages or phylogenetic species. We identified strains of F. graminearum from the Republic of Korea to lineage, tested their ability to produce nivalenol and deoxynivalenol, and determined the genetic composition and structure of the populations from which they were recovered. Based on amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP), PCR genotyping, and chemical analyses of trichothecenes, all 249 isolates from southern provinces belonged to lineage 6, with 241 having the nivalenol genotype and 8 having the deoxynivalenol genotype. In the eastern Korea province, we recovered 84 lineage 6 isolates with the nivalenol genotype and 23 lineage 7 isolates with the deoxynivalenol genotype. Among 333 lineage 6 isolates, 36% of the AFLP bands were polymorphic, and there were 270 multilocus haplotypes. Genetic identity among populations was high (>0.972), and genotype diversity was low (30 to 58%). To test the adaptation of lineage 6 to rice, conidial mixtures of strains from lineages 3, 6, and 7 were inoculated onto rice plants and then recovered from the rice grains produced. Strains representing lineages 6 and 7 were recovered from inoculated spikelets at similar frequencies that were much higher than those for the strain representing lineage 3. Abundant perithecia were produced on rice straw, and 247 single-ascospore isolates were recovered from 247 perithecia. Perithecia representing lineage 6 (87%) were the most common, followed by those representing lineage 7 (13%), with perithecia representing lineage 3 not detected. These results suggest that F. graminearum lineage 6 may have a host preference for rice and that it may be more fit in a rice agroecosystem than are the other lineages present in Korea.
19304938	As an important agronomic trait, rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaf rolling has attracted much attention from plant biologists and breeders. Moderate leaf rolling increases the photosynthesis of cultivars and hence raises grain yield. However, the relevant molecular mechanism remains unclear. Here, we show the isolation and functional characterization of SHALLOT-LIKE1 (SLL1), a key gene controlling rice leaf rolling. sll1 mutant plants have extremely incurved leaves due to the defective development of sclerenchymatous cells on the abaxial side. Defective development can be functionally rescued by expression of SLL1. SLL1 is transcribed in various tissues and accumulates in the abaxial epidermis throughout leaf development. SLL1 encodes a SHAQKYF class MYB family transcription factor belonging to the KANADI family. SLL1 deficiency leads to defective programmed cell death of abaxial mesophyll cells and suppresses the development of abaxial features. By contrast, enhanced SLL1 expression stimulates phloem development on the abaxial side and suppresses bulliform cell and sclerenchyma development on the adaxial side. Additionally, SLL1 deficiency results in increased chlorophyll and photosynthesis. Our findings identify the role of SLL1 in the modulation of leaf abaxial cell development and in sustaining abaxial characteristics during leaf development. These results should facilitate attempts to use molecular breeding to increase the photosynthetic capacity of rice, as well as other crops, by modulating leaf development and rolling.
19304997	In arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) and FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC) play key roles in regulating seasonal flowering-responses to synchronize flowering with optimal conditions. FT is a promoter of flowering activated by long days and by warm conditions. FLC represses FT to delay flowering until plants experience winter. The identification of genes controlling flowering in cereals allows comparison of the molecular pathways controlling seasonal flowering-responses in cereals with those of arabidopsis. The role of FT has been conserved between arabidopsis and cereals; FT-like genes trigger flowering in response to short days in rice or long days in temperate cereals, such as wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). Many varieties of wheat and barley require vernalization to flower but FLC-like genes have not been identified in cereals. Instead, VERNALIZATION2 (VRN2) inhibits long-day induction of FT-like1 (FT1) prior to winter. VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) is activated by low-temperatures during winter to repress VRN2 and to allow the long-day response to occur in spring. In rice (Oryza sativa) a VRN2-like gene Ghd7, which influences grain number, plant height and heading date, represses the FT-like gene Heading date 3a (Hd3a) in long days, suggesting a broader role for VRN2-like genes in regulating day-length responses in cereals. Other genes, including Early heading date (Ehd1), Oryza sativa MADS51 (OsMADS51) and INDETERMINATE1 (OsID1) up-regulate Hd3a in short days. These genes might account for the different day-length response of rice compared with the temperate cereals. No genes homologous to VRN2, Ehd1, Ehd2 or OsMADS51 occur in arabidopsis. It seems that different genes regulate FT orthologues to elicit seasonal flowering-responses in arabidopsis and the cereals. This highlights the need for more detailed study into the molecular basis of seasonal flowering-responses in cereal crops or in closely related model plants such as Brachypodium distachyon.
19305410	Grain yield is controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTLs) derived from natural variations in many crop plants. Here we report the molecular characterization of a major rice grain yield QTL that acts through the determination of panicle architecture. The dominant allele at the DEP1 locus is a gain-of-function mutation causing truncation of a phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein-like domain protein. The effect of this allele is to enhance meristematic activity, resulting in a reduced length of the inflorescence internode, an increased number of grains per panicle and a consequent increase in grain yield. This allele is common to many Chinese high-yielding rice varieties and likely represents a relatively recent introduction into the cultivated rice gene pool. We also show that a functionally equivalent allele is present in the temperate cereals and seems to have arisen before the divergence of the wheat and barley lineages.
19305545	In greenhouse experiments Hirschmanniella oryzae, H. imamuri, and H. spinicaudata depressed and delayed the tillering and flowering of rice, and suppressed root and shoot growth and grain yield.
19306571	Gene expression in rice roots under nutritional stress was studied using micro array techniques. The results showed that when re-supplied with sufficient amounts of nutrition after nutrition stress, the expression of OsPra2 (a small G protein which is homologous with Pea Pra2 protein) decreased in the plants root tissue. The cDNA sequence of the OsPra2 gene and its promoter, which is about 1 kb upstream of the translation origin point, was obtained using RT-PCR and PCR approaches. The OsPra2 protein contains four conserved GTP/GDP binding domains and specific domain of Rab small G protein family. The expression of OsPra2 and GST fusion protein in onion epidermal cells showed that OsPra2 protein was localized in the membrane and nucleus of the cell. The fusion expression of OsPra2 promoter and GUS reporter gene in transgenic rice suggested that the OsPra2 promoter allowed GUS expression in coleoptiles and roots. Compared with wild type rice, OsPra2 over expressed transgenic rice showed an obvious dwarf phenotype which resembles the BR deficient rice.
19306686	Gravitropic bending of horizontally-oriented rice shoots results from the differential elongation of cells in the upper and lower halves of the shoot bases. In this study, genes encoding a reversibly glycosylated polypeptide (OsRGP1) and a sucrose synthase (OsSuS) related to sugar metabolism were identified by suppressive subtractive hybridization (SSH) as being differentially expressed in gravibending lower and upper halves of rice shoot bases. RT-PCR was used to monitor OsRGP1 and OsSuS gene expression. The two genes were differentially induced in lower and upper halves of the shoot bases during gravitropism and their expression was regulated by auxin. Gene promoter sequence analysis demonstrated the existence of elements related to auxin. Treatment with the auxin transport inhibitor TIBA inhibited the asymmetric expression of OsRGP1 and OsSuS. In addition, an increase in hexose sugars was detected in the lower half of the shoot bases during gravitropism. Our data suggest that asymmetric redistribution of auxin following gravistimulation results in differentially localized OsRGP1 and OsSuS expression. While asymmetric expression of OsSuS may result in a disproportionate distribution of hexose, asymmetric expression of OsRGP1 could induce cell wall polysaccharide synthesis in the lower half of shoot bases. Therefore hexose and cell wall polysaccharide accumulation in the lower half of rice shoot bases might contribute to cell expansion and subsequent gravitropic bending.
19307013	The bioregeneration efficiencies of powdered activated carbon (PAC) and pyrolyzed rice husk loaded with phenol and p-nitrophenol were quantified by oxygen uptake measurements using the respirometry technique in two approaches: (i) simultaneous adsorption and biodegradation and (ii) sequential adsorption and biodegradation. It was found that the applicability of the simultaneous adsorption and biodegradation approach was constrained by the requirement of adsorption preceding biodegradation in order to determine the initial adsorbent loading accurately. The sequential adsorption and biodegradation approach provides a good estimate of the upper limit of the bioregeneration efficiency for the loaded adsorbent in the simultaneous adsorption and biodegradation processes. The results showed that the mean bioregeneration efficiencies for PAC loaded with phenol and p-nitrophenol, respectively, obtained using the two approaches were in good agreement.
19307770	HpaGXooc, from rice pathogenic bacterium Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, is a member of the harpin group of proteins, eliciting hypersensitive cell death in non-host plants, inducing disease and insect resistance in plants, and enhancing plant growth. To express and secret the HpaGXooc protein in Bacillus subtilis, we constructed a recombinant expression vector pM43HF with stronger promoter P43 and signal peptide element nprB. The SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis demonstrated the expression of the protein HpaGXooc in B. subtilis. The ELISA analysis determined the optimum condition for HpaGXooc expression in B. subtilis WBHF. The biological function analysis indicated that the protein HpaGXooc from B. subtilis WBHF elicits hypersensitive response (HR) and enhances the growth of tobacco. The results of RT-PCR analysis revealed that HpaGXooc induces expression of the pathogenesis-related genes PR-1a and PR-1b in plant defense response.
19308213	In the laboratory, the vertical migration of Aphelenchoides besseyi was favored by rough surfaces and an inverse water gradient. In relation th gravity, the nematode migrated down or up equally, a circumstance suggesting that a geotaxis was not involved. Stems of rice seedlings were effective surfaces for vertical migration of nematodes only when the stems were continuously supplied with moisture.
19308269	White rice is an indispensable staple food in Japan, although it is a high glycemic index food. The objective of this study was to estimate how barley cooked with white rice might affect postprandial glucose, insulin and desacyl ghrelin concentrations as well as fullness. The study was conducted in randomized crossover design with nine healthy subjects. Blood glucose, insulin, free fatty acid and desacyl ghrelin concentrations and subjective levels of fullness and hunger were measured for 240 min after intake of glucose, white rice, 30% rolled barley (30BAR), 50% rolled barley (50BAR) and 100% rolled barley (100BAR) containing 75 g of available carbohydrate. Postprandial glucose and insulin levels were suppressed by intake of 30BAR, 50BAR and 100BAR comparing with those of white rice. Area under the curves of plasma glucose and insulin concentrations was reduced by barley intake in a dose-dependent manner. Although plasma desacyl ghrelin levels decreased postprandially, the degree of reduction was suppressed by barley intake in a dose-dependent manner. Postprandial desacyl ghrelin levels can be a sensitive biomarker of carbohydrate metabolism. The combination of white rice with barley plays a beneficial role in preventing and treating type 2 diabetes, obesity and other metabolic diseases.
19308458	The rice straw, an agricultural waste from Asians' main provision, was collected as feedstock to convert cellulose into ethanol through the enzymatic hydrolysis and followed by the fermentation process. When the two process steps are performed sequentially, it is referred to as separate hydrolysis and fermentation (SHF). The steps can also be performed simultaneously, i.e., simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF). In this research, the kinetic model parameters of the cellulose saccharification process step using the rice straw as feedstock is obtained from real experimental data of cellulase hydrolysis. Furthermore, this model can be combined with a fermentation model at high glucose and ethanol concentrations to form a SSF model. The fermentation model is based on cybernetic approach from a paper in the literature with an extension of including both the glucose and ethanol inhibition terms to approach more to the actual plants. Dynamic effects of the operating variables in the enzymatic hydrolysis and the fermentation models will be analyzed. The operation of the SSF process will be compared to the SHF process. It is shown that the SSF process is better in reducing the processing time when the product (ethanol) concentration is high. The means to improve the productivity of the overall SSF process, by properly using aeration during the batch operation will also be discussed.
19309193	Structured risk assessment should guide clinical risk management, but it is uncertain which instrument has the highest predictive accuracy among men and women. In the present study, the authors compared the Psychopathy Checklist-Revised (PCL-R; R. D. Hare, 1991, 2003); the Historical, Clinical, Risk Management-20 (HCR-20; C. D. Webster, K. S. Douglas, D. Eaves, & S. D. Hart, 1997); the Risk Matrix 2000-Violence (RM2000[V]; D. Thornton et al., 2003); the Violence Risk Appraisal Guide (VRAG; V. L. Quinsey, G. T. Harris, M. E. Rice, & C. A. Cormier, 1998); the Offenders Group Reconviction Scale (OGRS; J. B. Copas & P. Marshall, 1998; R. Taylor, 1999); and the total previous convictions among prisoners, prospectively assessed prerelease. The authors compared predischarge measures with subsequent offending and instruments ranked using multivariate regression. Most instruments demonstrated significant but moderate predictive ability. The OGRS ranked highest for violence among men, and the PCL-R and HCR-20 H subscale ranked highest for violence among women. The OGRS and total previous acquisitive convictions demonstrated greatest accuracy in predicting acquisitive offending among men and women. Actuarial instruments requiring no training to administer performed as well as personality assessment and structured risk assessment and were superior among men for violence.
19309445	The trait of low cadmium (Cd) accumulation in brown rice (Oryza sativa) is important for food safety. An effective way to reduce Cd accumulation in the grain is to control Cd transfer from the roots to the shoots. Here, we investigated genotypic variation in the shoot Cd concentration among 146 accessions from a rice core collection and performed a quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis to determine the loci controlling shoot Cd accumulation. Furthermore, we physiologically characterized the two accessions used for QTL analysis. Large genotypic variation (13-fold) in the shoot Cd concentration was found. A major QTL was detected on chromosome 11 using a F2 population derived from Badari Dhan (a high-Cd accession) and Shwe War (a low-Cd accession). This QTL explained 16.1% of the phenotypic variation in Cd accumulation. Furthermore, this QTL was confirmed by analysis of advanced progeny. Physiological studies showed that Badari Dhan and Shwe War did not differ in uptake of Cd by the roots, but differed greatly in the translocation of Cd from the roots to the shoots. Taken together, our findings suggest that the major QTL detected is responsible for the translocation of Cd from the roots to the shoots.
19317355	A reliable and reproducible protocol has been developed for high frequency plant regeneration from 4-5 mm long leaf base segments of 4 days old in vitro germinated seedlings of indica rice (Oryza sativa) cultivar Rasi. The effect of age of seedlings, position of leaf base segments and optimum concentration of 2,4-D on callus induction frequency was investigated with a future aim to use leaf bases for biolistic and Agrobacterium-mediated transformation experiments. Friable, nodular and white to pale yellow embryogenic callus cultures (206 mg fresh weight /explant) were obtained from the first basal segments of rice seedlings on Linsmaier and Skoog (LS) medium supplemented with 2,4-D (11.3 microM) and 3.0 microM thiamine-HCL. Plant regeneration was achieved after the transfer of 54 days old embryogenic callus cultures to Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with BAP (2.2 microM) and NAA (0.27 microM). In vitro regenerated plants with multiple shoots and roots transferred to sterile soil in growth chamber and maintained in greenhouse exhibited normal growth and were phenotypically similar to plants germinated from seeds.
19318375	The fully recessive disease resistance (R) gene xa13, which mediates race-specific resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), encodes a plasma membrane protein that differs by one amino acid from that encoded by its dominant (susceptible) allele Xa13. The molecular mechanism of xa13-mediated resistance is largely unknown. Here we show that, compared with its dominant allele, expressional non-reaction of xa13 to Xoo infection, not its protein composition, is the key factor for xa13-mediated resistance. We used the promoter (P(Xa13)) of the dominant Xa13, which was induced by only the incompatible Xoo strain for xa13, to regulate xa13 and xa13(Leu49) (a natural recessive allele of xa13) in the rice line IRBB13 carrying xa13. The transgenic plants showed the same level of susceptibility and bacterial growth rate as those of the rice line carrying dominant Xa13, accompanied by the induced accumulation of xa13 or xa13(Leu49) proteins. Constitutive expression of dominant XA13 or different xa13 proteins (xa13, xa13(Leu49), xa13(Ala85) or xa13(Val184)) in IRBB13 had no effect on Xoo infection in the transgenic plants. These results suggest that race-specific pathogen-induced Xa13 expression is critical for infection. Thus, xa13 stands out from other R genes in that its functions in disease resistance are due to only the loss of pathogen-induced transcriptional motivation caused by natural selection.
19319017	Mature green banana (GB) fruit is rich in amylase-resistant starch that stimulates colonic production of short-chain fatty acids (referred to as fatty acid) and is useful in treating diarrheal diseases. We studied therapeutic effects of GB in childhood shigellosis by determining colonic fatty acid production in a double-blind, randomized, controlled, clinical trial. Seventy-three children aged 6 to 60 months with severe bloody dysentery caused by Shigella infection were either given a rice-based diet (54 kcal/dL), with cooked GB (250 g/L) (n = 34) or without GB (n = 39) for 5 days; all given ciprofloxacin (15 mg/kg, q12 hours). Stool volume, frequency, excretion of blood/mucus, and relevant clinical and laboratory indices were determined. On day 5 (post-treatment), 59% children in GB group had no mucus compared with 36% in controls, fecal blood was completely cleared from 96% in GB group compared with 60% without GB (P < 0.05). GB treatment significantly reduced (P < 0.01) numbers of stools/day compared with controls (70% vs. 50%, P < 0.05). GB-specific reductions of mean fecal volumes (mL/kg) ranged from 25% to 40%; (P < 0.05) during the 5-day observations. Clinical success rates were 85% in GB group compared with 67% in controls (P < 0.05). GB significantly (P < 0.01) reduced fecal myeloperoxidase activity and increased fecal fatty acid concentrations (P < 0.01). GB diet improves clinical severity in childhood shigellosis and could be a simple and useful adjunct for dietary management of this illness.
19319928	Clomazone is a herbicide used to control broadleaf weeds and grasses. Clomazone use in agriculturally important crops and forests for weed control has increased and is a potential water contaminant given its high water solubility (1100 microg mL(-1)). Soil sorption is an environmental fate parameter that may limit its movement to water systems. The authors used model rice and forest soils of California to test clomazone sorption affinity, capacity, desorption, interaction with soil organic matter and behavior with black carbon. Sorption of clomazone to the major organic matter fraction of soil, humic acid (HA) (K(d) = 29-87 L kg(-1)), was greater than to whole soils (K(d) = 2.3-11 L kg(-1)). Increased isotherm non-linearity was observed for the whole soils (N = 0.831-0.893) when compared with the humic acids (N = 0.954-0.999). Desorption isotherm results showed hysteresis, which was greatest at the lowest solution concentration of 0.067 microg mL(-1) for all whole soils and HA extracts. Aliphatic carbon content appeared to contribute to increased isotherm linearity. The results indicate that clomazone does not sorb appreciably to sandy or clay soils. Its sorption affinity and capacity is greater in humic acid, and consequently clomazone has difficulty desorbing from soil organic matter. Sorption appears to follow processes explained by the dual-mode model, the presence of fire residues (black carbon) and a recently proposed sorption mechanism.
19319991	Bentazon and molinate are selective herbicides recommended for integrated weed management in rice. Their toxicity on growth and some biochemical and physiological parameters of Nostoc muscorum, an abundant cyanobacterium in Portuguese rice fields, was evaluated under laboratory conditions during time- and concentration-dependent exposure for 72 h. Results showed that toxic concentrations (0.75-2 mM) of both herbicides have pleiotropic effects on the cyanobacterium. Molinate was more toxic than bentazon to growth, respiration, chlorophyll-a, carotenoids, and phycobiliproteins contents. Protein content was increased by both herbicides although the effect was particularly evident with higher concentrations of molinate (1.5-2 mM). The herbicides had contrasting effects on carbohydrates content: molinate increased this organic fraction whereas bentazon decreased it. Photosynthesis and respiration were inhibited by both herbicides.
19320164	Chemical warfare agents containing aromatic arsenicals (AAs) such as Clark I (diphenylchloroarsine) are well-known, as is the risk of leakage from such munitions into the environment. We investigated the uptake of AAs in agricultural soils by rice. Methylphenylarsinic acid (MPAA) was detected in brown rice grown in contaminated soil. Dimethylphenylarsine oxide (DMPAO) and methyldiphenylarsine oxide (MDPAO) were detected in the straw but not in the grains grown in the contaminated soil. Inthe contaminated soil, phenylarsonic acid (PAA) and MPAA concentrations decreased and DMPAO concentration increased under the flooded conditions; however, their concentrations remained unchanged underthe upland conditions. DMPAO was detected in the straw of the rice grown in PAA- or MPAA-amended soil but was not detected in that grown in a PAA- or MPAA-added solution culture. MDPAO was detected in the straw of the rice grown in diphenylarsinic acid (DPAA)-amended soil but was not detected in that grown in a DPAA-added solution culture. Thus, MPAA and DPAA were methylated not in the rice plant but in the soil under the flooded conditions. Dephenylated products were detected in the straw grown in AA-added solution cultures, but demethylated products were not detected. DMPAO and MDPAO absorbed by the shoots were retained, and MPAA and DPAA absorbed by the shoots were translocated to the grains more easily than other AAs.
19320496	In this letter, we present a very convenient and efficient technique of direct replication of biological structures via a two-step phase-separation micromolding process (PSmicroM). Our study has demonstrated that PSmicroM can be used to replicate the surface structure of a lotus leaf. On one hand, the micro/nanostructures of the lotus leaf are well replicated after a two-step PSmicroM. On the other hand, the replicated artificial lotus leaf shows good superhydrophobicity, similar to that of the natural lotus leaf. In addition, we have also applied the same technique to replicate a rice leaf and have confirmed that replicated artificial rice leaves can exhibit not only a very similar structure of the natural rice leaf but also surface anisotropic wetting. It is greatly anticipated that this PSmicroM can be extended to mimic many other biostructures, therefore opening new avenues for surface molecular engineering.
19320931	The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of piglet age and dietary fibre source on the development of visceral organs and the gastrointestinal tract (GIT), and on growth performance and total tract apparent digestibility (TTAD) in local [pure-breed Mong cai (MC)] and exotic [Landrace x Yorkshire (LY)] piglets. The experimental diets contained different fibre sources: C (basal diet), RB (basal diet + rice bran), SPVM (basal diet + sweet potato vine meal) and CReM (basal diet + cassava residue meal). The neutral detergent fibre (NDF) content in diet C and the fibrous diets was 8.8% and 17.1%-17.7% respectively (dry matter basis). Collection of faecal samples to determine TTAD was carried out for five consecutive days before the experiment was finished (63 days). The piglets were killed at the age of 10 days (before being given the same solid feed), 30 days (weaning, 20 days after solid feed introduced) and 63 days (33 days after being given the different fibrous diets) when the length of intestinal segments, weight of organs (liver, heart, kidneys) and empty weight of the GIT (stomach, small intestine, caecum and colon + rectum) were measured. As the age of animals increased, the relative weight of organs and the length of intestines (expressed on a mass-specific basis) decreased (p < 0.05), and the weight of GIT increased (p < 0.001). The piglets fed fibrous diets had heavier GIT than those fed diet C with the highest values in CReM (p < 0.05). The colon + rectum length was not significantly different among C, RB and SPVM, but was shorter than in CReM (p < 0.05). Coefficient of total tract apparent digestibility (CTTAD) of nutrients in the fibrous diets was lower than in C (p < 0.01). Average daily gain (ADG) and feed conversion ratio (FCR) in C, RB and CReM were not different and were better than in SPVM (p < 0.01). There were no significant differences in the weights of organs between the two breeds at day 10, 30 and 63 (p > 0.05). The weight and length of GIT were not significantly different between the two breeds at day 10 and day 30, but were greater for MC at day 63. The caecum and colon + rectum at 10 and 30 days were longer in MC than in LY (p < 0.001). The relative development of GIT post-weaning was higher than pre-weaning, the difference being most apparent in MC. As a result at 63 days, MC had heavier visceral organs and GIT, and longer intestines on fibrous diets than LY (p < 0.05). The MC at 63 days had higher CTTAD of organic matter, gross energy, crude fibre and NDF (p < 0.001) and ether extract and crude protein (p < 0.05), but lower ADG and poorer FCR than LY (p < 0.001). It can be concluded that the GIT of the MC piglets developed more rapidly than LY when they were introduced to solid feed, and that the difference was more marked on the fibrous diets and after weaning, which resulted in higher total tract digestibility of nutrients in MC compared with LY. Cassava residue meal was better digested than RB and SPVM, and supported higher live weight gains.
19320995	The induction of genomic deletions by physical- or chemical- agents is an easy and inexpensive means to generate a genome-saturating collection of mutations. Different mutagens can be selected to ensure a mutant collection with a range of deletion sizes. This would allow identification of mutations in single genes or, alternatively, a deleted group of genes that might collectively govern a trait (e.g., quantitative trait loci, QTL). However, deletion mutants have not been widely used in functional genomics, because the mutated genes are not tagged and therefore, difficult to identify. Here, we present a microarray-based approach to identify deleted genomic regions in rice mutants selected from a large collection generated by gamma ray or fast neutron treatment. Our study focuses not only on the utility of this method for forward genetics, but also its potential as a reverse genetics tool through accumulation of hybridization data for a collection of deletion mutants harboring multiple genetic lesions. We demonstrate that hybridization of labeled genomic DNA directly onto the Affymetrix Rice GeneChip allows rapid localization of deleted regions in rice mutants. Deletions ranged in size from one gene model to approximately 500 kb and were predicted on all 12 rice chromosomes. The utility of the technique as a tool in forward genetics was demonstrated in combination with an allelic series of mutants to rapidly narrow the genomic region, and eventually identify a candidate gene responsible for a lesion mimic phenotype. Finally, the positions of mutations in 14 mutants were aligned onto the rice pseudomolecules in a user-friendly genome browser to allow for rapid identification of untagged mutations http://irfgc.irri.org/cgi-bin/gbrowse/IR64_deletion_mutants/. We demonstrate the utility of oligonucleotide arrays to discover deleted genes in rice. The density and distribution of deletions suggests the feasibility of a database saturated with deletions across the rice genome. This community resource can continue to grow with further hybridizations, allowing researchers to quickly identify mutants that harbor deletions in candidate genomic regions, for example, regions containing QTL of interest.
19321431	Water deficit or dehydration is the most crucial environmental constraint on plant growth and development and crop productivity. It has been postulated that plants respond and adapt to dehydration by altering their cellular metabolism and by activating various defense machineries. The nucleus, the regulatory hub of the eukaryotic cell, is a dynamic system and a repository of various macromolecules that serve as modulators of cell signaling dictating the cell fate decision. To better understand the molecular mechanisms of dehydration-responsive adaptation in plants, we developed a comprehensive nuclear proteome of rice. The proteome was determined using a sequential method of organellar enrichment followed by two-dimensional electrophoresis-based protein identification by LC-ESI-MS/MS. We initially screened several commercial rice varieties and parental lines and established their relative dehydration tolerance. The differential display of nuclear proteins in the tolerant variety under study revealed 150 spots that showed changes in their intensities by more than 2.5-fold. The proteomics analysis led to the identification of 109 differentially regulated proteins presumably involved in a variety of functions, including transcriptional regulation and chromatin remodeling, signaling and gene regulation, cell defense and rescue, and protein degradation. The dehydration-responsive nuclear proteome revealed a coordinated response involving both regulatory and functional proteins, impinging upon the molecular mechanism of dehydration adaptation. Furthermore a comparison between the dehydration-responsive nuclear proteome of rice and that of a legume, the chickpea, showed an evolutionary divergence in dehydration response comprising a few conserved proteins, whereas most of the proteins may be involved in crop-specific adaptation. These results might help in understanding the spectrum of nuclear proteins and the biological processes they control under dehydration as well as having implications for strategies to improve dehydration tolerance in plants.
19321648	The control of male fertility is of vital importance for crop breeding, hybrid generation, and the control of pollen release. Recent development in the analysis of Arabidopsis male sterile mutants has meant that there is a greater understanding of the gene regulatory networks controlling maternal development of the anther and the resultant sporophytes. With the advent of the genome sequence and tools to allow the analysis of gene function, this knowledge base is now extending into the monocot crop rice. This has shown high levels of similarity between the networks of pollen development in Arabidopsis and rice, which will serve as valuable tools to understand and manipulate this developmental pathway further in plants.
19321735	Cold acclimation involves a number of different cellular processes that together increase the freezing tolerance of an organism. The DREB1/CBFs are transcription factors (TFs) that are prominent in the regulation of cold responses in Arabidopsis thaliana, rice and many other crops. We investigated if the expression of DREB1/CBFs and co-expressed genes relies on combinatorial control by several TFs. Our results support this notion and indicate that methods for studying the regulation of complex cellular processes should include identification of combinations of motifs, in addition to searching for individual overrepresented binding sites.
19322558	Resistance gene H26, derived from Aegilops tauschii Coss., is one of the most effective R genes against the Hessian fly [Mayetiola destructor (Say)], an important pest of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Using a limited number of PCR-based molecular markers a previous study mapped H26 to the wheat chromosomal deletion bin 3DL3-0.81-1.00. The objectives of this study were to saturate the chromosomal region harboring H26 with newly developed PCR-based markers and to investigate the collinearity of this wheat chromosomal region with rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Brachypodium distachyon genome. A population of 96 F(2) individuals segregating at the H26 gene locus was used for saturation mapping. All wheat ESTs assigned to the deletion bin 3DL3-0.81-1.00 were used to design STS (sequence tagged site) primers. The wheat ESTs mapped near H26 were further used to BLAST rice and B. distachyon genomic sequences for comparative mapping. To date, 26 newly developed STS markers have been mapped to the chromosomal region spanning the H26 locus. Two of them were mapped 1.0 cM away from the H26 locus. Comparative analysis identified genomic regions on rice chromosome 1 and Brachypodium Super contig 13 which are collinear with the genomic region spanning the H26 locus within the distal region of 3DL. The newly developed STS markers closely linked to H26 will be useful for mapped-based cloning of H26 and marker-assisted selection of this gene in wheat breeding. The results will also enhance understanding of this chromosomal region which contains several other Hessian fly resistance genes.
19322663	The outermost surfaces of plants are covered with an epicuticular wax layer that provides a primary waterproof barrier and protection against different environmental stresses. Glossy 1 (GL1) is one of the reported genes controlling wax synthesis. This study analyzed GL1-homologous genes in Oryza sativa and characterized the key members of this family involved in wax synthesis and stress resistance. Sequence analysis revealed 11 homologous genes of GL1 in rice, designated OsGL1-1 to OsGL1-11. OsGL1-1, -2 and -3 are closely related to GL1. OsGL1-4, -5, -6, and -7 are closely related to Arabidopsis CER1 that is involved in cuticular wax biosynthesis. OsGL1-8, -9, -10 and -11 are closely related to SUR2 encoding a putative sterol desaturase also involved in epicuticular wax biosynthesis. These genes showed variable expression levels in different tissues and organs of rice, and most of them were induced by abiotic stresses. Compared to the wild type, the OsGL1-2-over-expression rice exhibited more wax crystallization and a thicker epicuticular layer; while the mutant of this gene showed less wax crystallization and a thinner cuticular layer. Chlorophyll leaching experiment suggested that the cuticular permeability was decreased and increased in the over-expression lines and the mutant, respectively. Quantification analysis of wax composition by GC-MS revealed a significant reduction of total cuticular wax in the mutant and increase of total cuticular wax in the over-expression plants. Compared to the over-expression and wild type plants, the osgl1-2 mutant was more sensitive to drought stress at reproductive stage, suggesting an important role of this gene in drought resistance.
19322668	LTR retrotransposons belong to a major group of DNA sequences that are often localized in plant centromeres. Using BAC inserts originating from the centromere of a monosomic wild beet (Beta procumbens) chromosome fragment in Beta vulgaris, two complete LTR retrotransposons were identified. Both elements, designated Beetle1 and Beetle2, possess a coding region with genes in the order characteristic for Ty3-gypsy retrotransposons. Beetle1 and Beetle2 have a chromodomain in the C-terminus of the integrase gene and are highly similar to the centromeric retrotransposons (CRs) of rice, maize, and barley. Both retroelements were localized in the centromeric region of B. procumbens chromosomes by fluorescence in-situ hybridization. They can therefore be classified as centromere-specific chromoviruses. PCR analysis using RNA as template indicated that Beetle1 and Beetle2 are transcriptionally active. On the basis of the sequence diversity between the LTR sequences, it was estimated that Beetle1 and Beetle2 transposed within the last 60,000 years and 130,000 years, respectively. The centromeric localization of Beetle1 and Beetle2 and their transcriptional activity combined with high sequence conservation within each family play an important structural role in the centromeres of B. procumbens chromosomes.
19323278	A solid-state bioprocess with wheat bran and rice husk as substrate was used to isolate filamentous fungi with lipase activity from dairy effluent and soil contaminated with diesel oil. The lipase activity was measured in units, with one unit (U) being defined as the amount of enzyme required to liberate 1 micromol of fatty acids per minute per gram of bran substrate (1 U = 1 micromol min(-1) g(-1)). We obtained 24 isolates of filamentous fungi with lipase activity, 17 from the dairy effluent and 7 from the diesel oil-contaminated soil. The best lipase producers were the dairy effluent isolate Aspergillus E-6, with a maximum lipase activity of 49.81 U, and Aspergillus isolate O-4 recovered from the diesel oil-contaminated soil, with a maximum lipase activity of 45.49 U. Both isolates produced their maximum lipase activity eight days after the start of the bioprocess.
19323496	Late watergrass [ Echinochloa phyllopogon (Stapf.) Koss.] is a major weed of California rice that has evolved P450-mediated metabolic resistance to multiple herbicides. Resistant (R) populations are also poorly controlled by the recently introduced herbicide penoxsulam. Ratios (R/S) of the R to susceptible (S) GR(50) (herbicide rate for 50% growth reduction) ranged from 5 to 9. Although specific acetolactate synthase (ALS) activity was 1.7 higher in R than in S plants, the enzyme in R plants was about 6 times more susceptible to the herbicide. R plants exhibited faster (2.8 times) oxidative [(14)C]-penoxsulam metabolism than S plants 24 h after treatment. Addition of malathion (P450 inhibitor) enhanced herbicide phytotoxicity and reduced penoxsulam metabolism in R plants. Tank mixtures with thiobencarb (can induce P450) antagonized penoxsulam toxicity in R plants, suggesting penoxsulam may be broken down by a thiobencarb-inducible enzyme. These results suggest E. phyllopogon resistance to penoxsulam is mostly due to enhanced herbicide metabolism, possibly via P450 monooxidation.
19323746	Rice bran oil (RBO) was fractionated into 2 phases, solid (S-RBO) and liquid (L-RBO), using acetone at -18 degrees C and the weight yield of each S-RBO and L-RBO was 45.5% and 54.5%, respectively. Then, trans-free hard fat was synthesized from trans-free substrate of S-RBO and fully hydrogenated soybean oil (FHSBO) at different molar ratios (S-RBO : FHSBO; 1 : 1, 1 : 1.5, 1 : 2, and 1 : 3) with Lipozyme TL IM lipase (10% of total substrate). Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA, 20% of total substrate) was used as functional fatty acids for the production of trans-free hard fat. After fatty acid analysis, CLA (12.2% to 14.2%) was found on the triacylglycerol (TAG) backbone of the interesterified products along with stearic (37.6% to 49%), palmitic (15% to 17.9%), and oleic acids (13.3% to 19.2%). The interesterified product contained higher level of saturated fatty acid (62.6% to 70.1%) at sn-2 position. Total tocopherols (alpha-, gamma-, and delta-; 1.4 to 2.6 mg/100 g) and phytosterols (campesterol, stigmasterol, and beta-sitosterol; 220.5 to 362.7 mg/100 g) were found in the interesterified products. From DSC results, solid fat contents of the interesterified products (S-RBO : FHSBO 1 : 1, 1 : 1.5, 1 : 2, and 1 : 3) at 25 degrees C were 23.1%, 27%, 30.1%, and 44.9%. The interesterified products consisted mostly of beta' form crystal with a small portion of beta form. The interesterified product (S-RBO : FHSBO 1 : 1.5) was softer than the physical blend but slightly harder than commercial shortenings as measured by texture analyzer. Thus, trans-free hard fat stock, which may have a potential functionality could be produced with various physical properties.
19324458	Salt stress adversely affects plant growth and development. Some plants reduce the damage of high-salt stress by expressing a series of salt-responsive genes. Studies of the molecular mechanism of the salt-stress response have focused on the characterization of components involved in signal perception and transduction. In the present work, we cloned and characterized a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) encoding gene, OrbHLH2, from wild rice (Oryza rufipogon), which encodes a homologue protein of ICE1 in Arabidopsis. OrbHLH2 protein localized in the nucleus. Overexpression of OrbHLH2 in Arabidopsis conferred increased tolerance to salt and osmotic stress, and the stress-responsive genes DREB1A/CBF3, RD29A, COR15A and KIN1 were upregulated in transgenic plants. Abscisic acid (ABA) treatment showed a similar effect on the seed germination or transcriptional expression of stress-responsive genes in both wild type and OrbHLH2-overexpressed plants, which implies that OrbHLH2 does not depend on ABA in responding to salt stress. OrbHLH2 may function as a transcription factor and positively regulate salt-stress signals independent of ABA in Arabidopsis, which provides some useful data for improving salt tolerance in crops.
19325769	A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based diagnostic assay was used to develop markers for detection of Fusarium verticillioides (=F. moniliforme), a fumonisin producing fungus in maize tissues. Species-specific primers were designed based on sequence data from the polyketide synthase (PKS) gene (FUM1- previously FUM5) responsible for fumonisin production in fungi. Four sets of oligonucleotide primers were tested for their specificity using 24 strains of F. verticillioides, 10 F. proliferatum, and 12 of other Fusarium species. In addition, 13 species of other fungal genera, from four phyla, were tested as negative controls. Among the four sets, primer set B consistently amplified a 419-bp fragment from the DNA 96% of all F. verticillioides strains and 83% of F. proliferatum. All other fungi tested were negative using primer set B. A total of 38% of the F. verticillioides strains grown on a selective liquid medium produced fumonisin and 92% formed the toxin on standard rice medium. When fumonisin formed in culture, PCR assay using primer set B detected every strain of F. verticillioides, but only amplified 80% of F. proliferatum strains that produced the toxin. PCR detection was consistent at 100 pg/microl concentration of genomic DNA from 4 F. verticillioides strains, but varied at 10 pg/microl. Two duplicate greenhouse tests using artificially inoculated maize plants, had greater levels of F. verticillioides detected after re-evaluting using primer set B than from culturing of the tissues. The molecular protocols described in this study requires only 1 day for completion compared to approximately 10 days for cultural work and morphological determination. In conclusion, conventional PCR assay using primer set B provides a sensitive and accurate detection assay that can be used as a primary or secondary confirmation method for identification and occurrence of F. verticillioides within the maize tissues. However, studies using primer set B for fumonisin production determined by strains of F. verticillioides and F. proliferatum will require further verification.
19326262	Rice exhibits the greatest aluminum (Al) tolerance compared with other cereals such as wheat, barley, maize, etc. A full-length gene, OsCS1, encoding citrate synthase, which is highly induced by aluminum toxicity in rice (Oryza sativa L.), was isolated. Sequence analysis and the sub-cellular localization of OsCS1 in yeast revealed that it is a mitochondrial citrate synthase. OsCS1 was induced by Al toxicity. Several independent transgenic tobacco lines expressing OsCS 1 exhibited increased citrate efflux and extraordinary Al tolerance. Possible outlook for OsCS1 to be applied to enhance plant tolerance to Al toxicity was also discussed.
1932688	The maize rab17 gene is expressed in different plant parts in response to ABA and osmotic stress (J. Vilardell et al., Plant Mol Biol 14 (1990) 423-432). Here we demonstrate that 5' upstream sequences of the rab17 gene confer the appropriate patterns of expression on the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) reporter gene in transgenic tobacco plants, as well as in protoplasts derived from cultured rice cells. Specifically, a CAT construct containing a large 5' upstream fragment of rab17 (-1330/+29) results in high levels of CAT activity in embryos, leaves and roots of transgenic plants subjected to water stress or ABA treatment. Transient expression assays in rice protoplasts transfected with CAT genes fused to rab17 promoter deletions indicate that a 300 bp DNA fragment (-351/-102) is sufficient to confer ABA responsiveness upon the reporter gene. Furthermore, a 100 bp sequence (-219/-102) is capable of conferring ABA responsiveness upon a minimal promoter derived from the 35S CaMV promoter. Gel retardation experiments indicate that maize nuclear proteins bind to this fragment. This region of 100 bp contains a sequence (ACGTGGC) which has been identified as an abscisic acid response element in studies of other ABA-responsive plant genes.
19326953	One rice (Oryza sativa) gene, sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS), has been proven to be a suitable endogenous reference gene for genetically modified (GM) rice detection in a previous study. Herein are the reported results of an international collaborative ring trial for validation of the SPS gene as an endogenous reference gene and its optimized qualitative and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) systems. A total of 12 genetically modified organism (GMO) detection laboratories from seven countries participated in the ring trial and returned their results. The validated results confirmed the species specificity of the method through testing 10 plant genomic DNAs, low heterogeneity, and a stable single-copy number of the rice SPS gene among 7 indica varieties and 5 japonica varieties. The SPS qualitative PCR assay was validated with a limit of detection (LOD) of 0.1%, which corresponded to about 230 copies of haploid rice genomic DNA, while the limit of quantification (LOQ) for the quantitative PCR system was about 23 copies of haploid rice genomic DNA, with acceptable PCR efficiency and linearity. Furthermore, the bias between the test and true values of eight blind samples ranged from 5.22 to 26.53%. Thus, we believe that the SPS gene is suitable for use as an endogenous reference gene for the identification and quantification of GM rice and its derivates.
19327132	Renowned for their fast growth, valuable wood properties and wide adaptability, Eucalyptus species are amongst the most planted hardwoods in the world, yet they are still at the early stages of domestication because conventional breeding is slow and costly. Thus, there is huge potential for marker-assisted breeding programs to improve traits such as wood properties. To this end, the sequencing, analysis and annotation of a large collection of expressed sequences tags (ESTs) from genes involved in wood formation in Eucalyptus would provide a valuable resource. We report here the normalization and sequencing of a cDNA library from developing Eucalyptus secondary xylem, as well as the construction and sequencing of two subtractive libraries (juvenile versus mature wood and vice versa). A total of 9,222 high quality sequences were collected from about 10,000 cDNA clones. The EST assembly generated a set of 3,857 wood-related unigenes including 2,461 contigs (Cg) and 1,396 singletons (Sg) that we named 'EUCAWOOD'. About 65% of the EUCAWOOD sequences produced matches with poplar, grapevine, Arabidopsis and rice protein sequence databases. BlastX searches of the Uniref100 protein database allowed us to allocate gene ontology (GO) and protein family terms to the EUCAWOOD unigenes. This annotation of the EUCAWOOD set revealed key functional categories involved in xylogenesis. For instance, 422 sequences matched various gene families involved in biosynthesis and assembly of primary and secondary cell walls. Interestingly, 141 sequences were annotated as transcription factors, some of them being orthologs of regulators known to be involved in xylogenesis. The EUCAWOOD dataset was also mined for genomic simple sequence repeat markers, yielding a total of 639 putative microsatellites. Finally, a publicly accessible database was created, supporting multiple queries on the EUCAWOOD dataset. In this work, we have identified a large set of wood-related Eucalyptus unigenes called EUCAWOOD, thus creating a valuable resource for functional genomics studies of wood formation and molecular breeding in this economically important genus. This set of publicly available annotated sequences will be instrumental for candidate gene approaches, custom array development and marker-assisted selection programs aimed at improving and modulating wood properties.
19327164	Although histone deacetylases from model organisms have been previously identified, there is no clear basis for the classification of histone deacetylases under the RPD3/HDA1 superfamily, particularly on plants. Thus, this study aims to reconstruct a phylogenetic tree to determine evolutionary relationships between RPD3/HDA1 histone deacetylases from six different plants representing dicots with Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, and Pinus taeda, monocots with Oryza sativa and Zea mays, and the lower plants with Physcomitrella patens. Sixty two histone deacetylases of RPD3/HDA1 family from the six plant species were phylogenetically analyzed to determine corresponding orthologues. Three clusters were formed separating Class I, Class II, and Class IV. We have confirmed lower and higher plant orthologues for AtHDA8 and AtHDA14, classifying both genes as Class II histone deacetylases in addition to AtHDA5, AtHDA15, and AtHDA18. Since Class II histone deacetylases in other eukaryotes have been known to undergo nucleocytoplasmic transport, it remains unknown whether such functional regulation also happens in plants. Thus, bioinformatics studies using different programs and databases were conducted to predict their corresponding localization sites, nuclear export signal, nuclear localization signal, as well as expression patterns. We also found new conserved domains in most of the RPD3/HDA1 histone deacetylases which were similarly conserved in its corresponding orthologues. Assessing gene expression patterns using Genevestigator, it appears that RPD3/HDA1 histone deacetylases are expressed all throughout the plant parts and developmental stages of the plant. The RPD3/HDA1 histone deacetylase family in plants is divided into three distinct groups namely, Class I, Class II, and Class IV suggesting functional diversification. Class II comprises not only AtHDA5, AtHDA15, and AtHDA18 but also includes AtHDA8 and AtHDA14. New conserved domains have also been identified in most of the RPD3/HDA1 family indicating further versatile roles other than histone deacetylation.
19328509	Our environment hosts a vast diversity of venomous and poisonous animals and plants. Clinical toxinology is devoted to understanding, preventing and treating their effects in humans and domestic animals. In Sri Lanka, yellow oleander (Thevetia peruviana, Sinhala 'kaneru'), a widespread and accessible ornamental shrub, is a popular means of self-harm. Its toxic glycosides resemble those of foxglove, against which therapeutic antibodies have been raised. A randomised placebo-controlled trial proved that this treatment effectively reversed kaneru cardiotoxicity. There are strong scientific grounds for the use of activated charcoal, but encouraging results with multiple-dose activated charcoal were not confirmed by a recent more powerful study. Venom of Russell's viper (Daboia siamensis) in Burma (Myanmar) produces lethal effects in human victims. The case of a 17-year-old rice farmer is described with pathophysiological interpretations. During the first 9 days of hospital admission he suffered episodes of shock, coagulopathy, bleeding, acute renal failure, local tissue necrosis, generally increased capillary permeability and acute symptomatic hypoglycaemia with evidence of acute pituitary/adrenal insufficiency. Antivenom rapidly restored haemostatic function but failed to correct other effects of venom toxins incurred during the 3h before he could be treated.
1932853
19328673	Most phytoremediation studies utilize merA or merB genes to modify plants via the nuclear or chloroplast genome, expressing organomercurial lyase and/or mercuric ion reductase in the cytoplasm, endoplasmic reticulum or within plastids. Several plant species including Arabidopsis, tobacco, poplar, rice, Eastern cottonwood, peanut, salt marsh grass and Chlorella have been transformed with these genes. Transgenic plants grew exceedingly well in soil contaminated with organic (approximately 400 microM PMA) or inorganic mercury (approximately 500 microM HgCl(2)), accumulating Hg in roots surpassing the concentration in soil (approximately 2000 microg/g). However, none of these plants were tested in the field to demonstrate real potential of this approach. Availability of metal transporters, translocators, chelators and the ability to express membrane proteins could further enhance mercury phytoremediation capabilities.
19328859	Acetogens are ubiquitous in many anaerobic habitats and play a very important role in bioconversion and biodegradation of organic compounds. Methods for rapid detection and quantification of acetogens in different environments are urgently needed to understand the in situ activities in complicated microbial communities. To overcome the limitations of culture-dependent methods and provide enhanced diagnostic tools for determination of the ecological roles of acetogens in different habitats, a quantitative real-time PCR (qrt-PCR) approach targeting functional FTHFS (fhs) gene encoding the formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase was developed. Novel primers flanking the FTHFS fragment were designed and tested. High specificity and sensitivity for estimation of the abundance of acetogens were confirmed analysis of a collection of acetogens, clone libraries and melting curves. The utility of the assay was validated and used in quantifying the FTHFS gene present in different anoxic and oxic habitats, including anoxic and oxic sludges, lake sediment, sewage sullage as well as flooded rice field soils. The abundance of FTHFS gene recovered by fhs1 assay was in the order of magnitude of 10(5) up to 10(7) copies per gram of dry weight sample, and the maximum calculated abundance of acetogens relative to Eubacteria was 0.6-0.9%, confirming the low proportion of acetogens to total bacteria in environments.
19329236	The correlations among arsenic (As) accumulation in grains and straw, rates of radial oxygen loss (ROL), and porosity of roots using 25 rice cultivars were investigated based on two pot experiments: (1) soil with addition of 100mg As kg(-1) for analysis of As in grains and straw, and (2) deoxygenated solution for analyzing rates of ROL and porosity of roots. The results showed that there were great differences in grain As (0.71-1.72 mg kg(-1)) and straw As (15.6-31.7 mg kg(-1)), rates of ROL (7.40-13.24 mmol O(2)kg(-1)root d.w. h(-1)), and porosity (20.91-33.08%) among the cultivars. There were significant negative correlations between As in grains or straw and ROL and porosity, and significant positive correlations between rates of ROL and porosities, respectively. Rice cultivars with high porosities tended to possess higher rates of ROL, and had higher capacities for limiting the transfer of As to aboveground tissues.
19329586	The taxonomic position of a novel bacterial strain, YC6269(T), isolated from the rhizosphere of rice (Oryza sativa L.) managed under no-tillage practice in Jinju, South Korea, was studied using polyphasic approach. Cells of the strain were Gram-negative, rod-shaped and facultatively anaerobic. The novel strain grew at a temperature of 15-42 degrees C (optimum at 28 degrees C). Growth of the strain occurred between pH 5.5 and 11.0, with an optimum at pH 7.0-8.0. The G+C content of the total DNA was 67.4 mol%. The 16S rRNA gene sequence of the strain was most closely related to species of the genus Lysobacter, Lysobacter yangpyeongensis DSM 17635(T) (98.6 %), Lysobacter niabensis GH34-4(T) (97.2 %), Lysobacter enzymogenes DSM 2043(T) (96.9 %), Lysobacter daejeonensis DSM 17634(T) (96.3 %) and Lysobacter niastensis GH41-7(T) (96.2 %). The novel strain showed <96.0 % similarity with other species of the genus Lysobacter. Chemotaxonomic data (major quinone, Q-8; major polar lipids, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidyl-N-methylethanolamine, and major fatty acids, C(15 : 0) iso, C(16 : 0) iso, C(17 : 0) iso and C(17 : 1) iso omega9c) supported the affiliation of strain YC6269(T) to the genus Lysobacter. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene sequences, DNA-DNA hybridization data and biochemical and physiological characteristics strongly supported the genotypic and phenotypic differentiation of strain YC6269(T) from recognized species of the genus Lysobacter. Strain YC6269(T), therefore, represents a novel member of the genus Lysobacter, for which the name Lysobacter oryzae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is YC6269(T) (=KCTC 22249(T)=DSM 21044(T)).
19329631	Burkholderia glumae is the causative agent of grain and seedling rot in rice and of bacterial wilt in many field crops. Here, we report the complete genome sequence of B. glumae BGR1 isolated from a diseased rice panicle in Korea.
19329677	The salinity and cation composition of water and soil were documented in a large (98 km(2)) wastewater-irrigated area (WIA) downstream of Hyderabad, India. The wastewater, which flows in a river that passes through the city, had a high to very high salinity hazard (EC = 1.1-3.0 dS m(-1)) that increased with distance from the city. The EC of soil irrigated by wastewater sampled within 8 km of the city was 6.2 to 8.4 times the EC of soil irrigated by uncontaminated groundwater. Between 57 to 100% of soil samples in the upper 10 cm within 8 km of the city exceeded the salinity tolerance of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Soil salinity fell rapidly after 8 km downstream and changed most in the upper 0 to 5 cm of the soil, indicating retention of cations in the upper soil horizon. The effect of wastewater irrigation on soil exchangeable cations was most evident for Na(+) (Exch-Na) near the city (<8 km downstream), where Exch-Na averaged 20 to 22 times the Exch-Na in soils irrigated by groundwater outside the WIA. Exchangeable Mg(+) and K(+) correlated with clay percentage, though both still had higher concentrations near the city controlling for clay content. Near the city, where salinity and Exch-Na concentrations were highest, farmers had replaced rice with para grass [Brachiaria mutica (Forsk.)], which has higher salinity tolerance and expanding demand as a fodder crop. Salinity may constrain rice production in wastewater-irrigated areas of India and elsewhere.
19330095	Osmotin promoter binding protein 1 (OPBP1), an AP2/ERF transcription factor of tobacco, has been demonstrated to function in disease resistance and salt tolerance in tobacco. To increase stress tolerant capability of rice, we generated rice plants with an OPBP1 overexpressing construct. Salinity shock treatment with 250 mM NaCl indicated that most of the OPBP1 transgenic plants can survive, whereas the control seedlings cannot. Similar recovery was found by using the seedlings grown in 200 mM NaCl for two weeks. The OPBP1 transgenic and control plants were also studied for oxidative stress tolerance by treatment with paraquat, showing the transgenic lines were damaged less in comparison with the control plants. Further, the OPBP1 overexpression lines exhibited enhanced resistance to infections of Magnaporthe oryzae and Rhizoctonia solani pathogens. Gene expressing analysis showed increase in mRNA accumulation of several stress related genes. These results suggest that expression of OPBP1 gene increase the detoxification capability of rice.
19330366	Endosperm carotenoid content in wheat is a primary determinant of flour colour and this affects both the nutritional value of the grain and its utility for different applications. Utilising wheat rice synteny two genes, epsilon-cyclase (epsilon-LCY) and phytoene synthase (Psy-A1), were identified as candidate genes for two of the QTL affecting lutein content in wheat endosperm. Analysis of the sequence changes in epsilon-LCY and Psy-A1 revealed possible causal mechanisms for both QTL. A point mutation in epsilon-LCY results in the substitution of a conserved amino acid in the high lutein allele. This substitution has been observed in high lutein-accumulating species from the Gentiales order. In Psy-A1, a sequence duplication at the end of exon 2 creates a new splice site and causes alternative splicing of the transcript and activation of a cryptic exon, resulting in four different transcripts: a wild-type transcript, two transcripts with early terminations and a transcript that would produce an in-frame, albeit longer protein. Only the wild-type splice variant produced an enzymatically active protein and its mRNA abundance was reduced by titration with the other splice variants. This reduction in wild-type mRNA is argued to result in a reduction in PSY protein and thus carotenoid content in wheat.
19330532	Herbicide-resistant rice cultivars allow selective weed control. A glufosinate indica rice has been developed locally. However, there is concern about weedy rice becoming herbicide resistant through gene flow. Therefore, assessment of gene flow from indica rice cultivars to weedy rice is crucial in Tropical America. A field trial mimicking crop-weed growing patterns was established to assess the rate of hybridization between a Costa Rican glufosinate-resistant rice line (PPT-R) and 58 weedy rice accessions belonging to six weedy rice morphotypes. The effects of overlapping anthesis, morphotype, weedy accession/PPT-R percentage, and the particular weedy accession on hybridization rates were evaluated. Weedy rice accessions with short overlapping anthesis (4-9 days) had lower average hybridization rates (0.1%) than long anthesis overlapping (10-14 days) accessions (0.3%). Hybridization also varied according to weedy rice morphotype and accession. Sativa-like morphotypes (WM-020, WM-120) hybridized more readily than intermediate (WM-023, WM-073, WM-121) and rufipogon-like (WM-329) morphotypes. No hybrids were identified in 11 of the 58 accessions analyzed, 21 accessions had hybridization rates from 0.01% to 0.09%, 21 had rates from 0.1% to 0.9%, and 5 had frequencies from 1% to 2.3%. Another field trial was established to compare the weedy rice-PPT-R F(1) hybrids with their parental lines under noncompetitive conditions. F(1) hybrids had a greater phenotypic variation. They had positive heterosis for vegetative trait and reproductive potential (number of spikelets and panicle length) traits, but negative heterosis for seed set. This study demonstrated the complexity of factors affecting hybridization rates in Tropical America and suggested that the phenotype of F(1) hybrids facilitate their identification in the rice fields.
19330631	The enrichment of gluten-free (GF) baked products with dietary fibre (DF) seems to be necessary since it has been reported that coeliac patients have generally a low intake of DF due to their GF diet. Response surface methodology was used to optimize a fibre-enriched GF bread formulation based on corn starch, rice flour and hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose. Maize fibre and water were the predictor variables (factors), and loaf specific volume, crumb firmness and crumb L value were the dependent variables (responses) used to assess the product quality. The optimal formulation, determined from the data, contained 6.5% maize fibre and 102.5% water, starch/flour base. The developed mathematical models for the measured responses could be successfully used for their prediction during baking. Shelf-life study of the optimized formulation revealed that bread stored under modified atmosphere packaging exhibited lower crumb firmness and moisture content values, and thus remained softer through storage. Scanning electron microscopy of the crumb showed a continuum matrix between starch and maize fibre, in the optimized formulation, obtaining a more aerated structure.
1933066	Epidemiological studies undertaken in an area of low altitude in Burundi, revealed microgeographic variations of malaria endemicity, naturally unstable in the area. However transmission is relatively high near rice fields. The transmission increases at the end of the rainy season, period of natural decrease of the vector population combined with an increase of their longevity. Indoor spraying with short acting insecticides during that period of the year, reduced considerably the transmission and high parasitaemia in children, without changing the susceptibility of the vector to the insecticide.
19330782	Radical reactions: The ground-state potential energy surface of the C(2)H(5)O system is investigated by ab initio methods using optimized geometries. The rate constants for the unimolecular isomerization and decomposition reactions of the three isomeric radicals (see picture) are calculated by microcanonical transition-state theory at 200-3000 K, varying the pressures of the diluents.The ground-state potential energy surface of the C(2)H(5)O system, including the decomposition and isomerization of the ethoxy (CH(3)CH(2)O), 1-hydroxyethyl (CH(3)CHOH), and 2-hydroxyethyl (CH(2)CH(2)OH) radicals, is computed by the modified Gaussian-2 (G2M) and CCSD(T)/6-311+G(3df,2p) methods by using the geometries optimized at the B3LYP/6-311+G(3df,2p) level of theory. These detailed reaction pathways are used to calculate the rate constants for the unimolecular isomerization and decomposition reactions of the three radicals by the microcanonical transition-state theory and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory in the temperature range of 200-3000 K at varying pressures of He and other diluents. The predicted rate constants are in reasonable agreement with the available experimental data. In addition, the predicted heats of formation of the three isomeric radicals are compared with available experimental and theoretical values.
19334756	Evaluation of eating quality in early breeding generations of rice is critical to developing varieties with better palatability. This paper reports DNA markers associated with eating quality of temperate japonica rice and an evaluation method aided by multiple regression analysis. A total of 30 markers comprising STSs, SNPs, and SSRs were tested for their association with palatability using 22 temperate japonica varieties with different palatability values. Eating quality-related traits of the 22 varieties were also measured. Of the 30 markers, 18 were found to be significantly associated with palatability and, consequently, a model regression equation with an R(2) value of 0.99 was formulated to estimate the palatability by the marker data set. Validation of the model equation using selected breeding lines indicated that the marker set and the equation are highly applicable to evaluation of the palatability of cooked rice in temperate japonica varieties.
19335619	Usage of synonymous codons represents a characteristic pattern of preference in each organism. It has been inferred that such bias of codon usage has evolved as a result of adaptation for efficient synthesis of proteins. Here we examined synonymous codon usage in genes of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and compared codon usage bias with expression levels of the gene. In this organism, synonymous codon usage bias was correlated with expression levels of the gene; the bias was most obvious in two-codon amino acids. A similar pattern of the codon usage bias was also observed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Arabidopsis thaliana and Caenorhabditis elegans, but was not obvious in Oryza sativa, Drosophila melanogaster, Takifugu rubripes and Homo sapiens. As codons of the highly expressed genes have greater influence on translational efficiency than codons of genes expressed at lower levels, it is likely that codon usage in the S. pombe genome has been optimized by translational selection through evolution.
19335879	Completely sequenced plant genomes provide scope for designing a large number of microsatellite markers, which are useful in various aspects of crop breeding and genetic analysis. With the objective of developing genic but non-coding microsatellite (GNMS) markers for the rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome, we characterized the frequency and relative distribution of microsatellite repeat-motifs in 18,935 predicted protein coding genes including 14,308 putative promoter sequences. We identified 19,555 perfect GNMS repeats with densities ranging from 306.7/Mb in chromosome 1 to 450/Mb in chromosome 12 with an average of 357.5 GNMS per Mb. The average microsatellite density was maximum in the 5' untranslated regions (UTRs) followed by those in introns, promoters, 3'UTRs and minimum in the coding sequences (CDS). Primers were designed for 17,966 (92%) GNMS repeats, including 4,288 (94%) hypervariable class I types, which were bin-mapped on the rice genome. The GNMS markers were most polymorphic in the intronic region (73.3%) followed by markers in the promoter region (53.3%) and least in the CDS (26.6%). The robust polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification efficiency and high polymorphic potential of GNMS markers over genic coding and random genomic microsatellite markers suggest their immediate use in efficient genotyping applications in rice. A set of these markers could assess genetic diversity and establish phylogenetic relationships among domesticated rice cultivar groups. We also demonstrated the usefulness of orthologous and paralogous conserved non-coding microsatellite (CNMS) markers, identified in the putative rice promoter sequences, for comparative physical mapping and understanding of evolutionary and gene regulatory complexities among rice and other members of the grass family. The divergence between long-grained aromatics and subspecies japonica was estimated to be more recent (0.004 Mya) compared to short-grained aromatics from japonica (0.006 Mya) and long-grained aromatics from subspecies indica (0.014 Mya). Our analyses showed that GNMS markers with their high polymorphic potential would be preferred candidate functional markers in various marker-based applications in rice genetics, genomics and breeding. The CNMS markers provided encouraging implications for their use in comparative genome mapping and understanding of evolutionary complexities in rice and other members of grass family.
19337211	In the monocot rice species Oryza sativa L., one of the most striking morphological processes during reproductive development is the concurrence of panicle development with the sequential elongation of upper internodes (UPIs). To elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms, we cloned the rice gene NECK LEAF 1 (NL1), which when mutated results in delays in flowering time, smaller panicles with overgrown bracts and abnormal UPI elongation patterns. The NL1 gene encodes a GATA-type transcription factor with a single zinc finger domain, and its transcripts are detected predominantly in the bract primordia, which normally degenerate in the wild-type plants. Overexpression of NL1 in transgenic plants often gives rise to severe growth retardation, less vegetative phytomers and smaller leaves, suggesting that NL1 plays an important role in organ differentiation. A novel mutant allele of PLASTOCHRON1 (PLA1), a gene known to play a key role in regulating leaf initiation, was identified in this study. Genetic analysis demonstrated an interaction between nl1 and pla1, with NL1 acting upstream of PLA1. The expression level and spatial pattern of PLA1 were found to be altered in the nl1 mutant. Furthermore, the expression of two regulators of flowering, Hd3a and OsMADS1, was also affected in the nl1 mutant. On the basis of these findings, we propose that NL1 is an intrinsic factor that modulates and coordinates organogenesis through regulating the expression of PLA1 and other regulatory genes during reproductive development in rice.
19338074	Superoxide generated during the early imbibition is an excellent marker for evaluating seed vigor. In this paper, a new principle biosensor for non-invasive detection of seed vigor based on quantitative measurement of superoxide via selective probe 2-methyl-6-(p-methoxyphenyl)-3,7-dihydroimidazo [1,2alpha] pyrazin-3-one (MCLA)-mediated chemiluminescence (CL) was developed. The biosensor, which used a compact single-photon counting module (SPCM) to collect the CL signal, could evaluate seed vigor in vivo. Benefiting from the high CL efficiency of MCLA reacting with superoxide and high sensitivity of the SPCM technique, the trace superoxide generated by dry seeds under storage state can be detected to achieve rapid and non-invasive determination of the seed vigor. In comparison with the traditional methods for fast measuring seed vigor based on measurement of physiological and biochemical properties, our proposed technique has significant advantages such as low cost, simplicity, convenient operation and short time consuming. To demonstrate the utility of the system, it was applied to evaluate MCLA-mediated CL of three different plant species wheat (Ze Yu No. 2), maize (Tai Gu No. 1 and 2) and rice (Jing Dao No. 21) seeds with different degrees of aging. The experimental results suggested that there was an excellent positive correlation between the seed vigor assessment from quantitative TTC-test and the detection based on MCLA-mediated CL of superoxide measurement. The new principle of seed vigor measurement is a challenge and breakthrough to conventional method of seed vigor determination and may be a potential technique of the next generation seed vigor detection.
19339499	Abiotic stresses are major limiting factors for growth, development, and productivity of crop plants. Here, we report on OsSKIPa, a rice homolog of human Ski-interacting protein (SKIP) that can complement the lethal defect of the knockout mutant of SKIP homolog in yeast and positively modulate cell viability and stress tolerance of rice. Suppression of OsSKIPa in rice resulted in growth arrest and reduced cell viability. The expression OsSKIPa is induced by various abiotic stresses and phytohormone treatments. Transgenic rice overexpressing OsSKIPa exhibited significantly improved growth performance in the medium containing stress agents (abscisic acid, salt, or mannitol) and drought resistance at both the seedling and reproductive stages. The OsSKIPa-overexpressing rice showed significantly increased reactive oxygen species-scavenging ability and transcript levels of many stress-related genes, including SNAC1 and rice homologs of CBF2, PP2C, and RD22, under drought stress conditions. More than 30 OsSKIPa-interacting proteins were identified, but most of these proteins have no matches with the reported SKIP-interacting proteins in animals and yeast. Together, these data suggest that OsSKIPa has evolved a specific function in positive modulation of stress resistance through transcriptional regulation of diverse stress-related genes in rice.
19339508	Outer cell layers of rice roots, which comprise epidermis, exodermis and sclerenchyma, have been proposed to protect the roots from various stresses in soil. Here, we report a mutant which is defective in the specification of outer cell layers, and examined the role of these layers in Al and other metal resistance. Morphological and histochemical observations revealed that the mutant isolated based on Al sensitivity frequently showed a disordered pattern of periclinal cell division in the epidermal layers at a region close to the root apical meristem. The lateral root caps in the mutant became difficult to peel off from the epidermis, and epidermal cells became smaller and irregular with far fewer root hairs. Furthermore, some exodermal cells were transformed into additional sclerenchyma cells. However, there was no difference in the inner cell layers between the wild-type rice and the mutant. The mutant showed similar root growth to the wild-type rice in the absence of Al, but greater inhibition of root elongation by Al was found in the mutant. Morin staining showed that Al penetrated into the inner cortical cells in the mutant. Furthermore, the mutant was also sensitive to other metals including Cd and La. Taken together, our results indicate that root outer cell layers protect the roots against the toxicity of Al and other metals by preventing metal penetration into the inner cells. Genetic analysis showed that the mutant phenotypes were controlled by a single recessive gene, which was located on the short arm of rice chromosome 2.
1934041	A hospital-based case-control study of 112 patients with esophageal cancer was conducted to explore the association of dietary factors with cancer of the esophagus. Each case was matched to one non-cancerous patient from surgical department in the hospital of the same sex, age (+/- 5 years), occupation (farmer or nonfarmer), and residence as control. Multivariate conditional logistic regression analysis showed that the consumption of moldy grains (odds ratio (OR), 4.08), pickled vegetables (OR, 2.57), tea drinking habit (OR, 5.65), and hot food consumption (OR, 2.53) were significant risk factors for esophageal cancer. Intake of eggs (OR, 0.30) and higher proportion of flour and rice in the grain ration (greater than 30% vs. less than or equal to 30%) (OR, 0.43) were protective factors. Relations between factors were also discussed in the paper.
19340669	To provide the calculated nutritional composition of 18 commonly consumed composite dishes among Afro-Caribbeans residing in the United Kingdom. Weighed recipes were collected in Afro-Caribbean households (mainly Jamaicans) in Manchester, UK. A total of 30 weighed recipes were collected for a variety of 18 Afro-Caribbean composite dishes. Among them, fried dumpling, Ackee and saltfish, fried chicken and rice and peas were high in energy, providing 201-356 kcal/100 g. Fried fish, Ackee and saltfish, stewed fish, and fried chicken had a high fat content (between 11.5% and 25.9%). We have provided for the first time some data on the energy, macronutrient and micronutrient content per 100 g for 18 Afro-Caribbean foods. These recipe data provide essential information for accurately assessing dietary intake and for determining associations between diet and chronic diseases among this population.
19341779	Cry1ab/ac gene was fused by both the cry1ab gene (GenBank Accession No. X54939) and the cry1ac gene (GenBank Accession No. Y09787), which was widely used in genetically modified (GM) rice, cotton, maize and so on. In order to support the safety assessment of GM food or feed products containing Cry1Ab/Ac protein, sufficient quantities of Cry1Ab/Ac protein were produced in Escherichia coli for in vitro evaluation and animal studies. The Cry1Ab/Ac protein does not possess the characteristics associated with food toxins or allergens, i.e., it has no sequence homology with any known allergens or toxins, and no N-glycosylation sites, can be rapidly degraded in gastric and intestinal fluids, and is devoid of adverse effects in mice by gavage at a high dose level of 5g (Cry1Ab/Ac protein)/kg body weight. In conclusion, there is a reasonable certainty of no harm resulting from the inclusion of the Cry1Ab/Ac protein in human food or animal feed.
19342247	Triazolopyrimidine-2-sulfonamide belongs to a herbicide group called acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibitors. With the aim to discover new triazolopyrimidine sulfonanilide compounds with high herbicidal activity and faster degradation rate in soil, the methyl group of Flumetsulam (FS) was modified into a methoxy group to produce a new herbicidal compound, N-2,6-difluorophenyl-5-methoxy-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine-2-sulfonamide (experimental code: Y6610). The enzymatic kinetic results indicated that compound Y6610 and FS have k(i) values of 3.31x10(-6) M and 3.60x10(-7) M against Arabidopsis thaliana AHAS, respectively. The 10-fold lower enzyme-inhibiting activity of Y6610 was explained rationally by further computational simulations and binding free energy calculations. In addition, compound Y6610 was found to display the same level in vivo post-emergent herbicidal activity as FS against some broad-leaf weeds and good safety to rice, maize, and wheat at the dosages of 75-300 gai/ha. Further determination of the half-lives in soil revealed that the half-life in soil of Y6610 is 3.9 days shorter than that of FS. The experimental results herein showed that compound Y6610 could be regarded as a new potential acetohydroxyacid synthase-inhibiting herbicide candidate for further study.
19343917	A longitudinal entomological study was carried out from January to June 2007 in the rice-growing area of Tiassaékro, a village located in the forest, South of Côte d'Ivoire. The study was based on samples of mosquitoes caught on human volunteers indoors and outdoors. During the 6 months of the study 29481 female mosquitoes were caught. The average biting rate was 272.9 bites per man per night (b/m/n). An. gambiae was the most predominant with 79.1% of mosquitoes caught. The average biting rate of An. gambiae was of 216 b/m/n. The biting activity of this species was noticed between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. The estimated average sporozoite index was 0.32% (n = 3423 dissected). The inoculation rate was 0.69 ib/m/n with the highest rate (1.99 ib//n) recorded in April. The entomological parameters of the transmission are influenced by the different stages of rice growing.
19343947	Bacillus cereus is a spore-forming foodborne pathogen responsible for diarrheal and emetic types of food poisoning. Intoxication is caused by various enterotoxins or by emetic toxin. Because of its widespread presence and the ability to form heat-stable endospores in a relatively short time, B. cereus has been difficult to control. In this study, 21 rice and 36 Sunsik (a mixture of powdered raw grains) samples were examined for the prevalence of B. cereus. A multiplex PCR assay was used to evaluate the distribution of 10 different toxigenicity-related genes among 1,082 B. cereus strains isolated from dried red peppers (919 isolates), rice (98 isolates), and Sunsik (65 isolates). The results suggest that (i) the examined foods were free of the emetic toxin but not free of enterotoxins and (ii) the distribution of enterotoxigenic genes was significantly different among the B. cereus isolates from various sources.
19343952	Incidence and properties of Bacillus cereus strains naturally present in cereals were evaluated by phenotypic characterization, antibiotic susceptibility testing, and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. Of 293 cereal samples tested, 73 (25%) contained B. cereus strains. Incidence of B. cereus isolates varied with respect to sample; they were found in 15 (37%) of 83 brown rice samples, 23 (37%) of 63 glutinous rice samples, 16 (21%) of 76 barley samples, and 19 (27%) of 71 Job's tears samples. All B. cereus isolates from cereals were positive for diarrheal toxin genes. The isolates were susceptible to most of the antibiotics tested, but they were highly resistant to ampicillin, cefepime, oxacillin, and penicillin. Of the genes assayed by the PCR technique, a high frequency of nheA (99%) and hblDC (84%) was found in the genomic DNA of cereal-associated isolates, whereas cytK was less common (55%). From the strains carrying the hblDC genes, 93% produced enterotoxin HBL. B. cereus isolates did not have significant genetic homology. The genetic diversity and toxic potential differ among the strains isolated from cereals. These results provide important information on toxin gene profiles of cereal-associated B. cereus for population studies.
19344531	Salinity is known to affect almost half of the world's irrigated lands, especially rice fields. Furthermore, cyanobacteria, one of the critical inhabitants of rice fields have been characterized at molecular level from many different geographical locations. This study, for the first time, has examined the molecular diversity of cyanobacteria inhabiting Indian rice fields which experience various levels of salinity. Ten physicochemical parameters were analyzed for samples collected from twenty experimental sites. Electrical conductivity data were used to classify the soils and to investigate relationship between soil salinity and cyanobacterial diversity. The cyanobacterial communities were analyzed using semi-nested 16S rRNA gene PCR and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Out of 51 DGGE bands selected for sequencing only 31 which showed difference in sequences were subjected to further analysis. BLAST analysis revealed highest similarity for twenty nine of the sequences with cyanobacteria, and the other two to plant plastids. Clusters obtained based on morphological and molecular attributes of cyanobacteria were correlated to soil salinity. Among six different clades, clades 1, 2, 4 and 6 contained cyanobacteria inhabiting normal or low saline (having EC < 4.0 ds m(-1)) to (high) saline soils (having EC > 4.0 ds m(-1)), however, clade 5 represented the cyanobacteria inhabiting only saline soils. Whilst, clade 3 contained cyanobacteria from normal soils. The presence of DGGE band corresponding to Aulosira strains were present in large number of soil indicating its wide distribution over a range of salinities, as were Nostoc, Anabaena, and Hapalosiphon although to a lesser extent in the sites studied. Low salinity favored the presence of heterocystous cyanobacteria, while very high salinity mainly supported the growth of non-heterocystous genera. High nitrogen content in the low salt soils is proposed to be a result of reduced ammonia volatilization compared to the high salt soils. Although many environmental factors could potentially determine the microbial community present in these multidimensional ecosystems, changes in the diversity of cyanobacteria in rice fields was correlated to salinity.
19344985	Soil pollution with potentially toxic elements (PTEs) resulting from rapid industrial development has caused major concerns. Selected PTEs and their accumulation and distribution in soils and rice (Oryza sativa) collected from Changshu, east China, were analyzed to evaluate the potential health risk to the local population. The soils were primarily contaminated with Hg, followed by Cu, Cd, Pb, and Zn. The concentrations of Pb, Hg, and Cd of 46, 32, and 1 rice samples exceeded their national maximum allowable levels in foods, respectively. Spatial distributions of total Cr, Cu, Pb, Zn, and Cd in soils shared similar geographical trends. The risk assessment of PTEs through rice consumption suggests that the concentrations of Cu, Pb, and Cd in some rice samples exceed their reference oral dose for adults and children. In general, there was no target hazard quotient value of any individual element that was greater than 1, but hazard index values for adults and children were 1.726 and 1.523, respectively.
19345396	The consumption of arsenic (As) contaminated rice is an important exposure route for humans in countries where rice cultivation employs As contaminated irrigation water. Arsenic toxicity and mobility are a function of its chemical-speciation. The distribution and identification of As in the rice plant are hence necessary to determine the uptake, transformation and potential risk posed by As contaminated rice. In this study we report on the distribution and chemical-speciation of As in rice (Oryza sativa Quest) by X-ray fluorescence (XRF) and X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) measurements of rice plants grown in As contaminated paddy water. Investigations of muXRF images from rice tissues found that As was present in all rice tissues, and its presence correlated with the presence of iron at the root surface and copper in the rice leaf. X-ray absorption near edge structure analysis of rice tissues identified that inorganic As was the predominant form of As in all rice tissues studied, and that arsenite became increasingly dominant in the aerial portion of the rice plant.
19345457	Cadmium (Cd) levels in paddy fields across Taiwan have increased due to emission from industry. To ensure the production of rice that meets food quality standards, predictive models or suitable soil tests are needed to evaluate the quality of soils to be used for rice cropping. Levels of Cd in soil and rice grains were measured in 19 paddy fields across the western plains in Taiwan. Cadmium levels in soil range from less than 0.1 mg kg(-1) to 30 mg kg(-1). Measured Cd levels in brown rice were predicted very well (R(2) > 0.8) based on Cd and Zinc in a 0.01 M CaCl(2) extract or a soil-plant transfer model using the reactive soil Cd content, pH, and cation exchange capacity. In contrast to current soil quality standards used in Taiwan, such models are effective in identifying soils where Cd in rice will exceed food quality standards.
19345687	NADPH thioredoxin reductase C (NTRC) is an interesting NTR with a thioredoxin (Trx) domain at the C-terminus, able to conjugate both activities for 2-Cys peroxiredoxin (Prx) reduction. NTRC is dimeric in the presence of NADPH and interacted with dimeric 2-Cys Prx through the Trx module by a mixed disulfide between Cys377 of NTRC and Cys61 of the 2-Cys Prx. NTRC variants of both NTR and Trx active sites were inactive, but 1:1 mixtures of both variants allowed partial recovery of activity suggesting inter-subunit transfer of electrons during catalysis. Based on these results we propose a model for the reaction mechanism of NTRC.
19346399	To understand the spatial distribution of hantavirus infections across landscapes and its influencing environment factors in Beijing, People's Republic of China, rodents captured in this region were examined for hantavirus by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. A total of 1,639 rodents were trapped at 86 randomly selected sites. The overall infection rate for hantavirus was 7.14% in the rodents. Multivariate logistic regression analysis indicated that the natural infection rates for hantavirus in rodents were significantly associated with rice agriculture (odds ratio [OR] = 2.88, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.27-30.70), orchards (OR = 1.12, 95% CI = 1.02-5.96), and moderate elevation (OR = 9.83, 95% CI = 2.22-43.55). A risk map was constructed on the basis of these significant factors to predict extension and transmission of infection with hantavirus in this region.
19346441	Enhancement of the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway in food crops benefits human health and adds commercial value of natural food colorants. However, predictable metabolic engineering or breeding is limited by the incomplete understanding of endogenous pathway regulation, including rate-controlling steps and timing of expression in carotenogenic tissues. The grass family (Poaceae) contains major crop staples, including maize (Zea mays), wheat (Triticum aestivum), rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and millet (Pennisetum glaucum). Maize carotenogenesis was investigated using a novel approach to discover genes encoding limiting biosynthetic steps in the nutritionally targeted seed endosperm. A combination of bioinformatics and cloning were first used to identify and map gene families encoding enzymes in maize and other grasses. These enzymes represented upstream pathways for isopentenyl diphosphate and geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthesis and the downstream carotenoid biosynthetic pathway, including conversion to abscisic acid. A maize germplasm collection was used for statistical testing of the correlation between carotenoid content and candidate gene transcript levels. Multiple pathway bottlenecks for isoprenoid biosynthesis and carotenoid biosynthesis were discovered in specific temporal windows of endosperm development. Transcript levels of paralogs encoding isoprenoid isopentenyl diphosphate and geranylgeranyl diphosphate-producing enzymes, DXS3, DXR, HDR, and GGPPS1, were found to positively correlate with endosperm carotenoid content. For carotenoid pathway enzymes, transcript levels for CrtISO inversely correlated with seed carotenoid content, as compared with positive correlation of PSY1 transcripts. Since zeaxanthin epoxidase (ZEP) depletes the carotenoid pool in subsequent conversion to abscisic acid, ZEP transcripts were examined. Carotenoid accumulation was found to be inversely associated with ZEP1 and ZEP2 transcript levels. Extension of the maize results using phylogenetic analysis identified orthologs in other grass species that may serve as potential metabolic engineering targets.
19346463
19346465	Axillary meristem (AM) formation is an important determinant of plant architecture. In rice (Oryza sativa), LAX PANICLE1 (LAX1) function is required for the generation of AM throughout the plant's lifespan. Here, we show a close relationship between AM initiation and leaf development; specifically, the plastochron 4 (P4) stage of leaf development is crucial for the proliferation of meristematic cells. Coincident with this, LAX1 expression starts in the axils of leaves at P4 stage. LAX1 mRNA accumulates in two to three layers of cells in the boundary region between the initiating AM and the shoot apical meristem. In lax1 mutants, the proliferation of meristematic cells is initiated but fails to progress into the formation of AM. The difference in sites of LAX1 mRNA expression and its action suggests non-cell-autonomous characteristics of LAX1 function. We found that LAX1 protein is trafficked to AM in a stage- and direction-specific manner. Furthermore, we present evidence that LAX1 protein movement is required for the full function of LAX1. Thus, we propose that LAX1 protein accumulates transiently in the initiating AM at P4 stage by a strict regulation of mRNA expression and a subsequent control of protein trafficking. This two-step regulation is crucial to the establishment of the new AM.
19347660	The use of model or reference species has played a major role in furthering detailed understanding of mechanisms and processes in the plant kingdom over the past 25 years. Species which have been adopted as models for dicotyledons and monocotyledons include arabidopsis and rice and more recently brachy-podium,Such models are diploids, have few and small chromosomes, well developed genetics, rapid life cycles, are easily transformed and have extensive sets of technical resources and databases curated by international resource centres. The study of crop genomics today is deeply rooted in earlier studies on model species. Genomes of model species share reasonable genetic synteny with key crop plants which facilitates the discovery of genes and association of genes with phenotypes. While some mechanisms and processes are conserved across the plant kingdom and so can be revealed by studies on any model species,others have diverged during evolution and so are revealed by studying only a closely related model species.Examples of processes that are conserved across the plant kingdom and others that have diverged and therefore need to be understood by studying a more closely related model species are described.
19349164	An enhanced inhibitor-tolerant strain of Pichia stipitis was successfully developed through adaptation to acid-treated rice straw hydrolysate. The ethanol production obtained by fermentation of NaOH-neutralized hydrolysate without detoxification using the adapted P. stipitis was comparable to fermentation of overliming-detoxified hydrolysate. The ethanol yield using the adapted P. stipitis with both types of hydrolysate at pH 5.0 achieved 0.45 g(p) g(s)(-1), which is equivalent to 87% of the maximum possible ethanol conversion. Furthermore, the newly adapted P. stipitis demonstrated significantly enhanced tolerance to sulfate and furfural despite the fact that both inhibitors had not been removed from the hydrolysate by NaOH neutralization. Finally, the ethanol conversion could be maintained at 60% and above when the neutralized hydrolysate contained 3.0% sulfate and 1.3gL(-1) furfural.
19350874	Karen Davis is president of The Commonwealth Fund, a national philanthropy engaged in independent research on health and social policy issues. Dr. Davis is a nationally recognized economist, with a distinguished career in public policy and research. Before joining the Fund, she served as chairman of the Department of Health Policy and Management at The Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, where she also held an appointment as professor of economics. She served as deputy assistant secretary for health policy in the Department of Health and Human Services from 1977 to 1980, and was the first woman to head a U.S. Public Health Service agency. Before her government career, Ms. Davis was a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, DC; a visiting lecturer at Harvard University; and an assistant professor of economics at Rice University. A native of Oklahoma, she received her PhD in economics from Rice University, which recognized her achievements with a Distinguished Alumna Award in 1991. Ms. Davis is the recipient of the 2000 Baxter-Allegiance Foundation Prize for Health Services Research. In the spring of 2001, Ms. Davis received an honorary doctorate in human letters from John Hopkins University. In 2006, she was selected for the Academy Health Distinguished Investigator Award for significant and lasting contributions to the field of health services research in addition to the Picker Award for Excellence in the Advancement of Patient Centered Care. Ms. Davis has published a number of significant books, monographs, and articles on health and social policy issues, including the landmark books HealthCare Cost Containment, Medicare Policy, National Health Insurance: Benefits, Costs, and Consequences, and Health and the War on Poverty. She serves on the Board of Visitors of Columbia University, School of Nursing, and is on the Board of Directors of the Geisinger Health System. She was elected to the Institute of Medicine (IOM) in 1975; has served two terms on the IOM governing Council (1986-90 and 1997-2000); was a member of the IOM Committee on Redesigning Health Insurance Benefits, Payment and Performance Improvement Programs; and was awarded the Adam Yarmolinsky medal in 2007 for her contributions to the mission of the Institute of Medicine. She is a past president of the Academy Health (formerly AHSRHP) and an Academy Health distinguished fellow, a member of the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, and a former member of the Agency for Healthcare Quality and Research National Advisory Committee. She also serves on the Panel of Health Advisors for the Congressional Budget Office.
19350884
19350943	An extensive data set of total arsenic analysis for 901 polished (white) grain samples, originating from 10 countries from 4 continents, was compiled. The samples represented the baseline (i.e., notspecifically collected from arsenic contaminated areas), and all were for market sale in major conurbations. Median total arsenic contents of rice varied 7-fold, with Egypt (0.04 mg/kg) and India (0.07 mg/kg) having the lowest arsenic content while the U.S. (0.25 mg/kg) and France (0.28 mg/kg) had the highest content. Global distribution of total arsenic in rice was modeled by weighting each country's arsenic distribution by that country's contribution to global production. A subset of 63 samples from Bangladesh, China, India, Italy, and the U.S. was analyzed for arsenic species. The relationship between inorganic arsenic contentversus total arsenic contentsignificantly differed among countries, with Bangladesh and India having the steepest slope in linear regression, and the U.S. having the shallowest slope. Using country-specific rice consumption data, daily intake of inorganic arsenic was estimated and the associated internal cancer risk was calculated using the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) cancer slope. Median excess internal cancer risks posed by inorganic arsenic ranged 30-fold for the 5 countries examined, being 0.7 per 10,000 for Italians to 22 per 10,000 for Bangladeshis, when a 60 kg person was considered.
19350995	To survey fumonisins B1 (FB1) and B2 (FB2) in agricultural products consumed in South Korea and provide an exposure assessment, ground samples were extracted (80% MeOH), filtered (0.2 microm), and cleaned up. After evaporation, dry residues were reconstituted in 50% MeOH, and a 50-micro1 aliquot of this sample was mixed with 200 micro1 of o-phthaldialdehyde for derivatization. The derivatives were analyzed with a high-performance liquid chromatography system equipped with a fluorescence detector. For validation of the detection procedure, linearity, accuracy, precision, detection limit, and quantification limit were determined. The validated detection method was then used to survey fumonisins in white rice, brown rice, barley, barley tea, beer, wheat flour, millet, dried corn, corn flour, corn tea, canned corn, popcorn, and breakfast cereal. Retention times for FB1 and FB2 standards were 7 and 18 min, respectively. Linearity (R2 = 0.99995 to 0.99998), accuracy (81.47 to 108.83%), precision (2.35 to 5.77), detection limit (25 ng/g or ng/ml), and quantification limit (37 ng/g or ng/ml) indicated that this procedure is capable of quantifying fumonisins in agricultural products. Only FB1-positive samples (5.12%, three dried corn samples and five corn flour samples) were found at 90.89 to 439.67 ng/g. According the survey results, an estimated daily intake of FB1 and FB2 in Korea was 0.087 ng/kg of body weight per day. These results indicate that continuous monitoring of these mycotoxins is necessary to establish appropriate risk assessment, and the maximum tolerable daily intake of fumonisins in Korea is lower than the 2 microg/kg set by the Joint Food and Agriculture Organization-World Health Organization Expert Committee.
19351418	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenously expressed small RNAs with a length of about 21 nt. MiRNAs silence their target genes at the post-transcriptional level. In plants, miRNAs play various developmental and physiological roles by cleavaging mRNAs predominantly. Drought and high salinity are the most severe environmental abiotic stresses and cause crop losses all over the world. In this study, we identified miR-169g and miR-169n (o) as high salinity-responsive miRNAs in rice. MiR-169n and miR169o were in a miRNA cluster with a distance of 3707 base pairs (bp). The high degree of conservation and close phylogenic distance of pre-miR-169n and pre-miR-169o indicated that they were derived from a very recent tandem duplication evolutionary event. The existence of a cis-acting abscisic acid responsive element (ABRE) in the upstream region of miR-169n (o) suggested that miR-169n (o) may be regulated by ABA. In our previous study, we found that miR-169g was induced by the osmotic stress caused by drought via a dehydration-responsive element (DRE). Thus, our data showed that there were both overlapping and distinct responses of the miR-169 family to drought and salt stresses. We also showed that these miR-169 members selectively cleaved one of the NF-YA genes, Os03g29760, which is a CCAAT-box binding transcription factor and participates in transcriptional regulation of large number genes. Finally, we found one or more ath-miR-169 member that was also induced by high salinity. We identified members of the miR-169 family as salt-induced miRNAs and analyzed their evolution, gene organization, expression, transcriptional regulation motif and target gene. Our data also indicated that the salt-induction of some miR-169 members was a general property in plants.
19352738	Genetic variation in protoplast-derived rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants was characterized using first and second generation selfed progenies. A total of 133 regenerated plants were obtained from ten protoplasts of the japonica rice cultivar Nipponbare. Sixty two regenerated plants which set enough seeds for the subsequent field tests at the next generation and were derived from five protoplasts were selected, and their selfed seeds were used as the first selfed-seed progeny (Pt(1) generation). Fifteen plants were selected from each of the 15 Pt(1) lines, and their selfed seeds were used for tests at the Pt(2) generation. Thirty seven Pt(1) lines (60%) segregated plants with detrimental mutant characters of yellowgreen phenotype, dwarf stature, dense and short panicle, or low seed fertility. According to the segregation patterns in the lines having mutated plants among those originated from the same protoplasts, the stages of mutation induction were estimated. Additionally, five quantitative traits were changed in almost all Pt(1) and Pt(2) lines. Varied quantitative traits of heading date, number of spikelets per panicle, and seed fertility, were in a heterozygous state. However, culm and panicle lengths showed high uniformity, whereas reduced culm and panicle lengths were caused by mutational changes in polygenes and/or multiple genes.
19352741	The cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) of wild-abortive (WA) cytoplasm has been widely used for breeding hybrid rice. Two restorer genes for the CMS have been found by traditional genetic analysis. To tag the restorer genes we used a set of near-isogenic lines (NILs) of Zhenshan 97 carrying different genotypes for fertility restoration from IR24, to perform RAPD analysis. From the survey of 720 random primers, six RAPD markers were identified to be associated with Rf-3. Three of these OPK05-800, OPU10-1100 and OPW01-350, were mapped on chromosome 1. Two F(2) populations from the crosses between Zhenshan 97 A and a near-isogenic restorer line ZSR21 and between Zhenshan 97 A and IR24 were used for mapping Rf-3. The three RAPD markers and three RFLP markers, RG532, RG140 and RG458, were found to be closely linked to Rf-3 in the two F(2) populations. The same location of Rf-3 was also found in a BC(1) population from the cross of IR58025 A//IR36/IR58025 B. At the RG532 locus, different alleles were found between two CMS lines, Zhenshan 97 A and IR58025 A, and between two restorer lines, IR24 and IR36. The use of these molecular markers closely linked to Rf-3 in facilitating the development of hybrid rice is discussed.
19352742	The indica, japonica and intermediary types of de-differentiated microspores from indica-japonica F(1) hybrids were identified with 11 subspecies-differentiating RELP probes in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The results showed that the distribution of indica, japonica and intermediary types of de-differentiated microspores could be easily detected in a simple and quick way using the RFLP method. Moreover, the microspores from the same F(1) hybrid but inoculated onto different media, or microspores from different F(1) hybrids when inoculated onto the same medium, often displayed distinctive distribution curves of de-differentiated microspores types, indicating that the media employed in this experiment had high selectivity for the de-differentiation of certain types of microspores. The application of the RELP method to de-differentiated microspore identification is of great theoretical and practical significance in rice doubled-haploid breeding.
19352746	Microsatellites consisting of AT repeats are highly polymorphic in rice genomes and can be used to distinguish between even closely related japonica cultivars in Japan. Polymorphisms of 20 microsatellite loci were determined using 59 japonica cultivars, including both domestic and modern Japanese cultivars. Although the polymorphisms of these 20 microsatellite loci indicated that the Japanese cultivars were genetically quite similar, microsatellites consisting of AT repeats showed high gene diversity even among such closely related cultivars. Combinations of these hypervariable microsatellites can be employed to classify individual cultivars, since the microsatellites were stable within each cultivar. An identification system based on these highly polymorphic microsatellites could be used to maintain the purity of rice seeds by eliminating contamination. A parentage diagnosis using 17 polymorphic microsatellite loci clearly demonstrated that plants which carried desired chromosome regions had been selected in breeding programs. Thus, these hypervariable microsatellites consisting of AT repeats should promote the selection of plants which carry desired chromosomes from genetically similar parents. Backcrossing could also help to eliminate unnecessary chromosome regions with microsatellite polymorphisms at an early stage in breeding programs.
19353748	Heat stress transcription factors (Hsfs) are the central regulators of defense response to heat stress. We identified a total of 25 rice Hsf genes by genome-wide analysis of rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome, including the subspecies of O. japonica and O. indica. Proteins encoded by OsHsfs were divided into three classes according to their structures. Digital Northern analysis showed that OsHsfs were expressed constitutively. The expressions of these OsHsfs in response to heat stress and oxidative stress differed among the members of the gene family. Promoter analysis identified a number of stress-related cis-elements in the promoter regions of these OsHsfs. No significant correlation, however, was found between the heat-shock responses of genes and their cis-elements. Overall, our results provide a foundation for future research of OsHsfs function.
19353883	To understand how soil texture and water content affect the mineralization of organic C in paddy soil, 3 selected soils (sandy loam, clay loam, and silty clay) were incubated (25 degrees C) with 14 C-labelled rice straw (1.0 g x kg(-1)) at water content varied from 45% to 105% of water holding capacity (WHC). Data indicated that, in the sandy loam and clay loam, the mineralization rate of 14 C-labelled rice straw reached the maximum at 75% WHC, as 53% and 58% of the straw C mineralized in the incubation period of 160 d, whereas in the silty clay, it increased gradually (from 41.8% to 49.0%) as water content increased up to 105% WHC. For all of the three soils, the mineralization rate of soil native organic C reached the maximum at 75% WHC, with 5.8% of the organic C mineralized in the same period for the sandy loam, and 8.0% and 4.8% for the clay loam and silty clay, respectively. As water content increased further, the mineralization rate of native organic C in the three soils significantly declined. The mineralization rate of added rice straw and native organic C in all the three soils, was well fitted with a conic curve. These results suggest that water-logging can decrease the mineralization of organic C in paddy soils.
19356919	Genetic engineering is being applied to eliminate or substantially reduce plant-derived substances that can be harmful to human health in otherwise nutritious foods. Post-transcriptional gene silencing, most recently via RNA interference, has been used in efforts to remove allergens from rice, soybean, apple, tomato, and peanut. RNA silencing has the potential to simultaneously alter expression of all members of a multi-gene family in a tissue-specific manner with little collateral change in the plant. Similarly, RNA silencing, as well as the overexpression of a beneficial gene, have been used in transgenic cassava to reduce toxic cyanogens. These studies are illustrative of the future application of biotechnology toward production of foods that are of direct value to the consumer.
19357089	Biotrophic invasive hyphae (IH) of the blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae secrete effectors to alter host defenses and cellular processes as they successively invade living rice (Oryza sativa) cells. However, few blast effectors have been identified. Indeed, understanding fungal and rice genes contributing to biotrophic invasion has been difficult because so few plant cells have encountered IH at the earliest infection stages. We developed a robust procedure for isolating infected-rice sheath RNAs in which approximately 20% of the RNA originated from IH in first-invaded cells. We analyzed these IH RNAs relative to control mycelial RNAs using M. oryzae oligoarrays. With a 10-fold differential expression threshold, we identified known effector PWL2 and 58 candidate effectors. Four of these candidates were confirmed to be fungal biotrophy-associated secreted (BAS) proteins. Fluorescently labeled BAS proteins were secreted into rice cells in distinct patterns in compatible, but not in incompatible, interactions. BAS1 and BAS2 proteins preferentially accumulated in biotrophic interfacial complexes along with known avirulence effectors, BAS3 showed additional localization near cell wall crossing points, and BAS4 uniformly outlined growing IH. Analysis of the same infected-tissue RNAs with rice oligoarrays identified putative effector-induced rice susceptibility genes, which are highly enriched for sensor-transduction components rather than typically identified defense response genes.
19357984	To identify minimal effective promoters for driving abiotic stress-inducible transgene expression in rice, we selected promoter elements of three stress-responsive genes, viz. rab16A coding for dehydrin, OsABA2 coding for zeaxanthin epoxidase, and a gene coding for a hypothetical protein (HP1) based on the presence of ABA-, salt- and drought-responsive cis-acting elements. These were translationally fused to the gusA reporter gene and introduced into rice to study their effect on heterologous gene expression. The OsABA2 promoter was found to be the most effective and desirable promoter among the three in terms of driving a low constitutive transgene expression under normal conditions and high induction in response to ABA, salt and drought stress, the highest being a 12-fold induction in response to ABA. The rab16A and HP1 promoters resulted in high levels of constitutive expression. While induction of GUS activity was generally two- to threefold for all the treatments in roots for both the promoters, induction in leaves was generally insignificant, the exceptions being rab16A in response to continuous salt stress and HP1 in response to water deficit. It was also observed that the three promoters, in general, resulted in lower constitutive expression, but higher induction in roots as compared to leaves.
19358722	Alternative splicing (AS) is a widespread phenomenon in higher eukaryotes but the extent to which it leads to functional protein isoforms and to proteome expansion at large is still a matter of debate. In contrast to animal species, for which AS has been studied extensively at the protein and functional level, protein-centered studies of AS in plant species are scarce. Here we investigate the functional impact of AS in dicot and monocot plant species using a comparative approach. Detailed comparison of AS events in alternative spliced orthologs from the dicot Arabidopsis thaliana and the monocot Oryza sativa (rice) revealed that the vast majority of AS events in both species do not result from functional conservation. Transcript isoforms that are putative targets for the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway are as likely to contain conserved AS events as isoforms that are translated into proteins. Similar results were obtained when the same comparison was performed between the two more closely related monocot species rice and Zea mays (maize).Genome-wide computational analysis of functional protein domains encoded in alternatively and constitutively spliced genes revealed that only the RNA recognition motif (RRM) is overrepresented in alternatively spliced genes in all species analyzed. In contrast, three domain types were overrepresented in constitutively spliced genes. AS events were found to be less frequent within than outside predicted protein domains and no domain type was found to be enriched with AS introns. Analysis of AS events that result in the removal of complete protein domains revealed that only a small number of domain types is spliced-out in all species analyzed. Finally, in a substantial fraction of cases where a domain is completely removed, this domain appeared to be a unit of a tandem repeat. The results from the ortholog comparisons suggest that the ability of a gene to produce more than one functional protein through AS does not persist during evolution. Cross-species comparison of the results of the protein-domain oriented analyses indicates little correspondence between the analyzed species. Based on the premise that functional genetic features are most likely to be conserved during evolution, we conclude that AS has only a limited role in functional expansion of the proteome in plants.
19358930	Although a large body of epidemiologic data accumulated in Western countries show that individuals with a higher socioeconomic position consume higher quality diets, information on such socioeconomic differences in the diets of non-Western populations, including Japanese, is absolutely lacking. This cross-sectional study examined the association of socioeconomic position with dietary intake in a group of pregnant Japanese women. Subjects were 1002 Japanese women during pregnancy. Socioeconomic position was assessed by education, occupation, and household income. Dietary intake was estimated using a validated, self-administered, comprehensive diet history questionnaire. Education was associated positively with intake of protein; total n-3 and marine-origin n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids; dietary fiber; cholesterol; potassium; calcium; magnesium; iron; vitamins A, D, E, and C; and folate 9 and inversely with that of carbohydrate. No associations were seen between education and intake of total fat; saturated, monounsaturated, and total and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids; alcohol; or sodium. Regarding food, higher education was associated with a higher intake of vegetables, fish and shellfish, and potatoes and lower intake of rice. Education was not associated with intake of bread, noodles, confectioneries and sugars, fats and oils, pulses and nuts, meat, eggs, dairy products, or fruit. For occupation, housewives had a higher intake of dietary fiber, magnesium, iron, vitamin A, folate, and pulses and nuts than working women. Household income was not associated with any nutrient or food examined. In conclusion, education, but not occupation or household income, was positively associated with favorable dietary intake patterns in a group of pregnant Japanese women.
19359164	Effects of both pre-treatment and number of steps in KOH activation of raw rice straw (RS) on textural and adsorption properties of RS-derived activated carbons (ACs) were investigated. Three pre-treatment protocols were tested: mechanical, chemical by NaOH pulping, and a combination of both. Activation of RS-based materials was investigated, at a constant temperature of 800 degrees C, according to two ways: a 1-step simultaneous carbonisation-activation with KOH, and a 2-steps process: carbonisation followed by activation by KOH. 2-Steps KOH activation was more efficient in producing activated carbons with high surface areas and high methylene blue adsorption than 1-step KOH activation. Additionally, 2-steps KOH activation increased the yield of activated carbons having moderate ash content (8-14%). Surface areas as high as 1917 m(2)/g were obtained when the combined mechanical-chemical pre-treatment method and a 2-steps activation process were carried out.
19359285	Completion of the genome analysis followed by extensive comprehensive studies on a variety of genes and gene families of rice (Oryza sativa) resulted in rapid accumulation of information concerning the presence of many complex traits that are governed by a number of genes of distinct functions in this most important crop cultivated worldwide. The genetic and molecular biological dissection of many important rice phenotypes has contributed to our understanding of the complex nature of the genetic control with respect to these phenotypes. However, in spite of the considerable advances made in the field, details of genetic control remain largely unsolved, thereby hampering our exploitation of this useful information in the breeding of new rice cultivars. To further strengthen the field application of the genome science data of rice obtained so far, we need to develop more powerful genomics-assisted methods for rice breeding based on information derived from various quantitative trait loci (QTL) and related analyses. In this review, we describe recent progresses and outcomes in rice QTL analyses, problems associated with the application of the technology to rice breeding and their implications for the genetic study of other crops along with future perspectives of the relevant fields.
19361337	Ideally larval control activities should be targeted at sites that generate the most adult vectors, thereby reducing operational costs. Despite the plethora of potential mosquito breeding sites found in the floodplains of the Gambia River, about 150 km from its mouth, during the rainy season, only a small proportion are colonized by anophelines on any day. This study aimed to determine the characteristics of larval habitats most frequently and most densely populated by anopheline larvae and to estimate the numbers of adults produced in different habitats. A case-control design was used to identify characteristics of sites with or without mosquitoes. Sites were surveyed for their physical water properties and invertebrate fauna. The characteristics of 83 sites with anopheline larvae (cases) and 75 sites without (controls) were collected between June and November 2005. Weekly adult productivity was estimated with emergence traps in water-bodies commonly containing larvae. The presence of anopheline larvae was associated with high invertebrate diversity (Odds Ratio, OR 11.69, 95% CI 5.61-24.34, p < 0.001), the presence of emergent vegetation (OR 2.83, 95% CI 1.35-5.95, p = 0.006), and algae (at borderline significance; OR 1.87, 95% CI 0.96-3.618, p = 0.065). The density of larvae was reduced in sites that were larger than 100 m in perimeter (OR 0.151; 95% CI 0.060-0.381, p < 0.001), where water was tidal (OR 0.232; 95% CI 0.101-0.533, p = 0.001), vegetation shaded over 25% of the habitat (OR 0.352; 95% CI 0.136-0.911, p = 0.031) and water conductivity was above 2,000 muS/cm (OR 0.458; 95% CI 0.220-0.990, p = 0.048). Pools produced the highest numbers of Anopheles gambiae adults compared with rice fields, floodwater areas close to the edge of the floodplain or close to the river, and stream fringes. Pools were characterized by high water temperature and turbidity, low conductivity, increased presence of algae, and absence of tidal water. There are few breeding sites that produce a high number of adult vectors in the middle reaches of the river in The Gambia, whereas those with low productivity are larger in area and can be found throughout the rainy season. Even though risk factors could be identified for the presence and density of larvae and productivity of habitats, the results indicate that anti-larval interventions in this area of The Gambia cannot be targeted in space or time during the rainy season.
19362563	Ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI; EC 1.1.1.86) is an enzyme in the branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis pathway where it catalyzes the conversion of 2-acetolactate into (2R)-2,3-dihydroxy-3-isovalerate or the conversion of 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate into (2R,3R)-2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate. KARI catalyzes two reactions-alkyl migration and reduction-and requires Mg(2+) and NADPH for activity. To date, the only reported structures for a plant KARI are those of the spinach enzyme-Mn(2+)-(phospho)ADP ribose-(2R,3R)-2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate complex and the spinach KARI-Mg(2)(+)-NADPH-N-hydroxy-N-isopropyloxamate complex, where N-hydroxy-N-isopropyloxamate is a predicted transition-state analog. These studies demonstrated that the enzyme consists of two domains, N-domain and C-domain, with the active site at the interface of these domains. Here, we have determined the structures of the rice KARI-Mg(2+) and rice KARI-Mg(2)(+)-NADPH complexes to 1.55 A and 2.80 A resolutions, respectively. In comparing the structures of all the complexes, several differences are observed. Firstly, the N-domain is rotated up to 15 degrees relative to the C-domain, expanding the active site by up to 4 A. Secondly, an alpha-helix in the C-domain that includes residues V510-T519 and forms part of the active site moves by approximately 3.9 A upon binding of NADPH. Thirdly, the 15 C-terminal amino acid residues in the rice KARI-Mg(2+) complex are disordered. In the rice KARI-Mg(2)(+)-NADPH complex and the spinach KARI structures, many of the 15 residues bind to NADPH and the N-domain and cover the active site. Fourthly, the location of the metal ions within the active site can vary by up to 2.7 A. The new structures allow us to propose that an induced-fit mechanism operates to (i) allow substrate to enter the active site, (ii) close over the active site during catalysis, and (iii) open the active site to facilitate product release.
19363206	Rice coleoptiles, renowned for anoxia tolerance, were hypoxically pretreated, excised, 'healed', and then exposed to a combination of anoxia and pH 3.5. The putative acid load was confirmed by net effluxes of K(+) to the medium, with concurrent net decreases of H(+) in the medium, presumably mainly due to H(+) influx. Yet the coleoptiles survived the combination of anoxia and pH 3.5 for at least 90 h, and even for at least 40 h when the energy crisis, inherent to anoxia, had been aggravated by supplying the coleoptiles with 2.5 mM rather than 50 mM glucose. Even in the case of coleoptiles with 2.5 mM glucose, an accumulation ratio of 6 for Cl(-) was attained at 4 h after the start of re-aeration, implying plasma membrane integrity was either maintained during anoxia, or rapidly restored after a return to aerated conditions. Cytoplasmic pH and vacuolar pH were measured using in vivo (31)P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy with 50 mM glucose in the basal perfusion medium. After 60 h in anoxia, external pH was suddenly decreased from 6.5 to 3.5, but cytoplasmic pH only decreased from 7.35 to 7.2 during the first 2 h and then remained steady for the next 16 h. During the first 3 h at pH 3.5, vacuolar pH decreased from 5.7 to 5.25 and then stabilized. After 18 h at pH 3.5, the initial values of cytoplasmic pH and vacuolar pH were rapidly restored, both upon a return to pH 6.5 while maintaining anoxia and after subsequent return to aerated solution. Summing up, rice coleoptiles exposed to a combination of anoxia and pH 3.5 retained pH regulation and cellular compartmentation, demonstrating tolerance to anoxia even during the acid load imposed by exposure to pH 3.5.
19363683	Increasing evidence suggests that a gene family encoding proteins containing BURP domains have diverse functions in plants, but systematic characterization of this gene family have not been reported. In this study, 17 BURP family genes (OsBURP01-17) were identified and analyzed in rice (Oryza sativa L.). These genes have diverse exon-intron structures and distinct organization of putative motifs. Based on the phylogenetic analysis of BURP protein sequences from rice and other plant species, the BURP family was classified into seven subfamilies, including two subfamilies (BURP V and BURP VI) with members from rice only and one subfamily (BURP VII) with members from monocotyledons only. Two BURP gene clusters, belonging to BURP V and BURP VI, were located in the duplicated region on chromosome 5 and 6 of rice, respectively. Transcript level analysis of BURP genes of rice in various tissues and organs revealed different tempo-spatial expression patterns, suggesting that these genes may function at different stages of plant growth and development. Interestingly, all the genes of the BURP VII subfamily were predominantly expressed in flower organs. We also investigated the expression patterns of BURP genes of rice under different stress conditions. The results suggested that, except for two genes (OsBURP01 and OsBURP13), all other members were induced by at least one of the stresses including drought, salt, cold, and abscisic acid treatment. Two genes (OsBURP05 and OsBURP16) were responsive to all the stress treatments and most of the OsBURP genes were responsive to salt stress. Promoter sequence analysis revealed an over-abundance of stress-related cis-elements in the stress-responsive genes. The data presented here provide important clues for elucidating the functions of genes of this family.
19364112	High-yield uniform silver nanorices were synthesized by a facile polyol process without the introduction of shape-selected seeds. Nanorices exhibit two plasmon resonance peaks in the visible and near-infrared regions respectively due to their anisotropy. XRD patterns demonstrated the HCP phase coexists with the FCC phase in nanorices. The novel structure of nanorices was characterized by TEM study which shows that the intergrowth of FCC and a small amount of HCP phase, nanoscale FCC (111) twinning structure, and multimodulated structures formed by a complicated stacking sequence along the long axis direction. The correlation between morphology and microstructure is discussed.
19364378	At calving, many older cows fail to compensate the sudden demand of calcium by an adequate activation of intestinal absorption. This results in a variable degree of hypocalcaemia. Reducing intestinal availability of calcium during the close-up period can prevent milk fever. Fat-coated rice bran (FCRB) was investigated for its potential to reduce Ca availability in pre-calving cows. Fat-coated rice bran was incubated in situ to estimate ruminal degradation of dry matter and phytic acid. Also, seven dry multiparous dairy cows were used for a feeding trial in three periods of approximately 1 week each: P1: adaptation; P2: feeding of 2 kg of FCRB and P3: withdrawal of FCRB. Feed intake was recorded and daily urine samples were analysed for pH, Ca and creatinine. The bypass fraction of phytic acid (passage rate: 5%/h) was 30%. Fat-coated rice bran depressed dry matter intake in P2, resulting in a lower Ca intake. In P2 urine pH and calcium excretion were lower. Daily calcium excretion decreased after introduction of FCRB, peaked after withdrawal and dropped 2 days later. Changes in urinary Ca excretion by feeding FCRB indicate that FCRB affected Ca homeostasis in dry multiparous dairy cows.
19365757	Bacillus pumillus MTCC7615 has been identified as a potent isolate against Rhizocotonia solani, the fungal pathogen causing sheath blight in rice. The study aimed at probing the role of a 23kb size plasmid pJCP07 of Bacillus pumillus MTCC7615 in its fungal antagonism towards Rhizocotonia solani. Plasmid pJCP07 was found to be involved in production of a fungal antagonistic compound as demonstrated by plasmid curing and conjugational transfer experiments. Tn5 insertional studies further confirmed that the plasmid pJCP07 of Bacillus pumillus MTCC7615 carries some of the gene(s) involved in production of compound antagonistic to Rhizocotonia solani. The plasmid pJCP07 is thus a mobilizable medium-sized plasmid carrying genes responsible for antagonism of Bacillus pumillus MTCC7615 towards Rhizocotonia solani.
19366999	How plant gene expression respond to grazing defoliation is critical for plant re-growth, survival, and composition in the natural and dairy farming grassland environments. Rice, with genome sequence available, was used as a model plant to study grazing-induced pathway selections. When seedlings were 18 cm in height, the top 12 cm was removed by simulated grazing. The gene expression activities within 2 to 24 hours in the remaining aboveground tissues were profiled using the Affymetrix Rice GeneChips and RT-qPCR. The seedlings responded to grazing by immediately adjusting their global gene expression, e.g., enhancing anaerobic respiration, starch-to-sugar conversion, sucrose synthesis, and sugar transport. The results suggest that (1) remaining aboveground tissues used anaerobic respiration as an emergency measure for energy/substrates supply; (2) Sink tissues reduced its demand after 2 h; (3) Sucrose synthesis enhancement around the 24th hour is likely driven by shoot re-growth. In total, the expression activity of 466 genes, involved in signal transduction, miRNA regulation, cell wall modification, metabolism, hormone synthesis, and molecule transporters, had been significantly changed at least twofold. These genes and their biochemical pathways identified provide insights into how plants respond to grazing at the molecular physiology level.
19367567	Transgenic herbicide-resistant rice is needed to control weeds that have evolved herbicide resistance, as well as for the weedy (feral, red) rice problem, which has been exacerbated by shifting to direct seeding throughout the world-firstly in Europe and the Americas, and now in Asia, as well as in parts of Africa. Transplanting had been the major method of weedy rice control. Experience with imidazolinone-resistant rice shows that gene flow to weedy rice is rapid, negating the utility of the technology. Transgenic technologies are available that can contain herbicide resistance within the crop (cleistogamy, male sterility, targeting to chloroplast genome, etc.), but such technologies are leaky. Mitigation technologies tandemly couple (genetically link) the gene of choice (herbicide resistance) with mitigation genes that are neutral or good for the crop, but render hybrids with weedy rice and their offspring unfit to compete. Mitigation genes confer traits such as non-shattering, dwarfism, no secondary dormancy and herbicide sensitivity. It is proposed to use glyphosate and glufosinate resistances separately as genes of choice, and glufosinate, glyphosate and bentazone susceptibilities as mitigating genes, with a six-season rotation where each stage kills transgenic crop volunteers and transgenic crop x weed hybrids from the previous season.
19367696
19367730	This review is the continuation of three previously published articles [Jorrin JV, Maldonado AM, Castillejo MA. Plant proteome analysis: a 2006 update. Proteomics 2007; 7: 2947-2962; Rossignol M, Peltier JB, Mock HP, Matros A, Maldonado AM, Jorrin JV. Plant proteome analysis: a 2004-2006 update. Proteomics 2006; 6: 5529-5548; Canovas FM, Dumas-Gaudot E, Recorbet G, Jorrin J, Mock HP, Rossignol M. Plant proteome analysis. Proteomics 2004; 4: 285-298] and aims to update the contribution of Proteomics to plant research between 2007 and September 2008 by reviewing most of the papers, which number approximately 250, that appeared in the Plant Proteomics field during that period. Most of the papers published deal with the proteome of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa), and focus on profiling organs, tissues, cells or subcellular proteomes, and studying developmental processes and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses using a differential expression strategy. Although the platform based on 2-DE is still the most commonly used, the use of gel-free and second-generation Quantitative Proteomic techniques has increased. Proteomic data are beginning to be validated using complementary -omics or classical biochemical or cellular biology techniques. In addition, appropriate experimental design and statistical analysis are being carried out in accordance with the required Minimal Information about a Proteomic Experiment (MIAPE) standards. As a result, the coverage of the plant cell proteome and the plant biology knowledge is increasing. Compared to human and yeast systems, however, plant biology research has yet to exploit fully the potential of proteomics, in particular its applications to PTMs and Interactomics.
19367736	Up to the present, only one major allergen had been univocally identified by chemical analysis (N-terminal sequencing) in the salt-extractable (cytoplasmic) protein fraction of maize kernels (Zea mays): the lipid transfer protein (Pastorello et al., Allergy Clin. Immunol. 2000;106:744-751). In the present study, two-dimensional maps of kernel flour have been set up, the proteins transferred to nitrocellulose membranes and confronted with sera of various patients allergic to maize proteins. Via spot excision and Orbitrap mass analysis, the following new allergens have been identified: vicilin, globulin-2, 50 kDa gamma-zein, endo-chitinase, thioredoxin and trypsin inhibitor. Vicilin was found to be composed of a string of six spots, all of them allergenic; also globulin-2 was composed of a string of five spots, exhibiting equivalent allergenicity. The 50 kDa gamma-zein, found here in the maize flour soluble fraction, is identical to the 50 kDa allergen reported by Pasini et al. (Allergy 2002; 57:98-106), but present in the insoluble fraction and solubilized via -S-S- reducing agents. However, the form here described might be a truncated species, since it exhibits an apparent Mr, in SDS-PAGE, of ca. 35 kDa. The homology of three of them (vicilin, globulin-2 and thioredoxin) with other vegetable systems has been investigated via BLAST analysis, the ones with highest homology belonging to rice, wheat and barley. The present data add a non-negligible amount of previously unreported allergens to the scanty panorama of maize proteins.
19368163	Factors responsible for paddy soil arsenic accumulation in the tubewell irrigated systems of the Bengal Delta were investigated. Baseline (i.e., nonirrigated) and paddy soils were collected from 30 field systems across Bangladesh. For each field, soil sampled at dry season (Boro) harvest i.e., the crop cycle irrigated with tubewell water, was collected along a 90 m transect away from the tubewell irrigation source. Baseline soil arsenic levels ranged from 0.8 to 21. mg/kg, with lower values found on the Pliestocene Terrace around Gazipur (average, 1.6 +/- 0.2 mg/kg), and higher levels found in Holecene sediment tracts of Jessore and Faridpur (average, 6.6 +/- 1.0 mg/kg). Two independent approaches were used to assess the extent of arsenic build-up in irrigated paddy soils. First, arsenic build-up in paddy soil at the end of dry season production (irrigated - baseline soil arsenic) was regressed against number of years irrigated and tubewell arsenic concentration. Years of irrigation was not significant (P = 0.711), indicating no year-on-year arsenic build-up, whereas tubewell As concentration was significant (P = 0.008). The second approach was analysis of irrigated soils for 20 fields over 2 successive years. For nine of the fields there was a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in soil arsenic from year 1 to 2, one field had a significant increase, whereas there was no change for the remaining 10. Over the dry season irrigation cycle, soil arsenic built-up in soils at a rate dependent on irrigation tubewell water, 35* (tubewell water concentration in mg/kg, triple bond mg/L). Grain arsenic rises steeply at low soil/shoot arsenic levels, plateauing out at concentratations. Baseline soil arsenic at Faridpur sites corresponded to grain arsenic levels at the start of this saturation phase. Therefore, variation in baseline levels of soil arsenic leads to a large range in grain arsenic. Where sites have high baseline soil arsenic, further additional arsenic from irrigation water only leads to a gradual increase in grain arsenic concentration.
19369063	Non-isothermal thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) data of biomasses and pulps originating from non-wood and alternatives materials (i.e., Tagasaste or rice straw) have been fitted with refined models, which include autocatalytic kinetics. Data sets were obtained for different experimental conditions, such as variations of heating rate and atmosphere, i.e., inert (pyrolysis) versus oxidative atmosphere (combustion). Besides the access to classical kinetic parameters (pre-exponential factor, activation energy, and reaction order), the improved data analysis enabled the determination of the chemical composition of the samples (cellulose, hemicellulose, extractives, lignin). The latter compared very well with those obtained by conventional methods (chemical analysis, HPLC). Given the reduced environmental impact and rapidness of the method, potential applications for research related to new biomasses and industrial processes can be foreseen. The herein implemented method is based on the assumption that samples contain pseudo-components, which independently degrade, and that combustion is the combination of an initial volatilization process (similar to pyrolysis) and a subsequent char oxidation process. Further, it was found that for a reliable modeling of the volatilization stage, extractives should be considered as well, together with the classical pseudo-components: hemicellulose, cellulose and lignin. The char oxidation stage has been simulated as a sum of the oxidation of three char types, one for each main pseudo-component. Importantly, fitting of TGA curves under consideration of autocatalytic kinetics allows the determination of a consistent set of kinetic parameters at different heating rates and leads to significant suppression of the compensation effect. While autocatalysis (characterized by the nucleation order) is not very significant for pyrolysis of biomasses, it can reach high levels for combustion, especially when high heating rates are used. In cellulosic char oxidation a nucleation order larger than one was fitted. The autocatalysis level of the char oxidation can rapidly increase with small modifications of the heating rate (i.e. to pass from 5 to 10 degrees C/min). In this case, the classically applied nth-order kinetic is particularly insufficient to fit experimental data with the same set of the kinetic parameters.
19369274	Salinity is one of the major environmental factors limiting growth and productivity of rice plants. In this study, the effect of salt stress on phospholipid signaling responses in rice leaves was investigated. Leaf cuts were radiolabeled with 32P-orthophosphate and the lipids extracted and analyzed by thin-layer chromatography, autoradiography and phosphoimaging. Phospholipids were identified by co-migration of known standards. Results showed that 32P(i) was rapidly incorporated into the minor lipids, phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate (PIP2) and phosphatidic acid (PA) and, interestingly, also into the structural lipids phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and phosphatidylglycerol (PG), which normally label relatively slowly, like phosphatidylcholine (PC) and phosphatidylinositol (PI). Only very small amounts of PIP2 were found. However, in response to salt stress (NaCl), PIP2 levels rapidly (<30 min) increased up to 4-fold, in a time- and dose-dependent manner. PA and its phosphorylated product, diacylglycerolpyrophosphate (DGPP), also increased upon NaCl stress, while cardiolipin (CL) levels decreased. All other phospholipid levels remained unchanged. PA signaling can be generated via the combined action of phospholipase C (PLC) and diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) or directly via phospholipase D (PLD). The latter can be measured in vivo, using a transphosphatidylation assay. Interestingly, these measurements revealed that salt stress inhibited PLD activity, indicating that the salt stress-induced PA response was not due to PLD activity. Comparison of the 32P-lipid responses in salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive cultivars revealed no significant differences. Together these results show that salt stress rapidly activates several lipid responses in rice leaves but that these responses do not explain the difference in salt tolerance between sensitive and tolerant cultivars.
19369275	We have developed a highly sensitive and high-throughput method for the simultaneous analysis of 43 molecular species of cytokinins, auxins, ABA and gibberellins. This method consists of an automatic liquid handling system for solid phase extraction and ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) coupled with a tandem quadrupole mass spectrometer (qMS/MS) equipped with an electrospray interface (ESI; UPLC-ESI-qMS/MS). In order to improve the detection limit of negatively charged compounds, such as gibberellins, we chemically derivatized fractions containing auxin, ABA and gibberellins with bromocholine that has a quaternary ammonium functional group. This modification, that we call 'MS-probe', makes these hormone derivatives have a positive ion charge and permits all compounds to be measured in the positive ion mode with UPLC-ESI-qMS/MS in a single run. Consequently, quantification limits of gibberellins increased up to 50-fold. Our current method needs <100 mg (FW) of plant tissues to determine phytohormone profiles and enables us to analyze >180 plant samples simultaneously. Application of this method to plant hormone profiling enabled us to draw organ distribution maps of hormone species in rice and also to identify interactions among the four major hormones in the rice gibberellin signaling mutants, gid1-3, gid2-1 and slr1. Combining the results of hormone profiling data with transcriptome data in the gibberellin signaling mutants allows us to analyze relationships between changes in gene expression and hormone metabolism.
19369372	Genetically engineered "Golden Rice" contains up to 35 microg beta-carotene per gram of rice. It is important to determine the vitamin A equivalency of Golden Rice beta-carotene to project the potential effect of this biofortified grain in rice-consuming populations that commonly exhibit low vitamin A status. The objective was to determine the vitamin A value of intrinsically labeled dietary Golden Rice in humans. Golden Rice plants were grown hydroponically with heavy water (deuterium oxide) to generate deuterium-labeled [2H]beta-carotene in the rice grains. Golden Rice servings of 65-98 g (130-200 g cooked rice) containing 0.99-1.53 mg beta-carotene were fed to 5 healthy adult volunteers (3 women and 2 men) with 10 g butter. A reference dose of [13C10]retinyl acetate (0.4-1.0 mg) in oil was given to each volunteer 1 wk before ingestion of the Golden Rice dose. Blood samples were collected over 36 d. Our results showed that the mean (+/-SD) area under the curve for the total serum response to [2H]retinol was 39.9 +/- 20.7 microg x d after the Golden Rice dose. Compared with that of the [13C10]retinyl acetate reference dose (84.7 +/- 34.6 microg x d), Golden Rice beta-carotene provided 0.24-0.94 mg retinol. Thus, the conversion factor of Golden Rice beta-carotene to retinol is 3.8 +/- 1.7 to 1 with a range of 1.9-6.4 to 1 by weight, or 2.0 +/- 0.9 to 1 with a range of 1.0-3.4 to 1 by moles. Beta-carotene derived from Golden Rice is effectively converted to vitamin A in humans. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00680355.
19370321	Phytic acid (PA, myo-inositol 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexakisphosphate) is important to the nutritional quality of cereal and legume seeds. PA and its salts with micronutrient cations, such as iron and zinc, cannot be digested by humans and non-ruminant animals, and hence may affect food/feed nutritional value and cause P pollution of groundwater from animal waste. We previously developed a set of low phytic acid (LPA) rice mutant lines with the aim of increasing the nutritional quality of rice. Two of these lines, Os-lpa-XS110-2 (homozygous non-lethal) Os-lpa-XS110-3 (homozygous lethal), contain two mutant alleles of a LPA gene (hereafter XS-lpa2-1 and XS-lpa2-2, respectively). In this study, we mapped the XS-lpa2-1 gene to a region on chromosome 3 between microsatellite markers RM14360 and RM1332, where the rice orthologue (OsMRP5) of the maize lpa1 gene is located. Sequence analysis of the OsMRP5 gene revealed a single base pair change (C/G-T/A transition) in the sixth exon of XS-lpa2-1 and a 5-bp deletion in the first exon of XS-lpa2-2. OsMRP5 is expressed in both vegetative tissues and developing seeds, and the two mutations do not change the level of RNA transcription. A T-DNA insertion line, 4A-02500, in which OsMRP5 was disrupted, also showed the same high inorganic phosphorus phenotype as Os-lpa-XS110-3 and appeared to be homozygous lethal. PA is significantly reduced in Os-lpa-XS110-2 (~20%) and in 4A-02500 (~90%) seeds compared with their wild type lines, and no PA was detected in Os-lpa-XS110-3 using HPLC analysis. This evidence indicates that the OsMRP5 gene plays an important role in PA metabolism in rice seeds.
19370638	Acute diarrhoea is one of the principal causes of morbidity and mortality among children in low-income countries. Glucose-based ORS helps replace fluid and prevent further dehydration from acute diarrhoea. Since 2004, the World Health Organization has recommended the osmolarity < 270 mOsm/L (ORS </= 270) over the > 310 mOsm/L formulation (ORS >/= 310). Glucose polymer-based ORS (eg prepared using rice or wheat) slowly releases glucose and may be superior. To compare polymer-based ORS with glucose-based ORS for treating acute watery diarrhoea. In September 2008, we searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register, CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2008, Issue 3), MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, and mRCT. We also contacted researchers, organizations, and pharmaceutical companies, and searched reference lists. Randomized controlled trials of people with acute watery diarrhoea (cholera and non-cholera associated) comparing polymer-based and glucose-based ORS (with identical electrolyte contents). Two authors independently assessed the search results and risk of bias, and extracted data. In multiple treatment arms with two or more treatment groups, we combined outcomes as appropriate and compared collectively with the control group. Thirty-four trials involving 4214 participants met the inclusion criteria: 27 in children, five in adults and two in both. Twelve trials used adequate methods to conceal allocation. Most compared polymer-based ORS with ORS >/= 310. There were fewer unscheduled intravenous infusions in the polymer-based ORS group compared with glucose-based ORS (ORS >/= 310 and </= 270 groups combined) (RR 0.75, 95% CI 0.59 to 0.95; 2235 participants, 19 trials). Adults positive for Vibrio cholerae had a shorter duration of diarrhoea with polymer-based ORS than with ORS </= 270 (MD -7.11 hours, SD -11.91 to -2.32; 228 participants, 4 trials). Wheat-based ORS resulted in lower total stool output in the first 24 hours compared with ORS </= 270 (MD -119.85 g/kg, SD -114.73 to -124.97; 129 participants, 2 trials). Adverse effects were similar for polymer-based ORS and glucose-based ORS. Polymer-based ORS shows some advantages compared to ORS >/= 310 for treating all-cause diarrhoea, and in diarrhoea caused by cholera. Comparisons favoured the polymer-based ORS over ORS </= 270, but the analysis was underpowered. If specialists consider a potential role for polymer-based ORS, further trials against the current standard (ORS </= 270) will be required.
19370872	Three polyacetylenes, 8-(beta-D-glucopyranosyloxy)-3-hydroxy-1,9,14-pentadecatriene-4,6-diyne, termed "helian"(1), 8-acetoxy-3-hydroxy-1,9,14-pentadecatriene-4,6-diyne (2), and 3,8-dihydroxy-1,9,14-pentadecatriene-4,6-diyne (3) were isolated from seedlings of sunflower, Helianthus annuus L. cv Russia. Compounds 1 and 2, having a beta-glucose and an acetoxy group at C-8, respectively, showed a weak effect on the growth of roots and shoots of rice (Oryza sativa L.) and cress (Lepidium sativum L.), while compound 3, having a free hydroxyl group at C-8, exhibited a growth promoting effect on the roots and shoots of rice and cress.
19371407	Use of insecticide-treated nets (ITNs) continues to offer potential strategy for malaria prevention in endemic areas. However their effectiveness, sustainability and massive scale up remain a factor of socio-economic and cultural variables of the local community which are indispensable during design and implementation stages. An ethnographic household survey was conducted in four study villages which were purposefully selected to represent socio-economic and geographical diversity. In total, 400 households were randomly selected from the four study villages. Quantitative and qualitative information of the respondents were collected by use of semi-structured questionnaires and focus group discussions. Malaria was reported the most frequently occurring disease in the area (93%) and its aetiology was attributed to other non-biomedical causes like stagnant water (16%), and long rains (13%). Factors which significantly caused variation in bed net use were occupant relationship to household head (chi2 = 105.705; df 14; P = 0.000), Age (chi2 = 74.483; df 14; P = 0.000), village (chi2 = 150.325; df 6; P = 0.000), occupation (chi2 = 7.955; df 3; P = 0.047), gender (chi2 = 4.254; df 1; P = 0.039) and education levels of the household head or spouse (chi2 = 33.622; df 6; P = 0.000). The same variables determined access and conditions of bed nets at household level. Protection against mosquito bite (95%) was the main reason cited for using bed nets in most households while protection against malaria came second (54%). Colour, shape and affordability were some of the key potential factors which determined choice, use and acceptance of bed nets in the study area. The study highlights potential social and economic variables important for effective and sustainable implementation of bed nets-related programmes in Sub-Saharan Africa.
19371779	Fragrance or aroma in rice is considered as a special trait with huge economic importance that determines the premium price in global trade. With the availability of molecular maps and genome sequences, a major gene for fragrance (badh2) was identified on chromosome 8. An 8-bp deletion in the exon 7 of this gene was reported to result in truncation of betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme whose loss-of-function lead to the accumulation of a major aromatic compound, 2-acetyl 1-pyrroline (2AP) in fragrant rice. However, several studies have reported exceptions to this mutation and indicated the involvement of other genetic loci in controlling fragrance trait. These studies emphasize the need to characterize the fragrance and its underlying factors in a wide range of genetic resources available for this trait. This review summarizes the new insights gained on the genetic and molecular understanding of fragrance in rice.
19372371	By using a whole-genome oligonucleotide microarray, designed based on known and predicted indica rice genes, we investigated transcriptome profiles in developing leaves and panicles of superhybrid rice LYP9 and its parental cultivars 93-11 and PA64s. We detected 22,266 expressed genes out of 36,926 total genes set collectively from 7 tissues, including leaves at seedling and tillering stages, flag leaves at booting, heading, flowering, and filling stages, and panicles at filling stage. Clustering results showed that the F1 hybrid's expression profiles resembled those of its parental lines more than that which lies between the 2 parental lines. Out of the total gene set, 7,078 genes are shared by all sampled tissues and 3,926 genes (10.6% of the total gene set) are differentially expressed genes (DG). As we divided DG into those between the parents (DG(PP)) and between the hybrid and its parents (DG(HP)), the comparative results showed that genes in the categories of energy metabolism and transport are enriched in DG(HP) rather than in DG(PP). In addition, we correlated the concurrence of DG and yield-related quantitative trait loci, providing a potential group of heterosis-related genes.
19372385	Whole-genome duplication produces massive duplicated blocks in plant genomes. Sharing appreciable sequence similarity, duplicated blocks may have been affected by illegitimate recombination. However, large-scale evaluation of illegitimate recombination in plant genomes has not been possible previously. Here, based on comparative and phylogenetic analysis of the sequenced genomes of rice and sorghum, we report evidence of extensive and long-lasting recombination between duplicated blocks. We estimated that at least 5.5% and 4.1% of rice and sorghum duplicated genes have been affected by nonreciprocal recombination (gene conversion) over nearly their full length after rice-sorghum divergence, while even more (8.7% and 8.1%, respectively) have been converted over portions of their length. We found that conversion occurs in higher frequency toward the terminal regions of chromosomes, and expression patterns of converted genes are more positively correlated than nonconverted ones. Though converted paralogs are more similar to one another than nonconverted ones, elevated nucleotide differences between rice-sorghum orthologs indicates that they have evolved at a faster rate, implying that recombination acts as an accelerating, rather than a conservative, element. The converted genes show no change in selection pressure. We also found no evidence that conversion contributed to guanine-cytosine (GC) content elevation.
19373444	Limiting the ingestion of protein is the fundamental idea in the diet therapy for patients with chronic renal failure. Two mutations involved in the content of major rice storage proteins useful for developing low easy-to-digest protein rice variety have been isolated. The glb1 mutation causes the deficiency of alpha-globulin, and the Lgc1 mutation reduces the glutelin content. By combining the glb1 and the Lgc1 mutations, it is possible to reduce the easy-to-digest protein content by approximately 50%. The Lgc1 mutation has been shown to be caused by a 3.5-kb deletion between the glutelin structural genes, GluB4 and GluB5, while the molecular basis of glb1 mutation has been less understood. PCR analysis of the glb1 mutation revealed a 62.8-kb deletion, including the structural gene of alpha-globulin. Based on these lines of information, we generated PCR markers that make it possible to detect the glb1 and Lgc1 mutations. Using those PCR markers, we genotyped F(2) plants segregating for the glb1 mutation and the Lgc1 mutation and confirmed the consistency of genotype and phenotype. Because the PCR marker sets can distinguish heterozygotes, they will be very useful in developing new varieties of low easy-to-digest protein rice.
19373603	Dietary phytoestrogens may be involved in the occurrence of chronic diseases. Reliable information on the phytoestrogen content in foods is required to assess dietary exposure and disease risk in epidemiological studies. However, there is little information on isoflavone, lignan, and coumestrol content of cereals and cereal-based foods, leading to an underestimation of intake. This is the first study of phytoestrogens (isoflavones: biochanin A, daidzein, formononetin, genistein, glycitein; lignans: matairesinol, secoisplariciresinol; coumestrol) in a comprehensive selection of 101 cereals and cereal-based foods-including breads, breakfast cereals, biscuits, pasta and rice-consumed in the UK using a sensitive LCMS technique with 13C-labelled internal standards. Phytoestrogens were detected in all foods analyzed; bread contained the highest amount of phytoestrogens-many as isoflavones-with an average content of 375 +/- 67 microg/100 g wet weight (excluding soya-linseed bread with 12,000 microg/100 g). Most other foods contained less than 100 microg/100 g, many as lignans. Our study shows that all foods analyzed contained phytoestrogens, with the highest amount found in breads, making them one of the main sources of dietary phytoestrogens in the UK. These results will allow a more accurate estimation of exposure to dietary phytoestrogens.
19374263	Plant foods are important due to their antioxidant activity (AOA) attributed to the phenolics which are known to protect organisms against harmful effects of oxygen radicals. However, information on antioxidant activity of Indian plant foods is scanty. Therefore, the present study evaluated the AOA of cereals, millets, pulses and legumes, commonly consumed in India and assessed the relationship with their total phenolic content (TPC). AOA was assessed by DPPH (2,2-Diphenyl-1-picryl hydrazyl) radical scavenging assay, ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) assay and reducing power. DPPH scavenging activity ranged from 0.24 and 1.73 mg/g, whereas FRAP ranged from 16.21 to 471.71 micromoles/g. Finger millet (Eleusine cora cana) and Rajmah (Phaseolus vulgaris) had the highest FRAP 471.71, 372.76 and DPPH scavenging activity 1.73, 1.07. Similar trends were observed with reducing power. Among cereals and legumes, Finger millet (Ragi) and black gram dhal (Phaseolus mungo Roxb) had the highest TPC, the values being 373 and 418 mg/100 g respectively, while rice (Oryza sativa) and green gram dhal (Phaseolus aureus Roxb) showed the least (47.6 and 62.4 mg/100 g). In the present study, FRAP (r = 0.91) and reducing power (r = 0.90) showed significant correlation with TPC in cereals and millets, but not in pulses and legumes. The results suggest that TPC contributes significantly to the AOA of Indian cereals and millets.
19374313	Diarrheal disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among under-fives especially in rural and peri-urban communities in developing countries. Home management of diarrhea is one of the key household practices targeted for enhancement in the Community Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (C-IMCI) strategy. The aim of this study was to determine the perceptions of mothers/caregivers regarding the causes of diarrhea among under-fives and how it was managed in the home before seeking help from Community Health Workers or health facilities. A household longitudinal study was conducted in Nyando district, Kenya in 2004-2006 adopting both qualitative and quantitative approaches. A total of 927 mothers/caregivers of under-fives participated in the study. Perceived causes of childhood diarrhoea, action taken during diarrhea, fluid intake, recognition of signs of dehydration, feeding during convalescence, adherence to treatment and advice. Majority of the respondents 807 (87.1%) reported that their children had suffered from diarrhea within the last 2 weeks before commencement of the study. Diarrhea was found to contribute to 48% of child mortality in the study area. Perceived causes of diarrhea were: unclean water 524 (55.6%), contaminated food 508 (54.9%), bad eye 464 (50.0%), false teeth 423 (45.6%) and breast milk 331 (35.8%). More than 70% of mothers decreased fluid intake during diarrhea episodes. The mothers perceived wheat flour, rice water and selected herbs as anti-diarrheal agents. During illness, 239 (27.8%) of the children were reported not to have drunk any fluids at all, 487 (52.5%) drunk much less and only 93 (10.0%) were reported to have drunk more than usual. A significant 831 (89.6%) withheld milk including breast milk with the notion that it enhanced diarrhea. Based on these findings, there is need to develop and implement interactive communication strategies for the health workers and mothers to address perceptions and misconceptions and facilitate positive change in the household practice on management of diarrhea among under-fives.
19376836	Uptake and translocation of metal nutrients are essential processes for plant growth. Graminaceous species release phytosiderophores that bind to Fe(3+); these complexes are then transported across the plasma membrane. We have characterized OsYSL15, one of the rice (Oryza sativa) YS1-like (YSL) genes that are strongly induced by iron (Fe) deficiency. The OsYSL15 promoter fusion to beta-glucuronidase showed that it was expressed in all root tissues when Fe was limited. In low-Fe leaves, the promoter became active in all tissues except epidermal cells. This activity was also detected in flowers and seeds. The OsYSL15:green fluorescent protein fusion was localized to the plasma membrane. OsYSL15 functionally complemented yeast strains defective in Fe uptake on media containing Fe(3+)-deoxymugineic acid and Fe(2+)-nicotianamine. Two insertional osysl15 mutants exhibited chlorotic phenotypes under Fe deficiency and had reduced Fe concentrations in their shoots, roots, and seeds. Nitric oxide treatment reversed this chlorosis under Fe-limiting conditions. Overexpression of OsYSL15 increased the Fe concentration in leaves and seeds from transgenic plants. Altogether, these results demonstrate roles for OsYSL15 in Fe uptake and distribution in rice plants.
19376937	Secretory proteins and extracellular glycans are transported to the extracellular space during cell growth. These materials are carried in secretory vesicles generated at the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Analysis of the mammalian post-Golgi secretory pathway demonstrated the movement of separated secretory vesicles in the cell. Using secretory carrier membrane protein 2 (SCAMP2) as a marker for secretory vesicles and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cell as a model cell, we characterized the transport machinery in plant cells. A combination of analyses, including electron microscopy of quick-frozen cells and four-dimensional analysis of cells expressing fluorescent-tagged SCAMP2, enabled the identification of a clustered structure of secretory vesicles generated from TGN that moves in the cell and eventually fuses with plasma membrane. This structure was termed the secretory vesicle cluster (SVC). The SVC was also found in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa) cells and moved to the cell plate in dividing tobacco cells. Thus, the SVC is a motile structure involved in mass transport from the Golgi to the plasma membrane and cell plate in plant cells.
1937903	Specific IgE to proteins from Tribolium confusum (TC), a flour beetle, was detected in 9/125 sera of subjects exposed to rye and wheat flour. TC RAST was not inhibited by Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus, rye or wheat flour. Immunoblot experiments showed specific binding to three proteins from adult TC or pupae, not present in rye or wheat flour. These findings suggest that TC might act as an occupational allergen in a proportion of bakers.
19379284	The application of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in plant breeding involves the analysis of a large number of samples, and therefore requires rapid, inexpensive and highly automated multiplex methods to genotype the sequence variants. We have optimized a high-throughput multiplexed SNP assay for eight polymorphisms which explain two agronomic and three grain quality traits in rice. Gene fragments coding for the agronomic traits plant height (semi-dwarf, sd-1) and blast disease resistance (Pi-ta) and the quality traits amylose content (waxy), gelatinization temperature (alk) and fragrance (fgr) were amplified in a multiplex polymerase chain reaction. A single base extension reaction carried out at the polymorphism responsible for each of these phenotypes within these genes generated extension products which were quantified by a matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight system. The assay detects both SNPs and indels and is co-dominant, simultaneously detecting both homozygous and heterozygous samples in a multiplex system. This assay analyses eight functional polymorphisms in one 5 microL reaction, demonstrating the high-throughput and cost-effective capability of this system. At this conservative level of multiplexing, 3072 assays can be performed in a single 384-well microtitre plate, allowing the rapid production of valuable information for selection in rice breeding.
19380351	In monocots, starch branching enzyme II (BEII) was functionally differentiated into BEIIa and BEIIb after separation from the dicots, and in cereals BEIIb plays a distinct role in amylopectin biosynthesis in the endosperm. The present study was conducted to examine to what extent a green algal BEII has an overlapping function with BEIIb in starch biosynthesis by introducing the Chlorella BEII gene into an amylose-extender (ae) mutant of rice. Chlorella BEII was found to complement the contribution of the rice endosperm BEIIb to the structures of amylopectin and starch granules because these mutated phenotypes were recovered almost completely to those of the wild type by the expression of Chlorella BEII. When the recombinant BE enzymes were incubated with the rice ae amylopectin, the branching pattern of Chlorella BEII was much more similar to that of rice BEIIb rather than rice BEIIa. Detailed analyses of BE reaction products suggests that BEIIb and Chlorella BEII only transfer chains with a degree of polymerization (DP) of 6 and 7, whereas BEIIa preferably transfers short chains with a DP of about 6-11. These results show that the Chlorella BEII is functionally similar to rice BEIIb rather than BEIIa.
19382147	About 100 million rural people in Asia are exposed to arsenic (As)-polluted drinking water and agricultural products. Total and inorganic arsenic (t-As and i-As) intake mainly depend on the quality of drinking and cooking waters, and amounts of seafood and rice consumed. The main problems occur in countries with poor water quality where the population depends on rice for their diet, and their t-As and i-As intake is high as a result of growing and cooking rice in contaminated water. Workable solutions to remove As from water and breeding rice cultivars with low As accumulation are being sought. In the meantime, simple recommendations for processing and cooking foods will help to reduce As intake. For instance, cooking using high volumes of As-free water may be a cheap way of reducing As exposure in rural populations. It is necessary to consider the effects of cooking and processing on t-As and i-As to obtain a realistic view of the risks associated with intake of As in As-endemic areas.
19382581	Fish, as one of the most common causes of IgE-mediated food hypersensitivity, has recently received increasing attention from the food industry and legislative and regulatory agencies. A real-time polymerase chain reaction assay based on TaqMan-MGB probe technology was developed for the detection of parvalbumin, a major fish allergen gene. The assay had a sensitivity up to 5 pg purified fish DNA and had no cross-reaction with other species, such as cattle, sheep, swine, chicken, shrimp, lobster, crab, squid, clam, rice, soybean, maize, and potato. The coefficient of variation for both intra- and interexperimental variability demonstrated high reproducibility and accuracy. The assay proved to be a potential tool for the detection and label management of fish allergens in food.
19382792	The veA gene positively regulates sterigmatocystin production in Aspergillus nidulans and aflatoxin production in Aspergillus parasiticus and Aspergillus flavus . Whether veA homologues have a role in regulating secondary metabolism in other fungal genera is unknown. In this study, we examined the role of the veA homologue, FvVE1, on the production of two mycotoxin families, fumonisins and fusarins, in the important corn pathogen Fusarium verticillioides . We found that FvVE1 deletion completely suppressed fumonisin production on two natural substrates, corn and rice. Furthermore, our results revealed that FvVE1 is necessary for the expression of the pathway-specific regulatory gene FUM21 and structural genes in the fumonisin biosynthetic gene (FUM) cluster. FvVE1 deletion also blocked production of fusarins. The effects of FvVE1 deletion on the production of these toxins were found to be the same in two separate mating types. Our results strongly suggest that FvVE1 plays an important role in regulating mycotoxin production in F. verticillioides .
19383099	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonize the roots of most monocotyledons and dicotyledons despite their different root architecture and cell patterning. Among the cereal hosts of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, Oryza sativa (rice) possesses a peculiar root system composed of three different types of roots: crown roots; large lateral roots; and fine lateral roots. Characteristic is the constitutive formation of aerenchyma in crown roots and large lateral roots and the absence of cortex from fine lateral roots. Here, we assessed the distribution of colonization by Glomus intraradices within this root system and determined its effect on root system architecture. Large lateral roots are preferentially colonized, and fine lateral roots are immune to arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization. Fungal preference for large lateral roots also occurred in sym mutants that block colonization of the root beyond rhizodermal penetration. Initiation of large lateral roots is significantly induced by G. intraradices colonization and does not require a functional common symbiosis signaling pathway from which some components are known to be needed for symbiosis-mediated lateral root induction in Medicago truncatula. Our results suggest variation of symbiotic properties among the different rice root-types and induction of the preferred tissue by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Furthermore, signaling for arbuscular mycorrhizal-elicited alterations of the root system differs between rice and M. truncatula.
19384338	A detailed examination of 45 pea (Pisum sativum L.) simple sequence repeat (SSR) loci revealed that 21 of them included homologous sequences corresponding to the long terminal repeat (LTR) of a novel retrotransposon. Further investigation, including full-length sequencing, led to its classification as an RLC-Angela-family-FJ434420 element. The LTR contained a variable region ranging from a simple TC repeat (TC)(11) to more complex repeats of TC/CA, (TC)(12-30), (CA)(18-22) and was up to 146 bp in length. These elements are the most abundant Ty1/copia retrotransposons identified in the pea genome and also occur in other legume species. It is interesting that analysis of 63 LTR-derived sequences originating from 30 legume species showed high phylogenetic conservation in their sequence, including the position of the variable SSR region. This extraordinary conservancy led us to the proposition of a new lineage, named MARTIANS, within the Angela family. Similar LTR structures and partial sequence similarities were detected in more distant members of this Angela family, the barley BARE-1 and rice RIRE-1 elements. Comparison of the LTR sequences from pea and Medicago truncatula elements indicated that microsatellites arise through the expansion of a pre-existing repeat motif. Thus, the presence of an SSR region within the LTR seems to be a typical feature of this MARTIANS lineage, and the evidence gathered from a wide range of species suggests that these elements may facilitate amplification and genome-wide dispersal of associated SSR sequences. The implications of this finding regarding the evolution of SSRs within the genome, as well as their utilization as molecular markers, are discussed.
19385244	Based on multi-spectral digital image texture feature, a new rapid and nondestructive method for discriminating rice categories was put forward. The new method combined the advantages of wavelet packet and support vector machine (SVM). In the present study, the images which are 1 036 pixels in vertical direction by 1,384 pixels in horizontal direction with 24-bit depth were captured using a red (R) waveband, near infrared (NIR) waveband and green (G) waveband multi-spectral digital imager. The three wavebands of image (red, green and NIR) can be composed into one image which contains more information than images captured by ordinary digital cameras, and the NIR image can catch more information than visible spectrum. NIR waveband images were decomposed to 16 subbands using three wavelet packet multi-resolution. Because the main feature of texture information is concentrated on the middle frequency, the 8 subbands of middle frequency were selected to calculate entropy, and the entropy of three wavebands of original image was calculated at the same time. Eighty images (twenty for each category) were used for calibration set and eighty images (twenty for each category) were used as the prediction set. Then the rice categories were classified by SVM. The classification rate of rice categories was only 93.75% using the entropy of original image, but reached 100% by wavelet packet decomposition. The overall results show that the technique combining wavelet packet and support vector machine can be efficiently utilized for texture recognition of multi-spectra, and is an effective and simple technique for discriminating the rice categories. This study also provides a foundation for rice grading and other rice industry processing such as quality diction and milling degree.
19385656	Two biotypes of Scirpus mucronatus not controlled with the herbicide bensulfuron-methyl in rice fields were characterized by using field, greenhouse, and laboratory techniques. Seeds were collected in two rice areas [Parral (R1) and Linares (R2)], where bensulfuron-methyl at 150 g ha(-1) did not control S. mucronatus. A third seed sample of S. mucronatus susceptible (S) to bensulfuron-methyl was collected in an area from Chile. The dose-response studies confirmed resistance to bensulfuron-methyl in R1 and R2 S. mucronatus biotypes; ratios (R/S) of the ED(50) values of resistant to susceptible plants were 1719 and 1627 for R1 and R2, respectively. The biotype R1 also showed strong cross-resistance (ratios ranging from 1719 to 43) to sulfonylureas (bensulfuron-methyl, cyclosulfamuron, ethoxysulfuron, imazosulfuron, and pyrazosulfuron-ethyl) and imidazolinone (imazamox) and a weak cross-resistance (ratio of 1.705) to pyrimidinyloxybenzoates (bispyribac-sodium), all ALS inhibiting herbicides used in rice. Absorption, translocation, and metabolism results did not explain the differences in susceptibility among biotypes. The in vitro assays confirmed cross-resistance to all ALS inhibitors tested and the level of cross resistance was bensulfuron-methyl > imazosulfuron ≫ cyclosulfamuron ≫ pyrazosulfuron-ethyl ≫ ethoxysulfuron > imazamox ≫ bispiribac-sodium. Molecular studies demonstrated that the Pro197His amino acid substitution on the ALS enzyme could explain the loss of affinity for the ALS-inhibiting herbicides.
19386040	Over 3.5 million expressed sequence tags from the major cereal taxa were used to electronically mine over 176,000 putative single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The density, distribution and degree of linkage between these SNPs were compared among the different taxa. The frequency of sequence polymorphism was lowest in diploid taxa (rice, barley and sorghum), intermediate in tetraploid maize and highest in allohexaploid wheat and octoploid sugarcane. SNPs were further categorized as either intravarietal (differences between gene family members and homoeologues) or varietal (differences between two varieties), and as either co-segregating or non-co-segregating with neighbouring polymorphisms. Varietal co-segregating SNPs represent the best candidates for molecular markers as they show variation between varieties and have a high probability of being validated, as sequencing errors are unlikely to co-segregate with one another. This elite class of SNPs was most abundant in barley and least abundant in wheat and rice. Despite the large number of observed sequence polymorphisms in allohexaploid wheat, only a fraction of those available are likely to make good molecular markers. In addition, we found that rice SNPs up to 10 kb apart were in linkage disequilibrium (LD), but that high levels of LD attributable to population structure confounded the tracking of LD over greater distances.
19386041	Molecular markers are used to provide the link between genotype and phenotype, for the production of molecular genetic maps and to assess genetic diversity within and between related species. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are the most abundant molecular genetic marker. SNPs can be identified in silico, but care must be taken to ensure that the identified SNPs reflect true genetic variation and are not a result of errors associated with DNA sequencing. The SNP detection method autoSNP has been developed to identify SNPs from sequence data for any species. Confidence in the predicted SNPs is based on sequence redundancy, and haplotype co-segregation scores are calculated for a further independent measure of confidence. We have extended the autoSNP method to produce autoSNPdb, which integrates SNP and gene annotation information with a graphical viewer. We have applied this software to public barley expressed sequences, and the resulting database is available over the Internet. SNPs can be viewed and searched by sequence, functional annotation or predicted synteny with a reference genome, in this case rice. The correlation between SNPs and barley cultivar, expressed tissue type and development stage has been collated for ease of exploration. An average of one SNP per 240 bp was identified, with SNPs more prevalent in the 5' regions and simple sequence repeat (SSR) flanking sequences. Overall, autoSNPdb can provide a wealth of genetic polymorphism information for any species for which sequence data are available.
19386809	Two types of branches, rachis branches (i.e. nonfloral) and spikelets (i.e. floral), are produced during rice (Oryza sativa) inflorescence development. We previously reported that the ABERRANT PANICLE ORGANIZATION1 (APO1) gene, encoding an F-box-containing protein orthologous to Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS, suppresses precocious conversion of rachis branch meristems to spikelets to ensure generation of certain number of spikelets. Here, we identified four dominant mutants producing an increased number of spikelets and found that they are gain-of-function alleles of APO1. The APO1 expression levels are elevated in all four mutants, suggesting that an increase of APO1 activity caused the delay in the program shift to spikelet formation. In agreement with this result, ectopic overexpression of APO1 accentuated the APO1 gain-of-function phenotypes. In the apo1-D dominant alleles, the inflorescence meristem starts to increase in size more vigorously than the wild type when switching to the reproductive development phase. This alteration in growth rate is opposite to what is observed with the apo1 mutants that have a smaller inflorescence meristem. The difference in meristem size is caused by different rates of cell proliferation. Collectively, these results suggest that the level of APO1 activity regulates the inflorescence form through control of cell proliferation in the meristem.
19387813	Rice tungro, a devastating disease of rice in south and southeast Asia, is caused by the joint infection of Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) and Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV). In order to obtain transgenic resistance against RTBV, indica rice cultivar Pusa Basmati-1 was transformed to express the coat protein (CP) gene of an Indian isolate of RTBV. Rice plants containing the transgene integrated in low copy numbers were obtained, in which the CP was shown to accumulate in the leaf tissue. The progenies representing three independent transformation events were challenged with Indian isolates of RTBV using viruliferous Green leafhoppers, and the viral titers in the inoculated plants were monitored using DNA dot-blot hybridization. As compared to non-transgenic controls, two independent transgenic lines showed significantly low levels of RTBV DNA, especially towards later stages of infection and a concomitant reduction of tungro symptoms.
19388261	To better understand the mechanisms of cyclic di-GMP signaling in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo),the casual pathogen of bacterial blight of rice, molecular identification of Clpxoo. A putative signal receptor protein was performed through gene cloning, sequencing and deletion analysis. Sequence analysis showed Clpxoo was a homologue of Crp and Vfr, the cAMP receptor proteins in Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa respectively, which had the cNMP-binding domains (CAP_ED) at N terminal and the DNA-binding domains (HTH_CRP) at C terminal and is highly conserved in the plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas spp. We constructed delta clpxoo through a double crossover recombination and validated by PCR assay, delta clpxoo displayed the reduced motility and extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) production, and increased sensitive to H2O2 toxicity compared with PXO99(A). All these phenotype changes could be partly restored through complementation of mutants by introducing clpxoo. Moreover, we observed no significant changes in production of extracellular cellulase and xylanase in vitro, biofilm formation and induction of hypersensitive response (HR) on non-host tobacco in delta clpxoo compared to PXO99(A). Therefore, Clpxoo played a role as one of the global regulator in regulation of flagellar motility, EPS production and H2O2 resistance.
19388698	Radicals containing the histidine residue have been generated in the gas phase by femtosecond electron transfer to protonated histidine-N-methylamide (1H+), Nalpha-acetylhistidine-N-methylamide (2H+), Nalpha-glycylhistidine (3H+), and Nalpha-histidylglycine (4H+). Radicals generated by collisional electron transfer from dimethyldisulfide to ions 1H+ and 2H+ at 7 keV collision energies were found to dissociate completely on the microsecond time scale, as probed by reionization to cations. The main dissociations produced fragments from the imidazole side chain and the cleavage of the C(alpha)CO bond, whereas products of NCalpha bond cleavage were not observed. Electron transfer from gaseous potassium atoms to ions 3H+ and 4H+ at 2.97 keV collision energies not only caused backbone NCalpha bond dissociations but also furnished fractions of stable radicals that were detected after conversion to anions. Ion structures, ion-electron recombination energies, radical structures, electron affinities, and dissociation and transition-state energies were obtained by combined density functional theory and Møller-Plesset perturbational calculations (B3-PMP2) and basis sets ranging from 6-311+G(2d,p) to aug-cc-pVTZ. The Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory was used to calculate rate constants on the B3-PMP2 potential energy surfaces to aid interpretation of the mass spectrometric data. The stability of Nalpha-histidylglycine-derived radicals is attributed to an exothermic isomerization in the imidazole ring, which is internally catalyzed by reversible proton transfer from the carboxyl group. The isomerization depends on the steric accessibility of the histidine side chain and the carboxyl group and involves a novel cation radical-COO salt-bridge intermediate.
19389320	Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys. Very large increases in blood folate levels of the U.S. population occurred between 1988-1994 and 1999-2000. Small fluctuations in blood folate levels occurred over the time period 1999-2006. The median red blood cell (RBC) folate level of the U.S. population 4 years of age and older was 266 ng/mL in 2005-2006. The median serum folate level of the U.S. population 4 years of age and older was 12.2 ng/mL in 2005-2006. In 2005-2006, the prevalence of low RBC folate (less than 140 ng/mL) among U.S. women of childbearing age (15-45 years) was 4.5%. In 2005-2006, the prevalence of low serum folate (less than 3 ng/mL) among U.S. women of childbearing age was 0.5%. Folate is an essential vitamin for good health. Women of childbearing age are among the population subgroups that have been shown previously to have low blood folate levels. Low blood folate levels are associated with an increased risk of neural tube birth defects. Beginning in 1998, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) required the addition of folic acid (a form of folate) to all enriched breads, cereals, flours, corn meal, pasta products, rice, and other cereal grain products sold in the United States. Blood folate data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) have documented improvements in the folate status of the U.S. population after folate fortification was implemented. Red blood cell (RBC) folate measures long-term folate intake and low levels are associated with adverse health effects. Serum folate reflects recent folate intake and low levels are an early indicator of inadequate folate status. Pre- and postfortification blood folate levels of the U.S. population 4 years of age and older and prevalence of low blood folate among women of childbearing age (15-45 years) are reported.
19390617	For successful colonization and further reproduction in host plants, pathogens need to overcome the innate defenses of the plant. We demonstrate that a novel pathogenicity gene, DES1, in Magnaporthe oryzae regulates counter-defenses against host basal resistance. The DES1 gene was identified by screening for pathogenicity-defective mutants in a T-DNA insertional mutant library. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that this gene encodes a serine-rich protein that has unknown biochemical properties, and its homologs are strictly conserved in filamentous Ascomycetes. Targeted gene deletion of DES1 had no apparent effect on developmental morphogenesis, including vegetative growth, conidial germination, appressorium formation, and appressorium-mediated penetration. Conidial size of the mutant became smaller than that of the wild type, but the mutant displayed no defects on cell wall integrity. The Deltades1 mutant was hypersensitive to exogenous oxidative stress and the activity and transcription level of extracellular enzymes including peroxidases and laccases were severely decreased in the mutant. In addition, ferrous ion leakage was observed in the Deltades1 mutant. In the interaction with a susceptible rice cultivar, rice cells inoculated with the Deltades1 mutant exhibited strong defense responses accompanied by brown granules in primary infected cells, the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), the generation of autofluorescent materials, and PR gene induction in neighboring tissues. The Deltades1 mutant displayed a significant reduction in infectious hyphal extension, which caused a decrease in pathogenicity. Notably, the suppression of ROS generation by treatment with diphenyleneiodonium (DPI), an inhibitor of NADPH oxidases, resulted in a significant reduction in the defense responses in plant tissues challenged with the Deltades1 mutant. Furthermore, the Deltades1 mutant recovered its normal infectious growth in DPI-treated plant tissues. These results suggest that DES1 functions as a novel pathogenicity gene that regulates the activity of fungal proteins, compromising ROS-mediated plant defense.
19390686	It has been suggested that the chloroplast genomes of the grass family, Poaceae, have undergone an elevated evolutionary rate compared to most other angiosperms, yet the details of this phenomenon have remained obscure. To know how the rate change occurred during evolution, estimation of the time-scale with reliable calibrations is needed. The recent finding of 65 Ma grass phytoliths in Cretaceous dinosaur coprolites places the diversification of the grasses to the Cretaceous period, and provides a reliable calibration in studying the tempo and mode of grass chloroplast evolution. By using chloroplast genome data from angiosperms and by taking account of new paleontological evidence, we now show that episodic rate acceleration both in terms of non-synonymous and synonymous substitutions occurred in the common ancestral branch of the core Poaceae (a group formed by rice, wheat, maize, and their allies) accompanied by adaptive evolution in several chloroplast proteins, while the rate reverted to the slow rate typical of most monocot species in the terminal branches. Our finding of episodic rate acceleration in the ancestral grasses accompanied by adaptive molecular evolution has a profound bearing on the evolution of grasses, which form a highly successful group of plants. The widely used model for estimating divergence times was based on the assumption of correlated rates between ancestral and descendant lineages. However, the assumption is proved to be inadequate in approximating the episodic rate acceleration in the ancestral grasses, and the assumption of independent rates is more appropriate. This finding has implications for studies of molecular evolutionary rates and time-scale of evolution in other groups of organisms.
19390826	The OsAsrt cDNA clone was isolated from a cDNA library prepared from developing seed coats of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Low-temperature stress increased mRNA levels of OsAsr1 in both vegetative and reproductive organs. In situ analysis showed that OsAsr1 transcript was preferentially accumulated in the leaf mesophyll tissues and parenchyma cells of the palea and lemma. For transgenic rice plants that over-expressed full-length OsAsr1 cDNA in the sense orientation, the Fv/Fm values for photosynthetic efficiency were about 2-fold higher than those of wild type-segregating plants after a 24-h cold treatment. Seedlings exposed to prolonged low temperatures were more tolerant of cold stress, as demonstrated during wilting and regrowth tests. Interestingly, OsAsr1 was highly expressed in transgenic rice plants expressing the C-repeat/dehyhdration responsive element binding factor 1 (CBF1), suggesting the regulation of OsAsr1 by CBF1. Taken together, we suggest that OsAsr1 gene play an important role during temperature stress, and that this gene can be used for generating plants with enhanced cold tolerance.
19390827	MUG1 is a MULE transposon-related domesticated gene in plants. We assessed the sequence diversity, neutrality, expression, and phylogenetics of the MUG1 gene among Oryza ssp. We found MUG1 expression in all tissues analyzed, with different levels in O. sativa. There were 408 variation sites in the 3886 bp of MUG1 locus. The nucleotide diversity of the MUG1 was higher than functionally known genes in rice. The nucleotide diversity (pi) in the domains was lower than the average nucleotide diversity in whole coding region. The pi values in nonsynonymous sites were lower than those of synonymous sites. Tajima D and Fu and Li D* values were mostly negative values, suggesting purifying selection in MUG1 sequences of Oryza ssp. Genome-specific variation and phylogenetic analyses show a general grouping of MUG1 sequences congruent with Oryza ssp. biogeography; however, our MUG1 phylogenetic results, in combination with separate B and D genome studies, might suggest an early divergence of the Oryza ssp. by continental drift of Gondwanaland. O. longistaminata MUG1 divergence from other AA diploids suggests that it might not be a direct ancestor of the African rice species.
19390838	Development-controlled resistance and resistance specificity frequently restrict the application of a disease resistance (R) gene in crop breeding programs. Xa3/Xa26 and Xa21, encoding leucine-rich repeat (LRR)-kinase type plasma membrane proteins, mediate race-specific resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), which causes bacterial blight, one of the most devastating rice diseases. Plants carrying Xa3/Xa26 and plants carrying Xa21 have different resistance spectra and the functions of the two R genes are regulated by developmental stage. Four chimeric genes encoding proteins consisting of different parts of XA3/XA26 and XA21 were constructed by domain swapping and transformed into a susceptible rice variety. The resistance spectra and development-regulated resistance of the transgenic plants carrying Xa3/Xa26, Xa21, or chimeric gene to different Xoo strains were analyzed in the same genetic background. The results suggest that the gradually increased expression of Xa3/Xa26 and Xa21 plays an important role in the progressively enhanced Xoo resistance during rice development. In addition, the LRR domains of XA3/XA26 and XA21 are important determinants of race-specific recognition during rice-Xoo interaction, but juxtamembrane regions of the two R proteins also appear to contribute to resistance specificity.
19391028	Tarhana, a traditional fermented cereal food in Turkey, is mainly prepared with wheat flour and yoghurt. Buckwheat is a major ingredient in the daily diet of the celiac patients due to its gluten-free composition. In this research, gluten-free tarhana samples were prepared with buckwheat flour (BWF), rice flour and corn starch. Control tarhana was made of wheat flour. In gluten-free formulations, instead of wheat flour, 40% BWF, 30% rice flour and 30% corn starch in the first formulation and 60% BWF, 20% rice flour and 20% corn starch in the second formulation were handled. BWF substitution at a 60% level increased the ash and fat contents of tarhana samples, but affected the lightness value of the samples negatively. Potassium, magnesium and phosphorus contents of the gluten-free tarhana increased significantly (P <0.05) with increasing amount of BWF in the formulation. Sensory evaluation showed that BWF addition resulted in changes in consistency, taste, sourness and grittiness. Tarhana containing 40% BWF received the highest taste and overall acceptability scores.
1939156	We present evidence to show that the alpha-amylase gene family in rice is under two different modes of regulation: 1) hormonal regulation in germinating seeds, and 2) metabolic repression in cultured cells by available carbohydrate nutrients. Expression of alpha-amylase genes in deembryoed rice seeds is known to be induced by exogenous gibberellic acid. On the other hand, expression of alpha-amylase genes in suspension-cultured cells is induced by the deprivation of carbohydrate nutrient. A lag period of 2-4 h is required for the induction of alpha-amylase mRNA in sucrose-depleted medium. The induction of alpha-amylase expression is extraordinarily high and levels of alpha-amylase mRNA can be increased 8-20-folds after 24 h of sucrose starvation. The synthesis and secretion of alpha-amylase is also dependent upon the level of carbon source. The derepression or repression of alpha-amylase synthesis can be readily reversed by the deprivation or replenishment of sucrose in the medium, respectively. Glucose and fructose exert a repression on the alpha-amylase synthesis similar to that of sucrose. A hypothesis that explains the induction of alpha-amylase synthesis by carbohydrate starvation is proposed. Our data have suggested a hitherto undiscovered, potentially important control mechanism of carbohydrate metabolism in higher plants.
19392701	Meiosis is essential for eukaryotic sexual reproduction and important for genetic diversity among individuals. Although a number of genes regulating homologous chromosome pairing and synapsis have been identified in the plant kingdom, their molecular basis remains poorly understood. In this study, we identified a novel gene, PAIR3 (HOMOLOGOUS PAIRING ABERRATION IN RICE MEIOSIS 3), required for homologous chromosome pairing and synapsis in rice. Two independent alleles, designated pair3-1 and pair3-2, were identified in our T-DNA insertional mutant library which could not form bivalents due to failure of homologous chromosome pairing and synapsis at diakinesis, resulting in sterility in both male and female gametes. Suppression of PAIR3 by RNAi produced similar results to the T-DNA insertion lines. PAIR3 encodes a protein that contains putative coiled-coil motifs, but does not have any close homologs in other organisms. PAIR3 is preferentially expressed in reproductive organs, especially in pollen mother cells and the ovule tissues during meiosis. Our results suggest that PAIR3 plays a crucial role in homologous chromosome pairing and synapsis in meiosis.
19393098	Malaria vector sampling is the best method for understanding the vector dynamics and infectivity; thus, disease transmission seasonality can be established. There is a need to protecting humans involved in the sampling of disease vectors during surveillance or in control programmes. In this study, human landing catch, two cow odour baited resting boxes and an unbaited resting box were evaluated as vector sampling tools in an area with a high proportion of Anopheles arabiensis, as the major malaria vector. Three resting boxes were evaluated against human landing catch. Two were baited with cow odour, while the third was unbaited. The inner parts of the boxes were covered with black cloth materials. Experiments were arranged in latin-square design. Boxes were set in the evening and left undisturbed; mosquitoes were collected at 06:00 am the next morning, while human landing catch was done overnight. A total of 9,558 An. arabiensis mosquitoes were collected. 17.5% (N = 1668) were collected in resting box baited with cow body odour, 42.5% (N = 4060) in resting box baited with cow urine, 15.1% (N = 1444) in unbaited resting box and 24.9% (N = 2386) were collected by human landing catch technique. In analysis, the house positions had no effect on the density of mosquitoes caught (DF = 3, F = 0.753, P = 0.387); the sampling technique had significant impact on the caught mosquitoes densities (DF = 3, F 37. 944, P < 0.001). Odour-baited resting boxes have shown the possibility of replacing the existing traditional method (human landing catch) for sampling malaria vectors in areas with a high proportion of An. arabiensis as malaria vectors. Further evaluations of fermented urine and longevity of the urine odour still need to be investigated.
19393365	According to the WHO definition for counterfeit medicines, several categories can be established, e.g., medicines containing the correct active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) but different excipients, medicines containing low levels of API, no API or even a substitute API. Obviously, these different scenarios will have different detrimental effects on a patient's health. Establishing the degree of risk to the patient through determination of the composition of counterfeit medicines found in the market place is thus of paramount importance. In this work, classical least squares was used for predicting the composition of counterfeit Heptodin tablets found in a market survey. Near infrared chemical imaging (NIR-CI) was used as a non-destructive measurement technique. No prior knowledge about the origin and composition of the tablets was available. Good API (i.e., lamivudine) predictions were obtained, especially for tablets containing a high API (close to the authentic) dose. Concentration maps of each pure material, i.e., the API (lamivudine) and the excipients microcrystalline cellulose, sodium starch glycollate, rice starch and talc, were estimated. Below 1% of the energy was not explained by the model (residuals percentage) for every pixel in all 12 counterfeit tablets. The similarities among tablets with respect to the total API percentage determined, as well as the corresponding concentration maps, support the classification of the tablets into the different groups obtained in previous work.
19393480	Nephrotic dyslipidemia is a risk factor for development of systemic atherosclerosis; also it may aggravate glomerulosclerosis and enhance progression of glomerular disease. We aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of Monascus purpureus Went rice vs. fluvastatin therapy in the management of nephrotic dyslipidemia. Seventy-two patients with idiopathic persistent nephrotic syndrome with secondary dyslipidemia were included. They were randomly allocated into 3 - age and sex - matched groups. The first group comprised of 20 cases and were given Monascus purpureus Went rice, second group comprised 30 cases were given fluvastatin. The remaining 22 received no anti-dyslipidemic therapy and constituted a control group. All of these patients were subjected to thorough laboratory investigations including renal function tests, lipogram and neurological assessment. Our results showed that both fluvastatin and Monascus purpureus Went rice were well-tolerated with no significant side effects. Both of them significantly reduced cholesterol after 6 months and 1 year. In comparison to baseline values, fluvastatin achieved a significant and progressive reduction of serum cholesterol by 35%, 38% and 42% at 3 months, 6 months and after 1 year respectively (p<0.001). Similar reductions were observed in the Monascus purpureus Went rice group. After one year we observed that serum cholesterol was significantly lower in statin and Monascus purpureus Went rice groups compared to the control group. Monascus purpureus Went rice is safe, effective cholesterol lowering agent for nephrotic dyslipidemia both in adults and children.
19393612	Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) amide conjugates play an important role in balancing levels of free IAA in plant cells. The GH3 family of proteins conjugates free IAA with various amino acids. For example, auxin levels modulate expression of the Oryza sativa (rice) GH3-8 protein, which acts to prevent IAA accumulation by coupling the hormone to aspartate. To examine the kinetic properties of the enzyme, we developed a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) assay system. Bacterially expressed OsGH3-8 was purified to homogeneity and used to establish the assay system. Monitoring of the reaction confirms the reaction product as IAA-Asp and demonstrates that production of the conjugate increases proportionally with both time and enzyme amount. Steady-state kinetic analysis using the LC-MS/MS-based assay yields the following parameters: V/E(t)(IAA)=20.3 min(-1), K(m)(IAA)=123 microM, V/E(t)(ATP)=14.1 min(-1), K(m)(ATP)=50 microM, V/E(t)(Asp)=28.8 min(-1), K(m)(Asp)=1580 microM. This is the first assignment of kinetic values for any IAA-amido synthetase from plants. Compared with previously described LC- and thin-layer chromatography (TLC)-based assays, this LC-MS/MS method provides a robust and sensitive means for performing direct kinetic studies on a range of IAA-conjugating enzymes.
19393730	We investigated the solid particle flow characteristics and biomass gasification in a clapboard-type internal circulating fluidized bed reactor. The effect of fluidization velocity on particle circulation rate and pressure distribution in the bed showed that fluidization velocities in the high and low velocity zones were the main operational parameters controlling particle circulation. The maximum internal circulation rates in the low velocity zone came almost within the range of velocities in the high velocity zone, when u(H)/u(mf)=2.2-2.4 for rice husk and u(H)/u(mf)=3.5-4.5 for quartz sand. In the gasification experiment, the air equivalence ratio (ER) was the main controlling parameter. Rice husk gasification gas had a maximum heating value of around 5000 kJ/m(3) when ER=0.22-0.26, and sawdust gasification gas reached around 6000-6500 kJ/m(3) when ER=0.175-0.24. The gasification efficiency of rice husk reached a maximum of 77% at ER=0.28, while the gasification efficiency of sawdust reached a maximum of 81% at ER=0.25.
19394085	It has recently become apparent that arsenic-contaminated groundwater used for irrigation in several countries of South and South-east Asia is adding arsenic to soils and rice, thus posing a serious threat to sustainable agricultural production and to the health and livelihoods of affected people in those countries. This paper describes the many environmental, agricultural and social factors that determine practical mitigation strategies and research needs, and describes possible mitigation measures that need to be tested. These measures include providing alternative irrigation sources, various agronomic measures, use of soil amendments, growing hyperaccumulator plants, removing contaminated soil and using alternative cooking methods.
19395386	Salinity tolerance in rice, like in other glycophytes, is a function of cellular ion homeostasis. The large divergence in ion homeostasis between the salt-tolerant FL478 and salt-sensitive IR29 rice varieties can be exploited to understand mechanisms of salinity tolerance. Physiological studies indicate that FL478 shows a lower Na(+) influx, a reduced Na(+) translocation to the shoot, and maintains a lower Na(+):K(+) ratio. To understand the basis of these differences, a comparative investigation of transcript regulation in roots of the two cultivars was undertaken. This analysis revealed that genes encoding aquaporins, a silicon transporter, and N transporters are induced in both cultivars. However, transcripts for cation transport proteins including OsCHX11, OsCNGC1, OsCAX, and OsTPC1 showed differential regulation between the cultivars. The encoded proteins are likely to participate in reducing Na(+) influx, lowering the tissue Na(+):K(+) ratio and limiting the apoplastic bypass flow in roots of FL478 and are therefore important new targets to improve salt tolerance in rice.
19395387	To identify the effect of nitrogen (N) nutrition on photosynthetic efficiency and mesophyll conductance of rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L., cv. 'Shanyou 63' hybrid indica China), hydroponic experiments with different concentrations of N were conducted in a greenhouse. Although leaf N concentration on a dry mass basis increased with increasing supply of N, no significant differences in seedling biomass were observed. A higher light-saturated CO(2) assimilation rate (A) with a high concentration of supplied N was associated with a higher carboxylation efficiency (CE), but not a higher apparent quantum yield (alpha). Based on classic photosynthetic models, both the Rubisco content and the ribulose bisphosphate (RuBP) regeneration rate were sufficient for light-saturated photosynthesis in rice seedlings; the estimated chloroplastic CO(2) concentration (C(c)) and mesophyll conductance (g(m)) demonstrated that a low C(c) was the ultimate limiting factor to photosynthetic efficiency with a higher N supply. Due to a greater chloroplast size (i.e. a shorter distance to the plasma membrane) with a higher supply of N, the CO(2) transport resistance in the liquid phase (g(liq)) in high-N leaves was lower than that in low-N leaves, which resulted in higher g(m) and C(c) in high-N leaves. Although CE(A/Ci) was higher with a high supply of N, there were no differences in CE(A/Cc) between plants grown with different concentrations of N, indicating that the carboxylation capacity of Rubisco between plants grown at different N concentrations was constant. The enhanced photosynthetic rate with supply of a high N concentration was attributed to a higher CO(2) concentration in the chloroplasts, related to a higher mesophyll conductance due to an increased chloroplast size.
19395481	Quorum sensing (QS) plays important roles in the pathogenicity of Burkholderia glumae, the causative agent of bacterial rice grain rot. We determined how QS is involved in catalase expression in B. glumae. The QS-defective mutant of B. glumae exhibited less catalase activity than wild-type B. glumae. A beta-glucuronidase assay of a katG::Tn3-gusA78 reporter fusion protein revealed that katG expression is under the control of QS. Furthermore, katG expression was upregulated by QsmR, a transcriptional activator for flagellar-gene expression that is regulated by QS. A gel mobility shift assay confirmed that QsmR directly activates katG expression. The katG mutant produced toxoflavin but exhibited less severe disease than BGR1 on rice panicles. Under visible light conditions and a photon flux density of 61.6 micromol(-1) m(-2), the survival rate of the katG mutant was 10(5)-fold lower than that of BGR1. This suggests that KatG is a major catalase that protects bacterial cells from visible light, which probably results in less severe disease caused by the katG mutant.
19395588	Together maize, Sorghum, rice, and wheat grass (Poaceae) species are the most important cereal crops in the world and exhibit different "grain endosperm texture." This trait has been studied extensively in wheat because of its pivotal role in determining quality of products obtained from wheat grain. Grain softness protein-1 and Puroindolines A and B (grain storage proteins), encoded by Ha-like genes: Gsp-1, Pina, and Pinb, of the Hardness (Ha) locus, are the main determinants of the grain softness/hardness trait in wheat. The origin and evolution of grain endosperm texture in grasses was addressed by comparing genomic sequences of the Ha orthologous region of wheat, Brachypodium, rice, and Sorghum. Results show that the Ha-like genes are present in wheat and Brachypodium but are absent from Sorghum bicolor. A truncated remnant of an Ha-like gene is present in rice. Synteny analysis of the genomes of these grass species shows that only one of the paralogous Ha regions, created 70 My by whole-genome duplication, contained Ha-like genes. The comparative genome analysis and evolutionary comparison with genes encoding grain reserve proteins of grasses suggest that an ancestral Ha-like gene emerged, as a new member of the prolamin gene family, in a common ancestor of the Pooideae (Triticeae and Brachypoidieae tribes) and Ehrhartoideae (rice), between 60 and 50 My, after their divergence from Panicoideae (Sorghum). It was subsequently lost in Ehrhartoideae. Recurring duplications, deletions, and/or truncations occurred independently and appear to characterize Ha-like gene evolution in the grass species. The Ha-like genes gained a new function in Triticeae, such as wheat, underlying the soft grain phenotype. Loss of these genes in some wheat species leads, in turn, to hard endosperm seeds.
19395655	Several nuclear-encoded proteins containing pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) motifs have previously been identified to be trans-factors essential for particular chloroplast RNA editing events through analysis of mutants affected in chloroplast biogenesis or function. Other PPR genes are known to encode proteins involved in other aspects of organelle RNA metabolism. A function has not been assigned to most members of the large plant PPR gene family. Arabidopsis and rice each contain over 400 PPR genes, of which about a fifth exhibit a C-terminal DYW domain. We describe here a comparative genomics approach that will facilitate identification of the role of RNA-binding proteins in organelle RNA metabolism. We have implemented this strategy to identify an Arabidopsis nuclear-encoded gene RARE1 that is required for editing of the chloroplast accD transcript. RARE1 carries 15 PPR motifs, an E/E+ and a DYW domain, whereas previously reported editing factors CRR4, CRR21, and CLB19 lack a DYW domain. The accD gene encodes the beta carboxyltransferase subunit of acetyl coA carboxylase, which catalyzes the first step in fatty acid biosynthesis in chloroplasts. Despite a lack of accD C794 editing and lack of restoration of an evolutionarily conserved leucine residue in the beta carboxyltransferase protein, rare1 mutants are unexpectedly robust and reproduce under growth room conditions. Previously the serine-to-leucine alteration caused by editing was deemed essential in the light of the finding that a recombinantly expressed "unedited" form of the pea acetyl coA carboxylase was catalytically inactive.
19396402	Isu is a scaffold protein involved in mitochondrial iron-sulfur-cluster biogenesis, which affects redox and iron homeostasis in human and yeast cells. A BLASTP search identified two putative Isu genes in rice, and we designated one of them as OsIsu1. When expressed in onion epidermal cells, OsIsu1::GFP was localized to the mitochondria. Northern analysis showed that OsIsu1 was down-regulated in iron-deficient rice root. OsIsu1 promoter-GUS was introduced into Arabidopsis thaliana and histochemical GUS-staining showed that OsIsu1 expression was regulated in a stage- and tissue-specific manner. OsIsu1 was expressed ectopically in Arabidopsis under the control of the CaMV35S promoter, which increased weight of plants.
19397712	Purple rice bran contains high amounts of natural antioxidants that consist of water- and lipid-soluble compounds. Hexane-insoluble and hexane-soluble fractions were separated from 100% methanolic extract from purple rice bran (RBE-HI and RBE-HS, respectively). Total anthocyanin, tannin, flavonoid, and phenolics contents were determined in those fractions, and their antioxidant capacities were evaluated by measuring 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging capability, oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC), and iron chelating capability (ICC). RBE-HI and RBE-HS were also added to restructured patties made from minced channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) belly flap meat. Lipid oxidation, color, and/or textural properties were determined for raw and cooked patties during a 12-d storage at 4 degrees C. All antioxidant indices, except for ICC, of RBE-HI were significantly higher than those of RBE-HS due probably to its higher anthocyanin content (P < 0.05). RBE-HS showed higher ICC (P < 0.05). However, both fractions showed similar antioxidant activity in raw and cooked patties during storage, resulting from the complexity of antioxidant action in food systems. Textural properties (hardness, cohesiveness, chewiness, and springiness) in cooked patties with RBE-HS and RBE-HI were well maintained during storage, but changed significantly in the control (P < 0.05). Only RBE-HS limited microbial growth in raw patties during storage (P < 0.05), but its inhibitory effect was marginal because of low-dose and physical interactions with the matrix. L* (lightness) and a* (redness) of raw and cooked patties decreased significantly by both fractions, whereas b* (yellowness) was significantly decreased by RBE-HI and increased by RBE-HS (P < 0.05). In conclusion, we suggest that purple rice bran extract is applicable to meat products as a natural preservative, but color change in the products may limit its application.
19397713	In this study, the effects of ozonation and the addition of amino acids on rice starches were determined in terms of pasting properties using a rapid visco-analyzer. Results from viscosity analysis showed that 30-min ozone treatment on commercial rice starch exhibited the greatest swelling extent among the treatments and least retrogradation tendency. The control pure oxygen treated sample had the best cooking stability. The addition of lysine (6%) to 30-min ozonated commercial rice starch significantly reduced peak viscosity (PV), minimum viscosity (MV), and final viscosity (FV) by 918, 1024, and 1023 cP, respectively. Moreover, it decreased Ptime, resulting in the faster swelling upon heating and less rigid gel formation upon cooling. Furthermore, the presence of lysine in 30-min ozonated starch isolate (WSI) also significantly reduced PV, MV, FV, pasting time, and total setback (TSB) and produced starch gel with the best cooking stability and the least retrogradation tendency. Ozonated starch exhibited similar pasting properties to those from oxidized starches treated with low concentrations of chemical oxidizing agents. The combination of lysine with ozonation resulted in pasting properties similar to starches treated with high levels of chemical oxidizing agents. The ozonated starch could be used as a thickening agent, whereas ozonated starch with lysine might be an alternative for a highly chemically oxidized starch. Therefore, ozonation alone or the combination of ozonation and addition of lysine might be used to develop new starch ingredients with various functionalities without using typical chemical modifications.
19397717	Characteristics of the bread prepared from wheat flour blended with the flour of various kinds of newly developed rice cultivars were investigated. Qualities of the bread made from wheat flour blended with rice flour have been reported to be inferior to those from 100% wheat flour bread. To improve its qualities, we searched for the new-characteristic rice flours among the various kinds of newly developed rice cultivars to blend with the wheat flour for the bread preparation. The most suitable new characteristic rices are combination of purple waxy rice, high-amylose rice, and sugary rice. Specific volume of the bread from the combination of wheat and these 3 kinds of rice flours showed higher specific volume (3.93) compared with the traditional wheat/rice bread (3.58). We adopted the novel method, continuous progressive compression test, to measure the physical properties of the dough and the bread in addition to the sensory evaluation. As a result of the selection of the most suitable rice cultivars and blending ratio with the wheat flour, we could develop the novel wheat/rice bread, of which loaf volume, physical properties, and tastes are acceptable and resistant to firming on even 4 d after the bread preparation. To increase the ratio of rice to wheat, we tried to add a part of rice as cooked rice grains. The specific volume and qualities of the bread were maintained well although the rice content of total flour increased from 30% to 40%.
19397958	We determined the complete nucleotide sequence of the mitochondrial (mt) genome of the large-headed frog, Limnonectes bannaensis (Amphibia, Anura) by using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The entire mtDNA sequence is 16,867 bp in length with a novel case of tRNAs in vertebrates. This mt genome is characterized by three distinctive features: (1) a tandem duplication of tRNA(Met) gene is observed, (2) the tRNA(Ala), tRNA(Asn), tRNA(Cys) and tRNA(Glu) genes coded on the L-strand are absent from the L. bannaensis mtDNA, the tRNA(Cys) and tRNA(Glu) genes change into tRNA pseudogenes by reason of degenerative anticodon, and a noncoding sequence of 206 nt long (NC1) has replaced the original position of other two tRNAs, (3) besides NC1, another three noncoding spacers (NC2-4) longer than 50 bp are found in the broken WANCY region and the region NC3-ND5-NC4-ND6-PsiE-Cytb-CR of the new sequence. These features could be explained by a model of gene duplication and deletion. The new sequence data was used to assess the phylogenetic relationships among 25 species of Anura using neighbor-joining, Bayesian, and maximum likelihood methods, and the phylogenetic tree shows the rice frog Fejervarya limnocharis is closest to L. bannaensis in the study.
19397988	In this study, we analyzed the operational characteristics of a 1.2-MW rice husk gasification and power generation plant located in Changxing, Zhejiang province, China. The influences of gasification temperature, equivalence ratio (ER), feeding rate and rice husk water content on the gasification characteristics in a fluidized bed gasifier were investigated. The axial temperature profile in the dense phase of the gasifier showed that inadequate fluidization occurred inside the bed, and that the temperature was closely related to changes in ER and feeding rate. The bed temperature increased linearly with increasing ER when the feeding rate was kept constant, while a higher feeding rate corresponded to a lower bed temperature at fixed ER. The gas heating value decreased with increasing temperature, while the feeding rate had little effect. When the gasification temperature was 700-800 degrees C, the gas heating value ranged from 5450-6400 kJ/Nm(3). The water content of the rice husk had an obvious influence on the operation of the gasifier: increases in water content up to 15% resulted in increasing ER and gas yield, while water contents above 15% caused aberrant temperature fluctuations. The problems in this plant are discussed in the light of operational experience of MW-scale biomass gasification and power generation plants.
19397989	We investigated the kinetics of hot liquid water (HLW) hydrolysis over a 60-min period using a self-designed setup. The reaction was performed within the range 160-220 degrees C, under reaction conditions of 4.0 MPa, a 1:20 solid:liquid ratio (g/mL), at 500 rpm stirring speed. Xylan was chosen as a model compound for hemicelluloses, and two kinds of agricultural wastes-rice straw and palm shell-were used as typical feedstocks representative of herbaceous and woody biomasses, respectively. The hydrolysis reactions for the three kinds of materials followed a first-order sequential kinetic model, and the hydrolysis activation energies were 65.58 kJ/mol for xylan, 68.76 kJ/mol for rice straw, and 95.19 kJ/mol for palm shell. The activation energies of sugar degradation were 147.21 kJ/mol for xylan, 47.08 kJ/mol for rice straw and 79.74 kJ/mol for palm shell. These differences may be due to differences in the composition and construction of the three kinds of materials. In order to reduce the decomposition of sugars, the hydrolysis time of biomasses such as rice straw and palm shell should be strictly controlled.
19398054	We have earlier reported the zinc bioaccessibility from cereals and pulses and documented the influence of heat processing, germination and fermentation on the same. In the present study, we have assessed the influence of exogenous iron and calcium equivalent to their supplemental levels on the bioaccessibility of zinc from food grains that generally are the major components of meal in India. Bioaccessibility measurement was made by a procedure involving equilibrium dialysis during simulated gastrointestinal digestion. Exogenous iron equivalent to therapeutic levels (5mg per 10g of cereal-legume combination) significantly reduced the bioaccessibility of zinc from the food grains tested, the percent reduction being 32.4. Exogenous calcium equivalent to therapeutic levels (83mg per 10g of the cereal-legume combination) also significantly reduced (by 27.4%) the bioaccessibility of zinc from the tested food grains. The negative influence of exogenous iron and calcium was similar in both raw and cooked grains. Such negative influences on the bioaccessibility of zinc were however not seen when exogenous iron and calcium were only moderate (up to four times the intrinsic level). A study of the influence of exogenous protein on the bioaccessibility of zinc from food grains revealed that soy protein isolate added at amounts to result in a total protein content of 20% produced contrasting effects on zinc and iron bioaccessibility from cereals - rice and sorghum. While soy protein had a negative effect on iron bioaccessibility from these food grains, the same produced an enhancing effect on zinc bioaccessibility (an increase of 50% and 90% increase) from raw and cooked grain, respectively). Exogenous sodium chloride (at 5% level) potentiated the positive effect of soy protein on zinc bioaccessibility, and effectively countered its negative effect on iron bioaccessibility. The observed negative influence of supplemental iron and calcium on zinc bioaccessibility suggests that zinc supplementation may be necessary in the Indian context, whenever iron and calcium supplements are taken, to compensate for the reduction in zinc bioaccessibility.
19398239	The general public's growing mistrust of the pharmaceutical industry and its perception of the lack of adverse effects of "natural" therapy have lead to the increasing use of "alternative drugs" for hypercholesterolemia. A sixty-three year old woman presented with severe hypertransaminasemia that had developed progressively over a few weeks. For six months she had been taking Equisterol, an over-the-counter lipid-lowering product containing guggulsterol and red yeast rice extract. The product had been prescribed for hypercholesterolemia because the patient had developed hepatotoxicity while on lovastatin. Liver biopsy revealed severe lobular necroinflammatory changes with an eosinophilic infiltrate. The episode was regarded as an adverse drug reaction after exclusion of other possible causes of acute liver disease and the prompt normalization of liver function tests after Equisterol had been discontinued. Red yeast rice extract's cholesterol-lowering properties are largely due to fungal metabolites known as monacolins, one of which--monacolin K--is identical to lovastatin. The choice of an alternative medicine approach in this case subjected the patient to "re-challenge" with the official medicine agent that had previously caused mild hepatotoxicity. Physicians should keep in mind that "alternative" medicine is not always the safest alternative and sometimes it is not even "alternative."
19398510	Soils in the Fuyang valley (Zhejiang province, southeast China) have been contaminated by heavy metals. Since rice (Oryza sativa L.) is the dominant crop in the valley and because of its tendency to accumulate Cd in its grains, assessment of the human health risk resulting from consumption of locally produced rice is needed. In this study, we used a regression model to predict the average Cd content in rice grains for paddy fields. The multiple linear model for log(Cd) content in rice grains with log(HNO(3)-Cd), pH, log(clay), and log(soil organic matter, SOM) as predictors performed much better (R(2)(adj) = 66.1%) than the model with log(CaCl(2)-Cd) as a single predictor (R(2)(adj) = 28.1%). This can be explained by the sensitivity of CaCl(2)-extracted Cd for changes in redox potential and as a result of the drying of the soil samples in the laboratory. Consequently, the multiple linear model was used to predict the average Cd contents in rice grains for paddy fields, and to estimate the probability that the FAO/WHO standard of 0.2 mg kg(-1) will be exceeded. Eleven blocks had a probability smaller than 10% of exceeding this standard (safe blocks). If a lognormal distribution is assumed, 35 blocks had a probability larger than 90% (blocks at risk). Hence, risk reduction measures should be undertaken for the blocks at risk. For 27 blocks the probability was between 10 and 90%. For these blocks the uncertainty should be reduced via improvement of the regression model and/or increasing the number of sample locations within blocks.
19399245	We report molecular changes in leaves of rice plants (Oryza sativa L. - reference crop plant and grass model) exposed to ultra low-dose ionizing radiation, first using contaminated soil from the exclusion zone around Chernobyl reactor site. Results revealed induction of stress-related marker genes (Northern blot) and secondary metabolites (LC-MS/MS) in irradiated leaf segments over appropriate control. Second, employing the same in vitro model system, we replicated results of the first experiment using in-house fabricated sources of ultra low-dose gamma (gamma) rays and selected marker genes by RT-PCR. Results suggest the usefulness of the rice model in studying ultra low-dose radiation response/s.
19399494	An abundant agricultural residue, rice straw (RS) was pretreated using ammonia fiber expansion (AFEX) process with less than 3% sugar loss. Along with commercial cellulase (Spezyme CP) at 15 filter paper unit/g of glucan, the addition of Multifect Xylanase at 2.67 mg protein/g glucan and Multifect Pectinase at 3.65 mg protein/g glucan was optimized to greatly increase sugar conversion of AFEX-treated RS. During enzymatic hydrolysis even at 6% glucan loading (equivalent to 17.8% solid loading), about 80.6% of glucan and 89.6% of xylan conversions (including monomeric and oligomeric sugars) were achieved. However, oligomeric glucose and xylose accounted for 12.3% of the total glucose and 37.0% of the total xylose, respectively. Comparison among the three ethanologenic strains revealed Saccharomyces cerevisiae 424A(LNH-ST) to be a promising candidate for RS hydrolysate with maximum ethanol metabolic yield of 95.3% and ethanol volumetric productivity of 0.26 g/L/h. The final concentration of ethanol at 37.0 g/L was obtained by S. cerevisiae 424A(LNH-ST) even with low cell density inoculum. A biorefinery combining AFEX pretreatment with S. cerevisiae 424A(LNH-ST) in separate hydrolysis and fermentation could achieve 175.6 g EtOH/kg untreated rice straw at low initial cell density (0.28 g dw/L) without washing pretreated biomass, detoxification, or nutrient supplementation.
19400839	In order to clone and analyse the avirulence gene AVR-Pia from Japanese field isolates of Magnaporthe oryzae, a mutant of the M. oryzae strain Ina168 was isolated. This mutant, which was named Ina168m95-1, gained virulence towards the rice cultivar Aichi-asahi, which contains the resistance gene Pia. A DNA fragment (named PM01) that was deleted in the mutant and that co-segregated with avirulence towards Aichi-asahi was isolated. Three cosmid clones that included the regions that flanked PM01 were isolated from a genomic DNA library. One of these clones (46F3) complemented the mutant phenotype, which indicated clearly that this clone contained the avirulence gene AVR-Pia. Clone 46F3 contained insertions of transposable elements. The 46F3 insert was divided into fragments I-VI, and these were cloned individually into a hygromycin-resistant vector for the transformation of the mutant Ina168m95-1. An inoculation assay of the transformants revealed that fragment V (3.5 kb) contained AVR-Pia. By deletion analysis of fragment V, AVR-Pia was localized to an 1199-bp DNA fragment, which included a 255-bp open reading frame with weak homology to a bacterial cytochrome-c-like protein. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of this region revealed that this DNA sequence co-segregated with the AVR-Pia locus in a genetic map that was constructed using Chinese isolates.
19400948	In Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh and Oryza sativa L., a large number of genes encode proteins of unknown functions, whose characterization still remains one of the major challenges. With an aim to characterize these unknown proteins having defined features (PDFs) in plants, we have chosen to work on proteins having a cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) domain. CBS domain as such has no defined function(s) but plays a regulatory role for many enzymes and thus helps in maintaining the intracellular redox balance. Its function as sensor of cellular energy has also been widely suggested. Our analysis has identified 34 CBS domain containing proteins (CDCPs) in Arabidopsis and 59 in Oryza. In most of these proteins, CBS domain coexists with other functional domain(s), which may indicate towards their probable functions. In order to investigate the role(s) of these CDCPs, we have carried out their detailed analysis in whole genomes of Arabidopsis and Oryza, including their classification, nomenclature, sequence analysis, domain analysis, chromosomal locations, phylogenetic relationships and their expression patterns using public databases (MPSS database and microarray data). We have found that the transcript levels of some members of this family are altered in response to various stresses such as salinity, drought, cold, high temperature, UV, wounding and genotoxic stress, in both root and shoot tissues. This data would be helpful in exploring the so far obscure functions of CBS domain and CBS domain-containing proteins in plant stress responses. We have identified, classified and suggested the nomenclature of CDCPs in Arabidopsis and Oryza. A comprehensive analysis of expression patterns for CDCPs using the already existing transcriptome profiles and MPSS database reveals that a few CDCPs may have an important role in stress response/tolerance and development in plants, which needs to be validated further through functional genomics.
19401269	Epigenetic modification is essential for normal development and plays important roles in gene regulation in higher plants. Multiple factors interact to regulate the establishment and maintenance of DNA methylation in plant genome. We had previously cloned and characterized DNA methyltransferase (DNA MTase) gene homologues (OsMET1) from rice. In this present study, determination of DNA MTase activity in different cellular compartments showed that DNA MTase was enriched in nuclei and the activity was remarkably increased during imbibing dry seeds. We had optimized the purification technique for DNA MTase enzyme from shoots of 10-day-old rice seedlings using the three successive chromatographic columns. The Econo-Pac Q, the Hitrap-Heparin and the Superdex-200 columns yielded a protein fraction of a specific activity of 29, 298 and 800 purification folds, compared to the original nuclear extract, respectively. The purified protein preferred hemi-methylated DNA substrate, suggesting the maintenance activity of methylation. The native rice DNA MTase was approximately 160-170 kDa and exhibited a broad pH optimum in the range of 7.6 and 8.0. The enzyme kinetics and inhibitory effects by methyl donor analogs, base analogs, cations, and cationic amines on rice DNA MTase were examined. Global cytosine methylation status of rice genome during development and in various tissue culture systems were monitored and the results suggested that the cytosine methylation level is not directly correlated with the DNA MTase activity. The purification and characterization of rice DNA MTase enzyme are expected to enhance our understanding of this enzyme function and their possible contributions in Gramineae plant development.
19401409	Physiological properties involved in divergent cadmium (Cd) accumulation among rice genotypes were characterized using the indica cultivar 'Habataki' (high Cd in grains) and the japonica cultivar 'Sasanishiki' (low Cd in grains). Time-dependence and concentration-dependence of symplastic Cd absorption in roots were revealed not to be responsible for the different Cd accumulation between the two cultivars because root Cd uptake was not greater in the Cd-accumulating cultivar 'Habataki' compared with 'Sasanishiki'. On the other hand, rapid and greater root-to-shoot Cd translocation was observed in 'Habataki', which could be mediated by higher abilities in xylem loading of Cd and transpiration rate as a driving force. To verify whether different abilities in xylem-mediated shoot-to-root translocation generally account for the genotypic variation in shoot Cd accumulation in rice, the world rice core collection, consisting of 69 accessions which covers the genetic diversity of almost 32,000 accessions of cultivated rice, was used. The results showed strong correlation between Cd levels in xylem sap and shoots and grains among the 69 rice accessions. Overall, the results presented in this study revealed that the root-to-shoot Cd translocation via the xylem is the major and common physiological process determining the Cd accumulation level in shoots and grains of rice plants.
19401410	Rice grain filling is a process of conversion of sucrose into starch catalysed by a series of enzymes. Sucrose synthase (SUS) is considered as a key enzyme regulating this process. This study investigated the possible roles of sucrose and abscisic acid (ABA) in mediating the activity and expression of SUS protein of grains during grain filling in rice (Oryza sativa). Field-grown rice plants and detached cultured panicles were used as experimental materials. Several treatments, including spikelet thinning, leaf cutting, and applications of different concentrations of exogenous sucrose and ABA, were imposed during grain filling. A higher SUS activity was found in superior grains than in inferior grains in the earlier stage of grain filling, which was significantly and closely related to a higher grain filling rate and starch accumulation. An increase in sucrose concentration in grains as a result of different treatments increased both SUS activity and SUS protein expression in grains. An increase in ABA concentration gave similar results. Furthermore, effects of interactions between sucrose and ABA on the activity and expression of SUS protein in grains were also found. It was suggested that sucrose- and ABA-mediated rice grain filling is largely due to an increase in SUS activity and SUS protein expression.
19402042	The attainment of complete map-based sequence for rice (Oryza sativa) is clearly a major milestone for the research community. Identifying the localization of encoded proteins is the key to understanding their functional characteristics and facilitating their purification. Our proposed method, RSLpred, is an effort in this direction for genome-scale subcellular prediction of encoded rice proteins. First, the support vector machine (SVM)-based modules have been developed using traditional amino acid-, dipeptide- (i+1) and four parts-amino acid composition and achieved an overall accuracy of 81.43, 80.88 and 81.10%, respectively. Secondly, a similarity search-based module has been developed using position-specific iterated-basic local alignment search tool and achieved 68.35% accuracy. Another module developed using evolutionary information of a protein sequence extracted from position-specific scoring matrix achieved an accuracy of 87.10%. In this study, a large number of modules have been developed using various encoding schemes like higher-order dipeptide composition, N- and C-terminal, splitted amino acid composition and the hybrid information. In order to benchmark RSLpred, it was tested on an independent set of rice proteins where it outperformed widely used prediction methods such as TargetP, Wolf-PSORT, PA-SUB, Plant-Ploc and ESLpred. To assist the plant research community, an online web tool 'RSLpred' has been developed for subcellular prediction of query rice proteins, which is freely accessible at http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/rslpred.
19402417	Enhanced Cd uptake and Zn depletion in rice grains and high potential for food Cd exposure by the high-yielding hybrid cultivars of China had been addressed. A field experiment was conducted in 2006 to determine the difference in grain Cd and Zn between cultivars. Total 110 cultivars including super rice and common hybrid rice cultivars were grown on a single paddy soil (Entic Haplaquept) with a neutral reaction and low total Cd content. Grain Cd and Zn concentrations were determined with graphite atomic adsorption spectrophotometer (GFAAS) and flame atomic adsorption spectrophotometer (AAS) respectively. Wide variation of Cd content in grain was found in a range of 0.004-0.057 mg/kg, while the Zn content in a range of 10.25-30.06 mg/kg among the cultivars. Higher Cd but lower Zn concentration in grains of super rice cultivars was observed compared to the common hybrid ones. A highly significant positive linear correlation of grain Cd/Zn with grain Cd was found for super rice and common hybrid cultivars, meanwhile much higher slope for these hybrid cultivars than the reported non-hybrid cultivars was also observed. Using the limit value of the Chinese chemical guidelines for foods (MOHC and SSC, 2005), calculated potential risk of food Cd exposure with "Zn hungry" through diet intake was prominent with all the studied 110 hybrid rice cultivars, possessing high potential health problems for rice production in South China using the super rice cultivars. Breeding of genotypes of rice cultivars with low grain Cd and low Cd/Zn ratio is needed for rice production in acidic red soils where Cd bioavailability is prevalently high.
19402475	Various water management regimes, such as continuous flooding (F), flooding-midseason drainage-reflooding (F-D-F), and flooding-midseason drainage-reflooding-moist intermittent irrigation but without water logging (F-D-F-M), are currently practiced in paddy rice production in China. These water regimes have incurred a sensitive change in direct N2O emission from rice paddy fields. In order to establish statistical models quantifying the country-specific emission factor and background emission of N2O in paddy fields during the rice growing season, we compiled and statistically analyzed field data on 71 N2O measurements from 17 field studies that were published in peer-reviewed Chinese and English journals. For each field study, we documented the seasonal N2O emission, the type and amount of organic amendment and fertilizer nitrogen application, the water management regime, the drainage duration, the field location and cropping season. Seasonal total N2O was, on average, equivalent to 0.02% of the nitrogen applied in the continuous flooding rice paddies. Under the water regime of F-D-F or the F-D-F-M, seasonal N2O emissions increased with N fertilizer applied in rice paddies. Applying an Ordinary Least Square (OLS) linear regression model resulted in an emission factor of 0.42% for N2O, and in unpronounced background N2 O emission under the water regime of F-D-F. Under the F-D-F-M water regime, N2O emission factor and N2O-N background emission were estimated to be 0.73% and 0.79 kg x hm(-2) during the paddy rice growing season, respectively. After considering three different water regimes in rice paddies in China, the emission factor of N for N2O and N2O-N background emission averaged 0.54% and 0.43 kg x hm(-2). The results of this study suggest that paddy rice relative to upland crop production could have contributed to mitigating N2O emissions from agriculture in China. The emission factor of N for N2O and its background emissions can be directly adopted to develop national inventory of N2O emissions from paddy fields during the rice growing season in China.
19402875	* Witchweeds (Striga spp.) are major agricultural pests that infest important crops in sub-Saharan Africa. Striga hermonthica parasitizes gramineous plants including sorghum, maize and rice, but not dicots. To understand host recognition mechanisms of S. hermonthica, we investigated its interaction with nonhost dicots including Arabidopsis, cowpea, Lotus japonicus and Phtheirospermum japonicum, a hemiparasite. * Striga hermonthica seeds were pretreated with strigol, a germination stimulant, and allowed to germinate next to a potential host root. We characterized the histological phenotype of the interactions. Moreover, we monitored the infection of a host rice and the nonhost P. japonicum by S. hermonthica using time-lapse photography. * All nonhost dicots tested did not support S. hermonthica shoot growth beyond the six leaf-pair stage; however, the arrest of parasite development occurred at different stages. Striga hermonthica haustoria were able to reach the steles of Arabidopsis and cowpea, while L. japonicus blocked S. hermonthica infection in the root cortex. Striga hermonthica often failed to penetrate P. japonicum roots. * Our analysis indicates that there are at least four types of incompatible interaction to S. hermonthica. Combinations of these different incompatibility mechanisms contribute to the total resistance to S. hermonthica.
1940328	Mid-stream urine was randomly collected from 248 subjects in Adim. Blood and protein concentrations were determined semi-quantitatively using Combi-7 reagent strips. The urine samples were then processed and any ova of Schistosoma haematobium present were counted per 10 ml urine. Fresh stool samples were also randomly collected, processed and examined for S. masoni and other helminthic ova. The prevalence of S. haematobium in the area was 43.5% and this was found to be age-related but not sex-related. Mean egg count was 137.2 per 10 ml urine. Intense haematuria of 250 ery/microliters and proteinuria of 500 mg/dl accompanied the high egg counts. The stool examination showed no cases of Manson's schistosomiasis but polyparasitism with other intestinal helminths was common particularly among children under 10 years old. This is the first report of urinary schistosomiasis in this area and the high prevalence rate is consistent with the rice farming occupation of the natives of the area. The sensitive nature and the case of application of the reagent strips in determining heavy infections by measuring haematuria and proteinuria is once again confirmed.
19403963	This paper attempts to find a strategy to provide year-round irrigation for cultivating three crops per year in the southern plains of the country taking a case study of the Babai basin. Despite having enough flows during the summer for growing rice in total 27,000 ha area, the dry season flows of the Babai river can irrigate only 6,300 ha in winter and 4,000 ha in spring limiting the cropping intensity to 138.50%. It is proposed to irrigate the 7,500 ha southern dry area at the right bank bringing water from a large snow-fed river: the Karnali. Water balance study of the three irrigation regions to be irrigated from the Babai source preserving their existing water rights showed that the year-round irrigation at the west with the proposed arrangement will fall short of only 13.9 million m(3) water volume. At the east side, the head reach area and the tail portion will fall short of 19.4 and 66.4 million m(3) of water to insure a cropping intensity of 250%. The deficits can be fulfilled by means of capturing the excess river water of rainy season in local reservoirs and by making conjunctive use of groundwater. The proposed solution is financially, environmentally and socially viable being a cost effective, user friendly and should be the linchpin towards attaining a sustainable year-round irrigation in the region.
19404764	Is there any risk that the threshold for admixture of genetically modified seeds in the harvest of a conventional cultivar, 0.9% in Europe, will be exceeded in the case of inbreeder crops? Using herbicide-resistant foxtail millet, Setaria italica, as a model of a preferentially autogamous crop, such as wheat and rice, field experiments show that genotype admixture due to pollen flow between adjacent fields is about 0.03% on average for the 10 adjacent meters, and 10 times less in the next 20-m lane. In the case of a maternally inherited resistance gene, the admixture rate is at least 100 times lower. Recessive herbicide resistance has also been tested but would be efficient only if the agreed coexistence rules were based on phenotype detection.
19405028	Experiments were conducted to identify the differentially expressed proteins in rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants after treatment with the glycoprotein elicitor CSB I, purified from ZC(13), a race of the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. The interactions of two near isogenic lines of rice, C101A51 and CO39, with ZC(13) resulted in completely incompatible and compatible types, respectively. Proteins were extracted from rice leaves at 12 and 24 h after treatment with CSB I. Temporal changes in total proteins were examined using 2-DE. Among more than 900 protein spots reproducibly detected on each gel, 11 were up-regulated, three were down-regulated and seven were newly induced during, at a minimum, one time point. Twenty-one differentially expressed proteins were identified by linear ion trap quadrupole (LTQ)-MS/MS. The identified proteins were classified into six categories based on their putative function reported: (i) defense proteins (PR-10a, PR-5 and putative salt-induced protein), (ii) signal transduction (nucleoside diphosphate kinase and putative profilin), (iii) ROS (Mn-SOD, Cu/Zn-SOD, GST and CAT), (iv) programmed cell death (translationally controlled tumor protein), (v) molecule biosynthesis (putative ribosomal protein S5, putative ribosomal protein L12, putative translational elongation factor Tu and putative chaperonin 21 precursor) and (vi) metabolism (putative fructose-bisphosphate aldolase class-I, putative malate dehydrogenase, cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase, putative acid phosphatase, putative transketolase1 and gamma hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase-like protein). All of these proteins (except Cu/Zn-SOD, putative acid phosphatase and translationally controlled tumor protein) were induced faster and to a higher degree in C101A51 than in CO39. These data suggest that the incompatible rice line may possess a more sensitive recognition system that can identify and react to specific chemical, biological or physical triggers in a more efficient manner, thus eliciting an early and fast defense response.
19405033	Engineering and breeding resistant plant varieties are the most effective and environmentally friendly ways to control agricultural pests and improve crop performance. However, the mechanism of plant resistance to pests is poorly understood. Here we used a quantitative mass-spectrometry-based proteomic approach for comparative analysis of expression profiles of proteins in rice leaf sheaths in responses to infestation by the brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stål, BPH), which is a serious rice crop pest. Proteins involved in multiple pathways showed significant changes in expression in response to BPH feeding, including jasmonic acid synthesis proteins, oxidative stress response proteins, beta-glucanases, protein; kinases, clathrin protein, glycine cleavage system protein, photosynthesis proteins and aquaporins. The corresponding genes of eight important proteins were further analyzed by quantitative RT-PCR. Proteomic and transcript responses that were related to wounding, oxidative and pathogen stress overlapped considerably between BPH-resistant (carrying the resistance gene BPH15) and susceptible rice lines. In contrast, proteins and genes related to callose metabolism remained unchanged and glycine cleavage system protein was up-regulated in the BPH-resistant lines, indicating that they have an efficient and specific defense mechanism. Our results provide new information about the interaction between rice and the BPH.
19406778	A strictly anaerobic, mesophilic, cellulolytic bacterial strain, designated CDT-1(T), was isolated from rice-straw residue from a methanogenic reactor treating waste from cattle farms. The isolation was performed using enrichment culture with filter paper as a substrate. Cells stained Gram-negative, but reacted Gram-positively in the KOH test. Cells were slightly curved rods and were motile by means of peritrichous flagella. The strain produced yellow pigment when grown on filter-paper fragments. Although spore formation was not confirmed microscopically, thermotolerant cells were produced when the strain was grown on filter paper. The optimum temperature for growth was 33 degrees C and the optimum pH was 7.4. Oxidase, catalase and nitrate-reducing activities were absent. The strain utilized xylose, fructose, glucose, cellobiose, xylooligosaccharide, cellulose (filter-paper fragments and ball-milled filter paper) and xylan. The major fermentation products were acetate, ethanol, H(2) and CO(2). The major cellular fatty acids were iso-C(15 : 0), iso-C(14 : 0) and C(16 : 0) DMA. The cell-wall peptidoglycan contained meso-diaminopimelic acid as the diagnostic diamino acid. The genomic DNA G+C content was 40.7 mol%. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities, strain CDT-1(T) could be placed in cluster III of the genus Clostridium, being closely related to type strains of Clostridium hungatei (96.6 % sequence similarity), Clostridium termitidis (96.2 %) and Clostridium papyrosolvens (96.1 %). On the basis of the cellular, physiological and phylogenetic differences between CDT-1(T) and its close relatives, this strain represents a novel species of the genus Clostridium, for which the name Clostridium sufflavum sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is CDT-1(T) (=JCM 14807(T)=DSM 19573(T)).
19406804	A novel strain, designated Jip 10(T), isolated from dried rice straw, was characterized by a polyphasic approach to clarify its taxonomic position. The isolate was Gram-negative, facultatively aerobic, heterotrophic, non-motile, non-spore-forming and rod-shaped. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that the isolate clustered with the genus Mucilaginibacter in the phylum Bacteroidetes. 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities between strain Jip 10(T) and the type strains of Mucilaginibacter gracilis and Mucilaginibacter paludis were 93.7 and 93.6 %, respectively. The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 48.1 mol%. Chemotaxonomic data [major menaquinone MK-7 and major fatty acids iso-C(15 : 0), iso-C(17 : 0) 3-OH and summed feature 3 (iso-C(15 : 0) 2-OH and/or C(16 : 1)omega7c)] supported the affiliation of strain Jip 10(T) to the genus Mucilaginibacter. However, the results of physiological and biochemical tests allowed phenotypic differentiation of strain Jip 10(T) from other Mucilaginibacter species with validly published names. Therefore, strain Jip 10(T) (=KCTC 12639(T) =LMG 23488(T)) was classified in the genus Mucilaginibacter as the type strain of a novel species, for which the name Mucilaginibacter daejeonensis sp. nov. is proposed.
19407376	The bacterial beta-ketoacyl-ACP synthase III (KASIII) encoded by the gene fabH (Xoo4209) from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, a plant pathogen, is an important enzyme in the elongation steps of fatty-acid biosynthesis. It is expected to be one of the enzymes responsible for bacterial blight (BB), a serious disease that results in huge production losses of rice. As it represents an important target for the development of new antibacterial drugs against BB, determination of the crystal structure of the KAS III enzyme is essential in order to understand its reaction mechanism. In order to analyze the structure and function of KAS III, the fabH (Xoo4209) gene was cloned and the enzyme was expressed and purified. The KASIII crystal diffracted to 2.05 A resolution and belonged to the orthorhombic space group P2(1)2(1)2, with unit-cell parameters a = 69.8, b = 79.5, c = 62.3 A. The unit-cell volume of the crystal is compatible with the presence of a single monomer in the asymmetric unit, with a corresponding Matthews coefficient V(M) of 2.27 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent content of 45.8%.
19407922	Automated and manual annotation of the ATP binding cassette (ABC) superfamily in the Phytophthora ramorum and P. sojae genomes has identified 135 and 136 members, respectively, indicating that this family is comparable in size to the Arabidopsis thaliana and rice genomes, and significantly larger than that of two fungal pathogens, Fusarium graminearum and Magnaporthe grisea. The high level of synteny between these oomycete genomes extends to the ABC superfamily, where 108 orthologues were identified by phylogenetic analysis. The largest subfamilies include those most often associated with multidrug resistance. The P. ramorum genome contains 22 multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) genes and 49 pleiotropic drug resistance (PDR) genes, while P. sojae contains 20 MRP and 49 PDR genes. Tandem duplication events in the last common ancestor appear to account for much of the expansion of these subfamilies. Recent duplication events in the PDR and ABCG families in both the P. ramorum and the P. sojae genomes indicate that selective expansion of ABC transporters may still be occurring. In other kingdoms, subfamilies define both domain arrangements and proteins having a common phylogenetic origin, but this is not the case for several subfamilies in oomycetes. At least one ABCG type transporter is derived from a PDR transporter, while transporters in the ABCB-half family cluster with transporters from bacterial, plant, and metazoan genomes. Additional examples of transporters that appear to be derived from horizontal transfer events from bacterial genomes include components of transporters associated with iron uptake and DNA repair.
19407983	A recently established rice breeding program in low latitudes aims to develop varieties with extremely long basic vegetative growth (BVG) periods and weak photoperiod sensitivities. The Taiwanese japonica variety Taichung 65 (T65) harbors a recessive allele ef1 at the Ef1 (Early flowering 1) locus, thereby exhibiting an extremely long BVG period. The previous reported functional allele Ehd1 (Early heading date 1), located on chromosome 10, encodes a B-type response regulator, thereby shortening the BVG period, whereas its nonfunctional allele ehd1 greatly prolongs the BVG period. A conventional analysis using F(2) and F(3) populations and a subsequent CAPS analysis based on the amino acid sequences of Ehd1 and ehd1 showed that Ef1 and Ehd1 were at the same locus. The CAPS analysis also indicated that the Taiwanese japonica varieties with extremely long BVG periods all harbor ef1, but that ef1 does not exist among indica and japonica varieties in the low latitudes. Since ef1 has not been found in any japonica varieties outside Taiwan, this allele might have originated in Taiwan. Sequence analysis revealed that the mutant allele ef1-h, which prolongs the BVG period even more than ef1 does, harbors an mPing insertion in exon 2, which causes the complete loss of gene function. Our results indicate that both ef1 or ef1-h alleles can be used as new gene sources in developing rice varieties with extremely long BVG periods for low latitudes.
19409457	Aspartic proteases constitute a large family in eukaryotes, which play fundamental roles in protein processing, maturation and degradation. In this study, we identified 96 OsAP genes in rice (Oryza sativa L.), the model plant for monocots, by a reiterative database search. The analysis of the complete set of OsAP genes is presented, including chromosomal location, phylogenetic relationships, classification and gene structure. Moreover, a comprehensive expression analysis of OsAP family genes was performed using 24 tissues during the plant life cycle of two rice cultivars. Sixty-six OsAP genes were found to be expressed in at least one of the examined developmental stages, which were divided into 3 classes based on their transcript levels. OsAP genes were also found to be differentially up- or down-regulated in rice seedlings in response to treatments with phytohormones, as well as in plumules/radicles under light/dark conditions. The comprehensive annotation and expression profiling undertaken in this research add to our understanding of OsAP family genes in rice growth and development. Our results also provide a basis for selection of candidate genes for functional validation in future studies.
1941019	Physical activity and dietary habits were compared between 80 men with adenomatous polyps of the sigmoid colon and 1148 men with normal colonoscopy among male retiring self-defense officials. Physical activity as expressed in terms of time spent doing strenuous activities during leisure time was inversely related to the risk of adenomatous polyps. Controlling for rank, smoking, alcohol and body mass index (BMI), odds ratios for the categories of 0, 1-59, 60-119 and greater than or equal to 120 minutes per week were 1.0, 0.88, 0.70 and 0.44, respectively (trend p = 0.015). Among a limited range of foods and beverages, the consumption of rice, green tea and instant coffee tended to be associated with a decreased risk of adenomatous polyps. Although the associations observed with dietary habits still need to be substantiated, the findings on physical activity lend further evidence to the hypothesis that physical activity may be protective in the development of colon cancer.
19410334	Coleoptiles of rice seeds that germinate under anoxia usually elongate to a length far exceeding the elongation that takes place under aerobic conditions. It has been suggested that expansins play a role in this process, but studies examining correlations between transcript levels of expansin genes and anoxic growth of rice coleoptiles are limited. In this study, we used real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) analysis to develop a picture of expansin gene expression (seven alpha- and eight beta-expansins) (EXPA and EXPB) in two rice cultivars showing long (cv. Arborio Precoce) or short (cv. Lamone) coleoptiles when germinated under anoxia. Our qPCR analysis suggested up-regulation occurred for several expansin genes in anoxic coleoptiles in both rice cultivars. However, we found no correlation between transcript levels and the ability to elongate the coleoptile under anoxia.
19410335	The rice Dart/nDart transposon system belongs to the hAT superfamily of class II transposons. The nonautonomous element nDart is active in intact rice plants. The autonomous element Dart was identified based on sequence similarity to nDart. Because the rice genome sequence of Nipponbare contains at least 51 Dart elements, it is not clear whether Dart elements are expressed or whether they are transposable. This study characterized for the expression of the predicted ORF of Dart. RNA blotting analysis revealed three transcripts of different lengths. Only the longest transcript (2.5kb) corresponding to the predicted ORF of the Dart element produced a functional TPase. The other transcripts had a frame-shift generating a premature stop codon through alternative splicing. These transcripts were expressed from either of two potentially autonomous Dart elements, Dart01/28 and Dart02. The frequency of alternative splicing differed between the transcripts of the derivative elements. More than 90% of the transcripts from Dart02 were alternatively spliced, compared with only 3% from Dart01/28. The element-specific expression and alternative splicing may control the transposition of nDart.
19410532	Muscle trauma mainly results from sporting activities and accounts for 10 to 55% of sports injuries. However, information on optimal muscle trauma management is scarce. The present study sought to assess the initial treatment of muscle injury in sportspeople, evaluate rehabilitation programs and observe the impact on healing. We included consecutive patients consulting for severe muscle pain with a physician at the Questel Sports Medicine Surgery in the city of Brest (western France). The study examined the circumstances of the injury, possible antecedents and the initial treatment (with the RICE protocol). After clinical and ultrasound examinations, each patient was referred to the physiotherapist of his/her choice with an identical recovery program (muscle strengthening exercises, cycling on an exercise bike and guidance on resuming sport). The patient was subsequently interviewed by phone at two time points: four months after the injury, to ascertain the date of resumption of gentle sporting activity (e.g., jogging) or return to the pre-injury sporting level (i.e., full recovery) and to establish whether the patient and the physiotherapist had respectively complied with the prescribed treatment and 15 months after the injury, to investigate any re-injury and/or any other muscle injuries. The patients were classified into two groups: those who were able to resume full sporting activity within 40 days (minor muscle injuries: Group 1) and those who were also able to resume full sporting activity but only after more than 40 days (major muscle injuries: Group 2). We, then, compared the two groups in order to identify factors potentially related to recovery. Ninety-five cases were included in the study; this corresponded to 93 patients, two of whom had two different injuries each. The RICE protocol: sport was immediately discontinued in 90 cases and shortly afterwards in five cases. Ice was applied in 57 cases (60%) and compression was applied in 17 cases (17.8%). There were 34 patients (35.8%) in Group 1, with an average return to gentle sporting activity (jogging) on day 11 post-injury and full resumption of their sport on day 23. There were 61 cases (64.2%) in Group 2, with an average return to jogging on day 39 and full resumption of their sport on day 69. Compliance with the prescription: rehabilitation was performed in only 62 cases (64.5%), with no major difference between the two groups. In terms of the physiotherapist's compliance with the prescription, 40 of the 62 patients did some weight training, 29 performed cycling and 58 were given advice on the resumption of sporting activity. Resumption of sport: in both groups, the duration of incapacity did not depend on whether rehabilitation had been performed or not. The second phone interview yielded a total of 84 replies (88%): seven patients (8%) had suffered re-injury in the same muscle group (no difference between Groups 1 and 2) and 22 patients (26%) had incurred injuries in another muscle group. The RICE protocol might give better results if compression were to be used more extensively. In terms of rehabilitation, therapeutic compliance is rather weak and physiotherapists do not fully comply with physician's prescription. However, for both minor and major injuries, rehabilitation (to the extent that it was implemented by the physiotherapists in the present study) did not lead to quicker recovery.
19410627	Monascus purpureus MTCC 410-fermented rice (red mould rice) is one of the food supplements to lower blood-lipid levels and monacolins have been proven to be the main active constituents in red mould rice (RMR). In this study, we have assessed the safety of RMR by conducting toxicological studies in albino rats. Acute and sub-chronic toxicity studies were conducted on both sexes of albino rats. Feeding acute doses of RMR at 0.5, 1.0, 2.5 and 5.0 g/kg body weight to rats did not cause any symptoms of toxicity or mortality. Similarly, dietary feeding of RMR at 2.0%, 4.0%, 8.0% and 12.0% level (w/w) for 14 weeks did not produce any significant changes in food intake or gain in body weight of the experimental rats compared to control rats. There were no significant differences in the relative weight of vital organs, hematological parameters, macroscopic and microscopic changes in vital organs and serum clinical enzyme levels between the experimental and control groups. Moreover, the rats fed with RMR showed a significant reduction in cholesterol and triglyceride levels in both serum and liver. The results showed that toxicity studies with RMR of M. purpureus did not cause any toxic effects in albino rats.
19411659	Flavonoids normally accumulate in plants as O-glycosylated derivatives, but several species, including major cereal crops, predominantly synthesize flavone-C-glycosides, which are stable to hydrolysis and are biologically active both in planta and as dietary components. An enzyme (OsCGT) catalyzing the UDP-glucose-dependent C-glucosylation of 2-hydroxyflavanone precursors of flavonoids has been identified and cloned from rice (Oryza sativa ssp. indica), with a similar protein characterized in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). OsCGT is a 49-kDa family 1 glycosyltransferase related to known O-glucosyltransferases. The recombinant enzyme C-glucosylated 2-hydroxyflavanones but had negligible O-glucosyltransferase activity with flavonoid acceptors. Enzyme chemistry studies suggested that OsCGT preferentially C-glucosylated the dibenzoylmethane tautomers formed in equilibrium with 2-hydroxyflavanones. The resulting 2-hydroxyflavanone-C-glucosides were unstable and spontaneously dehydrated in vitro to yield a mixture of 6C- and 8C-glucosyl derivatives of the respective flavones. In contrast, in planta, only the respective 6C-glucosides accumulated. Consistent with this selectivity in glycosylation product, a dehydratase activity that preferentially converted 2-hydroxyflavanone-C-glucosides to the corresponding flavone-6C-glucosides was identified in both rice and wheat. Our results demonstrate that cereal crops synthesize C-glucosylated flavones through the concerted action of a CGT and dehydratase acting on activated 2-hydroxyflavanones, as an alternative means of generating flavonoid metabolites.
19412831	We investigated the glycemic index (GI) and the insulinemic index (II) of cake made from whole soy powder (SBC) and the suppressive effects of SBC on the postprandial blood glucose and insulin by other carbohydrate foods. Furthermore, breath hydrogen excretion was simultaneously investigated. Twenty subjects were given 114 g SBC, 144 g cooked paddy-rice, and 60 g SBC with 144 g cooked paddy-rice in random order using a within-subject, repeated-measures design. Blood and end-expiratory gas were collected at the indicated periods after ingestion. The GI and the II of SBC were 22+/-6 and 48+/-29, respectively. The elevation of blood glucose by cooked paddy-rice was significantly suppressed by the addition of 60 g SBC, although the insulin secretion did not decrease. Breath hydrogen excretion by the addition of SBC to 144 g cooked paddy-rice was not significantly increased in comparison with cooked paddy-rice alone. SBC was of low GI and low II, but the postprandial insulin secretion in response to cooked paddy-rice was not suppressed.
19412846	Quantification of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polychlorinated-dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) in waste oil by high resolution gas chromatography-high resolution mass spectrometry (HRGC-HRMS), and profiling of their congeners and homologues were described. Waste oil packed in drums which were estimated to have been exposed to the weather for more than 20 years were found by the illegal dumping patrol in 2006. PCBs were detected in all of 12 waste oil samples examined, with concentrations in the range of 0.0032-22 microg/g. The main pollution sources of the waste oil samples were presumed to be KC300, KC400 and/or KC500 by principal component analysis (PCA) and a chemical mass balance (CMB) method. The concentrations of PCDDs and PCDFs (PCDD/DFs) in the illegally dumped waste oil ranged from 1.1 to 360 pg/g and 1.3 to 110 pg/g, respectively. The ratios of toxicity equivalency quantity (TEQ) of PCDDs and PCDFs to Co-PCBs were lower than those of Yusho rice oil. Consequently, it was determined that even after 20 years of exposure to the weather, no PCB denaturation occurred. However, it was confirmed that low-chlorinated biphenyls in corroded drums would have evaporated into the atmosphere.
19415114	Calculating the metabolome size of species by genome-guided reconstruction of metabolic pathways misses all products from orphan genes and from enzymes lacking annotated genes. Hence, metabolomes need to be determined experimentally. Annotations by mass spectrometry would greatly benefit if peer-reviewed public databases could be queried to compile target lists of structures that already have been reported for a given species. We detail current obstacles to compile such a knowledge base of metabolites. As an example, results are presented for rice. Two rice (oryza sativa) subspecies have been fully sequenced, oryza japonica and oryza indica. Several major small molecule databases were compared for listing known rice metabolites comprising PubChem, Chemical Abstracts, Beilstein, Patent databases, Dictionary of Natural Products, SetupX/BinBase, KNApSAcK DB, and finally those databases which were obtained by computational approaches, i.e. RiceCyc, KEGG, and Reactome. More than 5,000 small molecules were retrieved when searching these databases. Unfortunately, most often, genuine rice metabolites were retrieved together with non-metabolite database entries such as pesticides. Overlaps from database compound lists were very difficult to compare because structures were either not encoded in machine-readable format or because compound identifiers were not cross-referenced between databases. We conclude that present databases are not capable of comprehensively retrieving all known metabolites. Metabolome lists are yet mostly restricted to genome-reconstructed pathways. We suggest that providers of (bio)chemical databases enrich their database identifiers to PubChem IDs and InChIKeys to enable cross-database queries. In addition, peer-reviewed journal repositories need to mandate submission of structures and spectra in machine readable format to allow automated semantic annotation of articles containing chemical structures. Such changes in publication standards and database architectures will enable researchers to compile current knowledge about the metabolome of species, which may extend to derived information such as spectral libraries, organ-specific metabolites, and cross-study comparisons.
19415284	Genetic instability could be provoked as an unintended consequence of genetic engineering in plants. Here, we report that the rice endogenous long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposon Tos17 was transpositionally activated only in transgenic calli and their regenerated plants produced by biolistic transformation in rice (Oryza sativa L.) ssp. japonica cv. Matsumae. Moreover, the transpositional activity of Tos17 was sustained after plant regeneration in the T0 generation, and produced new germinal insertions. In contrast, the element remained totally quiescent in calli and regenerated plants from tissue culture of this genotype. Nonetheless, transcriptional induction and cytosine demethylation of Tos17 were found to have occurred with no significant difference in both kinds of calli, tissue culture alone and transgenic. This suggests that callus culture is likely to have played an important role in destabilizing Tos17 in the direction towards transpositional activation, but that biolistic transformation is the direct causal factor.
19415325	In proteins, methionine residues are especially sensitive to oxidation, leading to the formation of S- and R-methionine sulfoxide diastereoisomers, and these two methionine sulfoxides can be specifically reversed by two types of methionine sulfoxide reductases (MSRs), MSRA and MSRB. Previously, we have identified a gene encoding a putative MSR from NaCl-treated roots of Brazilian upland rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. IAPAR 9) via subtractive suppression hybridization (Wu et al. in Plant Sci 168:847-853, 2005). Blast database analysis indicated that at least four MSRA and three MSRB orthologs exist in rice, and two of them, OsMSRA4.1 and OsMSRB1.1, were selected for further functional analysis. Expression analysis showed that both OsMSRA4.1 and OsMSRB1.1 are constitutively expressed in all organs and can be induced by various stress conditions. Subcellular localization and in vitro activity assay revealed that both OsMSR proteins are targeted to the chloroplast and have MSR activity. Overexpression of either OsMSRA4.1 or OsMSRB1.1 in yeast enhanced cellular resistance to oxidative stress. In addition, OsMSRA4.1-overexpressing transgenic rice plants also showed enhanced viability under salt treatment. Our results provide genetic evidence of the involvement of OsMSRs in the plant stress responses.
19417056	Ethylene regulates multiple aspects of plant growth and development in dicotyledonous plants; however, its roles in monocotyledonous plants are poorly known. Here, we characterized a subfamily II ethylene receptor, ETHYLENE RESPONSE2 (ETR2), in rice (Oryza sativa). The ETR2 receptor with a diverged His kinase domain is a Ser/Thr kinase, but not a His kinase, and can phosphorylate its receiver domain. Mutation of the N box of the kinase domain abolished the kinase activity of ETR2. Overexpression of ETR2 in transgenic rice plants reduced ethylene sensitivity and delayed floral transition. Conversely, RNA interference (RNAi) plants exhibited early flowering and the ETR2 T-DNA insertion mutant etr2 showed enhanced ethylene sensitivity and early flowering. The effective panicles and seed-setting rate were reduced in the ETR2-overexpressing plants, while thousand-seed weight was substantially enhanced in both the ETR2-RNAi plants and the etr2 mutant compared with controls. Starch granules accumulated in the internodes of the ETR2-overexpressing plants, but not in the etr2 mutant. The GIGANTEA and TERMINAL FLOWER1/CENTRORADIALIS homolog (RCN1) that cause delayed flowering were upregulated in ETR2-overexpressing plants but downregulated in the etr2 mutant. Conversely, the alpha-amylase gene RAmy3D was suppressed in ETR2-overexpressing plants but enhanced in the etr2 mutant. Thus, ETR2 may delay flowering and cause starch accumulation in stems by regulating downstream genes.
19417548
19417775	The Arabidopsis SDS (SOLO DANCERS) and RCK (ROCK-N-ROLLERS) genes are important for male meiosis, but it is still unknown whether they represent conserved functions in plants. We have performed phylogenetic analyses of SDS and RCK and their respective homologs, and identified their putative orthologs in poplar and rice. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis indicated that rice SDS and RCK are expressed preferentially in young flowers, and transgenic RNAi rice lines with reduced expression of these genes exhibited normal vegetative development, but showed significantly reduced fertility with partially sterile flowers and defective pollens. SDS deficiency also caused a decrease in pollen amounts. Further cytological examination of male meiocytes revealed that the SDS deficiency led to defects in homolog interaction and bivalent formation in meiotic prophase I, and RCK deficiency resulted in defective meiotic crossover formation. These results indicate that rice SDS and RCK genes have similar functions to their Arabidopsis orthologs. Because rice and Arabidopsis, respectively, are members of monocots and eudicots, two largest groups of flowering plants, our results suggest that the functions of SDS and RCK are likely conserved in flowering plants.
19418231	We analyzed the response of rice to Magnaporthe oryzae infection using two mutant strains deficient in Mgb1 and Mst12, which are essential for the development of appresoria and penetration pegs. Both mutants induced the much lower levels of accumulation of phytoalexins than wild-type, suggesting that the massive production of phytoalexins requires the fungal invasion of rice cells. Intense accumulation of H2O2 in a single whole cell also required fungal penetration. Microarray analysis of rice gene expression revealed mutant-specific gene expression, indicating that signal exchange between rice and M. oryzae commence before fungal penetration of the rice cell. In situ detection of mRNAs for peroxidase and beta-1,3-glucanase showed that expression of these genes also occurs after penetration as observed for phytoalexin production.
19418327	The glycaemic index (GI) ranks foods according to their acute glycaemic impact and is used in planning meals for patients invoking glycaemic control through diet. Kurakkan (Eleusine coracana) flour roti, rice flour roti, atta flour roti, boiled breadfruit (Artocarpus altilis/Artocarpus communis) and boiled legumes (mungbean, cowpea and chickpea) were categorized as low-GI foods (relative to white bread; Prima Crust Top), and the corresponding GI (+/- standard error of the mean) values were 70+/-8, 69+/-7, 67+/-9, 64+/-7, 57+/-6, 49+/-8 and 29+/-5, respectively. Kurakkan flour pittu and wheat flour roti were classified as medium-GI foods with GI values of 85+/-6 and 72+/-6. Hoppers, rice flour pittu, wheat flour pittu and Olu-milk rice (seeds of Nymphaea lotus) were categorized as high-GI foods, and the corresponding GI (+/- standard error of the mean) values were 120+/-8, 103+/-7, 101+/-8 and 91+/-8, respectively. The GI values significantly (P<0.01) and negatively correlated with the insoluble dietary fibre (rho = - 0.780), soluble dietary fibre (rho = - 0.712) and protein (rho = - 0.738) contents in grams per 100 g digestible starch containing foods.
19418443	The possibility of gene flow from transgenic crops to wild relatives may be affected by reproductive capacity between them. The potential gene flow from two transgenic rice lines containing the bar gene to five accessions of weedy rice (WR1-WR5) was determined through examination of reproductive compatibility under controlled pollination. The pollen grain germination of two transgenic rice lines on the stigma of all weedy rice, rice pollen tube growth down the style and entry into the weedy rice ovary were similar to self-pollination in weedy rice. However, delayed double fertilisation and embryo abortion in crosses between WR2 and Y0003 were observed. Seed sets between transgenic rice lines and weedy rice varied from 8 to 76%. Although repeated pollination increased seed set significantly, the rank of the seed set between the weedy rice accessions and rice lines was not changed. The germination rates of F(1) hybrids were similar or greater compared with respective females. All F(1) plants expressed glufosinate resistance in the presence of glufosinate selection pressure. The frequency of gene flow between different weedy rice accessions and transgenic herbicide-resistant rice may differ owing to different reproductive compatibility. This result suggests that, when wild relatives are selected as experimental materials for assessing the gene flow of transgenic rice, it is necessary to address the compatibility between transgenic rice and wild relatives.
1941936	Ixodid ticks removed from hosts and from vegetation during March-November 1987 at sites in coastal Virginia and North Carolina were examined for Borrelia burgdorferi. B. burgdorferi was evident in nine (22%) Ixodes cookei Packard removed from rice rats (Oryzomys palustris), a white-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus), and raccoons (Procyon lotor); four (6%) Amblyomma americanum (L.) removed from raccoons; and two (3%) Dermacentor variabilis (Say) removed from a raccoon and a rice rat. B. burgdorferi was also detected in Ixodes dentatus Marx removed from a brown thrasher (Toxostoma rufum), a Carolina wren (Thryothoros ludovicianus), and a towhee (Piplio erythrophthalamus); and in Haemaphysalis leporispalustris (Packard) removed from a brown thrasher and a white-throated sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis) netted at Kiptopeke Beach, Va. Two Ixodes dammini Spielman, Clifford, Piesman & Corwin were collected on Parramore Island; one specimen was examined for spirochetes, and it was infected with B. burgdorferi. No spirochetes were detected in host-seeking A. americanum and Amblyomma maculatum Koch removed from vegetation. The plasma of one P. leucopus and sera obtained from two P. lotor contained antibodies to B. burgdorferi. All infected ticks and the seroreactive hosts were collected from the Eastern Shore of Virginia.
19419536	High-density short oligonucleotide microarrays are useful tools for studying biodiversity, because they can be used to investigate both nucleotide and expression polymorphisms. However, when different strains (or species) produce different signal intensities after mRNA hybridization, it is not easy to determine whether the signal intensities were affected by nucleotide or expression polymorphisms. To overcome this difficulty, nucleotide and expression polymorphisms are currently examined separately. We have developed SNEP, a new method that allows simultaneous detection of both nucleotide and expression polymorphisms. SNEP involves a robust statistical procedure based on the idea that a nucleotide polymorphism observed at the probe level can be regarded as an outlier, because the nucleotide polymorphism can reduce the hybridization signal intensity. To investigate the performance of SNEP, we used three species: barley, rice and mice. In addition to the publicly available barley data, we obtained new rice and mouse data from the strains with available genome sequences. The sensitivity and false positive rate of nucleotide polymorphism detection were estimated based on the sequence information. The robustness of expression polymorphism detection against nucleotide polymorphisms was also investigated. SNEP performed well regardless of the genome size and showed a better performance for nucleotide polymorphism detection, when compared with other previously proposed methods. The R-software 'SNEP' is available at http://www.ism.ac.jp/~fujisawa/SNEP/.
19420380	The next-generation sequencing technology coupled with the growing number of genome sequences opens the opportunity to redesign genotyping strategies for more effective genetic mapping and genome analysis. We have developed a high-throughput method for genotyping recombinant populations utilizing whole-genome resequencing data generated by the Illumina Genome Analyzer. A sliding window approach is designed to collectively examine genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms for genotype calling and recombination breakpoint determination. Using this method, we constructed a genetic map for 150 rice recombinant inbred lines with an expected genotype calling accuracy of 99.94% and a resolution of recombination breakpoints within an average of 40 kb. In comparison to the genetic map constructed with 287 PCR-based markers for the rice population, the sequencing-based method was approximately 20x faster in data collection and 35x more precise in recombination breakpoint determination. Using the sequencing-based genetic map, we located a quantitative trait locus of large effect on plant height in a 100-kb region containing the rice "green revolution" gene. Through computer simulation, we demonstrate that the method is robust for different types of mapping populations derived from organisms with variable quality of genome sequences and is feasible for organisms with large genome sizes and low polymorphisms. With continuous advances in sequencing technologies, this genome-based method may replace the conventional marker-based genotyping approach to provide a powerful tool for large-scale gene discovery and for addressing a wide range of biological questions.
19420724	Soft carbohydrates, defined as readily-recoverable carbohydrates via mere extraction from the biomass or brief enzymatic saccharification, were found in significant amounts in rice straw as forms of free glucose, free fructose, sucrose, starch, and beta-1,3-1,4-glucan. In this study, we investigated their amounts in rice straw (defined as culm and leaf sheath), and developed an easy method for glucose and fructose recovery from them with heat-pretreatment and subsequent 4-h enzymatic saccharification with an enzyme cocktail of cellulase and amyloglucosidase. The recovery of glucose and fructose exhibited good correlation with the amounts of soft carbohydrates. The maximum yields of glucose and fructose in the rice straw per dry weight at the heading stage and the mature stage were 43.5% in cv. Habataki and 34.1% in cv. Leafstar. Thus, rice straw with soft carbohydrates can be regarded as a novel feedstock for economically feasible production of readily-fermentable glucose and fructose for bioethanol.
19420728	Phosphinothricin (PPT) is the active ingredient in bialaphos, which specifically inhibits glutamine synthetase in land plants. We isolated a novel PPT-resistant gene from a soil bacterium, Nocardia sp., and characterized it. The encoded protein, consisting of 177 amino acids, showed significant similarity to bacterial N-acetyltransferases, and we originally designated the gene MAT (methionine sulfone N-acetyltransferase). The recombinant MAT protein exhibited functions as a methionine sulfone and PPT N-acetyltransferase in vitro. The PPT N-acetyltransferase activity reached the maximum at pH 8-8.5, indicating that the protein might optimally function in chloroplasts. We therefore constructed a MAT gene, encoding the enzyme with a chloroplast-localizing signal in its amino-terminus. Plant transformation with the construct resulted in the generation of PPT-resistant rice and Arabidopsis. Furthermore, the transformed Arabidopsis was selectable in a synthetic medium containing PPT. The MAT gene thus facilitated establishment of herbicide-resistant plants, and as a new selectable gene marker.
19420799	It has been shown that the disruption of the alpha-subunit gene of heterotorimeric G-proteins (Galpha) results in dwarf traits, the erection of leaves and the setting of small seeds in rice. These mutants are called d1. We have studied the expression profiles of the transcripts and translation products of rice Galpha in ten alleles of d1 including five additional alleles newly identified. By RT-PCR, the transcripts of the Galpha gene were detected in the all d1 alleles. By western blot, the Galpha proteins were not detected in the plasma membrane fractions of the d1 alleles with the exception of d1-4. In d1-4, one amino acid change in the GTP-binding box A of the Galpha protein was occurred and even in this case the Galpha protein was only just detectable in the plasma membrane fraction. Given that the Galpha protein did not accumulate in the plasma membrane fraction in d1-8 which has a deletion of just a single amino acid in the Galpha protein, it is likely that a proper conformation of the Galpha is necessary for accumulation of Galpha protein in the plasma membrane. Nine alleles of d1 showed a severer phenotype whilst d1-4 exhibited a mild phenotype with respect to seed size and elongation pattern of internodes. As brassinosteroid signaling was known to be partially impaired in d1s, the sensitivity to 24-epibrassinolide (24-epiBL) was compared among d1 alleles in a T65 genetic background. Only d1-4 showed responses similar to wild type rice. The results show that the d1-4 mutant is a mild allele in terms of the phenotype and mild hyposensitivity to the exogenously applied 24-epiBL.
1942209	The seasonality of malaria transmission was studied in a Gambian village situated in an area where rice was cultivated. Observations were made during two dry seasons, when pump-fed irrigation was used to grow rice, and in the intervening rainy season, when rice was cultivated using a combination of irrigated and rain-fed paddies. Clinical episodes of malaria were mainly confined to the months during and soon after the rainy season. In the wet season the prevalence of parasitaemia was higher in febrile subjects than in afebrile controls but the reverse applied during the dry seasons. However, the biting rates of Anopheles gambiae complex mosquitoes in the two dry seasons (2.5 and 0.8 bites/child/night respectively) were greater than or similar to that in the rainy season (0.6 bites/child/night). The proportion of human bloodmeals (0.53 vs 0.75) and the survival of mosquitoes (parity rates of 0.41 vs 0.58) were both lower in the dry seasons than in the rains. The low prevalence of morbidity due to malaria in the dry season and the observed fall in the sporozoite rate may therefore have been due to a reduction in the vectorial capacity of the An. gambiae population. However, reduced transmission in the dry season may also have been due to the direct effect of high temperatures on the parasite in the vector.
19422524	We provide the first report of rhinofacial conidiobolomycosis caused by Conidiobolus coronatus in China. The patient was a 36-year-old male rice farmer from Jiang Xi province who presented with diffuse swelling with classical centrofacial distribution and involvement of the right paranasal sinuses. Histopathology showed granulomas with hyphae surrounded by an eosinophilic sheath (Splendore-Hoeppli phenomenon). Culture of biopsy specimens on Sabouraud's dextrose agar led to the growth of fungi with microscopically visible conidiophores and terminal spherical conidia (primary conidium), with multiple secondary conidia and villose conidia. The patient was successfully treated with combination therapy, primarily itraconazole and terbinafine. We conclude with a brief literature review of the epidemiology of conidiobolomycosis.
19422603	The phosphorus uptake 1 (Pup1) locus was identified as a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) for tolerance of phosphorus deficiency in rice. Near-isogenic lines with the Pup1 region from tolerant donor parent Kasalath typically show threefold higher phosphorus uptake and grain yield in phosphorus-deficient field trials than the intolerant parent Nipponbare. In this study, we report the fine mapping of the Pup1 locus to the long arm of chromosome 12 (15.31-15.47 Mb). Genes in the region were initially identified on the basis of the Nipponbare reference genome, but did not reveal any obvious candidate genes related to phosphorus uptake. Kasalath BAC clones were therefore sequenced and revealed a 278-kbp sequence significantly different from the syntenic regions in Nipponbare (145 kb) and in the indica reference genome of 93-11 (742 kbp). Size differences are caused by large insertions or deletions (INDELs), and an exceptionally large number of retrotransposon and transposon-related elements (TEs) present in all three sequences (45%-54%). About 46 kb of the Kasalath sequence did not align with the entire Nipponbare genome, and only three Nipponbare genes (fatty acid alpha-dioxygenase, dirigent protein and aspartic proteinase) are highly conserved in Kasalath. Two Nipponbare genes (expressed proteins) might have evolved by at least three TE integrations in an ancestor gene that is still present in Kasalath. Several predicted Kasalath genes are novel or unknown genes that are mainly located within INDEL regions. Our results highlight the importance of sequencing QTL regions in the respective donor parent, as important genes might not be present in the current reference genomes.
19423186	Glutathione reductase (GR, EC 1,6.4.2) is an important reactive oxygen species-scavenging enzyme. The present study examined the relative importance of Na(+), Cl(-), and the osmotic component in NaCl-induced expression of Oryza sativa glutathione reductase (OsGR) genes in rice roots. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR was used to quantify the mRNA levels for one cytosolic (OsGR2) and two chloroplastic (OsGR1 and OsGR3) isoforms of GR identified in the rice genome. The expression of OsGR2 and OsGR3 but not OsGR1 was increased in rice roots treated with NaCl. Treatment with 150 mM NaCl and 150 mM NaNO(3) affected OsGR2 and OsGR3 induction similarly, which suggests that Na(+) but not Cl(-) is required for the NaCl-induced expression of OsGR2 and OsGR3. We also show that Na(+) but not Cl(-) is required for NaCl-enhanced GR activity and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) production in rice roots. In addition to its component of ion toxicity, salt concentration in soil results in an osmotic effect. Here, we show that OsGR2 and OsGR3 expression, GR activity, and H(2)O(2) content were not affected at a concentration of mannitol iso-osmotic with 150 mM NaCl. NaCl-induced OsGR2 and OsGR3 in rice roots could be associated with Na(+) but not an osmotic component.
19423600	In this study, waste ash was utilized as a pozzolanic material in blended Portland cement in order to reduce negative environmental effects and landfill volume required to dispose of waste ash. The influence of waste ash, namely palm oil fuel ash, rice husk ash and fly ash on compressive strength and sulfate resistance in mortar were studied and evaluated by some accelerated short-term techniques in sodium sulfate solutions. Ordinary Portland cement (OPC) was partially replaced with ground palm oil fuel ash (POA), ground rice husk ash (RHA) and classified fly ash (FA). Single pozzolan and a blend of equal weight portions of POA, RHA and FA were also used. The resistance to sulfate attack of mortar improves substantially with partial replacement of OPC with POA, RHA and FA. The use of a blend of equal weight portions of FA and POA or RHA produced mixes with good strength and resistance to sulfate attack. POA, RHA and FA have a high potential to be used as a pozzolanic material.
19423625	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial blight disease in rice, one of the most serious rice diseases. The xrvA gene from Xoo strain 1,3751 encodes a protein containing a histone-like nucleoid-structuring protein (H-NS) domain. The expression of xrvA in strain 1,3751 was enhanced in XOM2 minimal medium. Mutation of the xrvA gene of strain 1,3751 led to a significant reduction in virulence in the host plant rice, a delayed hypersensitive response in the nonhost castor-oil plant, a decrease in extracellular polysaccharide and diffusible signal factor production, and an increase in intracellular glycogen accumulation. Northern hybridization analyses revealed that the virulence-associated genes hrpG, hrpX, rpfC, rpfF, rpfG and gumB were downregulated in the xrvA mutant compared to the wild-type and complemented strains. Interestingly, increase of copy number of xrvA in the wild-type strain 1,3751 resulted in a strain showing similar phenotypes as the xrvA mutant and a reduction of the expression of gumB, hrpX, rpfC, rpfF and rpfG. These findings indicate that the xrvA gene, which is highly conserved in the sequenced strains of Xanthomonas, encodes an important regulatory factor for the virulence of Xoo.
19425545	The properties of the 1:1 iodine-benzene complex isolated in a solid Kr matrix at low temperatures have been studied using UV-vis absorption, FTIR, resonance Raman, and femtosecond coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy (fs-CARS). The use of all these techniques on similar samples provides a wide view on the spectroscopic properties of the complex and allows comparison and combination of the results from different methods. The results for the complex cover its structure, the changes in the iodine molecule's vibrational frequencies and electronic absorption spectrum upon complexation, and the dynamics of the complexed I(2) molecule on both ground and excited electronic states. In addition, polarization beats between uncomplexed benzene and iodine molecules are detected in the fs-CARS spectra, showing an amplification of an electronically nonresonant CARS signal by the resonant iodine signal. The possibility of controlling the charge-transfer reaction of the I(2)-Bz complex using the excitation of a well-defined ground-state vibrational wavepacket, according to the Tannor-Rice-Kosloff scheme, is discussed on the basis of the experimental findings.
19426686	High intake of whole grain food has been suggested as an important factor for reducing the risk of colon cancer, owing to the abundance of indigestible fibers. Our findings demonstrated that, among various rice bran phenolic compounds tested, cycloartenyl ferulate (CF) showed the most prominent in vitro growth inhibition on human colorectal adenocarcinoma SW480, but had low toxicity on normal colon CCD-18-Co cells. The anticancer activity of CF was further illustrated by its ability to induce significant regression of SW480 xenograft in nude mice. CF elevated the death receptors DR4 and DR5 and triggered both the death receptor and the mitochondrial apoptosis pathways. Depletion of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 and up-regulation of pro-apoptotic Bak were observed, accompanied by dissipation of the mitochondrial membrane potential and release of cyto c and SMAC/DIABLO from mitochondria into the cytosol. Bid was found to be cleaved by caspase-8, so that the death receptor pathway might be exaggerated by the mitochondrial pathway. Strikingly, we showed for the first time that CF also sensitized the metastatic and resistant colon cancer SW620 to TRAIL-induced apoptosis and the mechanisms involved at least enhanced activation of caspase-8 and -3. This study provides a clear evidence that the health-beneficial properties of whole grain consumption are not only limited by the presence of dietary fibers but also other molecules that can either act as a chemopreventive agent to directly induce tumor regression or as a sensitizer to enhance TRAIL-induced apoptosis in metastatic cancer cells.
19427784	Rice straw was pretreated using aqueous-ammonia solution at moderate temperatures to enable production of the maximum amount of fermentable sugars from enzymatic hydrolysis. The effects of various operating variables including pretreatment temperature, pretreatment time, the concentration of ammonia and the solid-to-liquid ratio on the degree of lignin removal and the enzymatic digestibility were optimized using response surface methodology. The optimal reaction conditions, which resulted in an enzymatic digestibility of 71.1%, were found to be 69 degrees C, 10h and an ammonia concentration of 21% (w/w). The effects of different commercial cellulases and the additional effect of a non-cellulolytic enzyme, xylanase, were also evaluated. Additionally, simultaneous saccharification and fermentation was conducted with rice straw to assess the ethanol production yield and productivity.
19428473	In this study a disproportionating enzyme, 4-alpha-glucanotransferase (4alphaGTase), was used to modify the structural properties of rice starch to produce a suitable fat substitute in reduced-fat (RF) mayonnaise. The mayonnaise fat was partially substituted with the 4alphaGTase-treated starch paste at levels up to 50% in combination with xanthan gum and the physical and rheological properties of the modified RF mayonnaise samples were investigated. All mayonnaises prepared in this study exhibited shear thinning behavior and yield stress. Viscoelastic properties of mayonnaise were characterized using dynamic oscillatory shear test and it was observed that mayonnaises exhibited weak gel-like properties. The magnitude of elastic and loss moduli was also affected by 4alphaGTase-treated starch concentration and presence of xanthan gum. In relation to microstructure, RF mayonnaise prepared with 3.8 or 5.6 wt% of 4alphaGTase-treated starch and xanthan gum showed smaller droplets. The use of 5.6 wt% of 4alphaGTase-treated starch and 0.1 wt% of xanthan gum produced a RF mayonnaise with similar rheological properties and appearances as FF mayonnaise with gum. This study demonstrated a high feasibility for using 4alphaGTase-treated rice starch as a viable fat replacer in mayonnaise.
19428935	Diphenylarsinic acid [DPAA(V)] was detected in ground water used as drinking water after a poisonous incident in Kamisu, Japan. An approach to define the target molecules of DPAA(V) with a high throughput analysis of proteins from cultured human cells demonstrated down-regulation of glutaminase C (GAC). GAC is a splicing variant of the kidney-type glutaminase (KGA) gene and has the enzyme activity of phosphate-activated glutaminase (PAG). To gain some insights into the mechanism of arsenic intoxication in Kamisu, the effects of various arsenic compounds, including arsenicals that were detected in ground water ([DPAA(V)], phenylarsonic acid [PAA(V)] and bis(diphenylarsine)oxide [BDPAO(III)]) and rice (phenylmethylarsinic acid [PMAA(V)]), were investigated for the expression of GAC and PAG activity. When cultured human HepG2 cells were incubated with arsenicals for 24h, the pentavalent phenylarsenic form of PAA(V) and PMAA(V) as well as DPAA(V) suppressed the expression of GAC protein and PAG activity in a concentration-dependent manner. On the other hand, the trivalent phenylarsenic form of BDPAO(III) had no suppressive effect on GAC and PAG. In addition, trivalent phenylarsenic compounds, such as the glutathione (GSH) conjugate of DPAA(V) [DPA-GS (III)] and triphenylarsine [TPA(III)], and the inorganic arsenics, iAs(V) and iAs(III), and methylated metabolites of inorganic arsenics, dimethylarsinic acid [DMA(V)] and dimethylarsinous acid [DMA(III)], had no suppressive effect on glutaminase. Likewise, methyl substituents of the hydroxyl groups of DPAA(V), PAA(V) and PMAA(V), diphenylmethylarsine oxide [DPMAO(V)] and phenyldimethylarsine oxide [PDMAO(V)], did not have any suppressive effects. These results suggest that pentavalent arsenic compounds with both phenyl groups and hydroxyl groups are effective in the suppression of glutaminase. In addition, the fact that it was only the arsenicals detected in Kamisu that were effective in suppressing glutaminase provides insights into the cause of the arsenic intoxication at Kamisu.
19429605	Transcription factors with an APETELA2 (AP2) domain have been implicated in various cellular processes involved in plant development and stress responses. Of the 139 AP2 genes predicted in rice (Oryza sativa), we identified 42 genes in our current study that are induced by one or more stress conditions, including drought, high salinity, low temperature, and abscisic acid. Phylogenic analysis of these 42 stress-inducible AP2 genes revealed the presence of six subgroups (I-VI) with distinct signature motifs. Two genes, AP37 and AP59, representing subgroups I and II, respectively, were functionally characterized. Both genes were found to be induced upon 2 h of exposure to drought and high-salinity conditions but to differ in their expression profile upon exposure to low temperature and abscisic acid. The overexpression of AP37 and AP59 in rice under the control of the constitutive promoter OsCc1 increased the tolerance to drought and high salinity at the vegetative stage. Increased tolerance to low temperatures was observed only in OsCc1:AP37 plants. More importantly, the OsCc1:AP37 plants showed significantly enhanced drought tolerance in the field, which increased grain yield by 16% to 57% over controls under severe drought conditions, yet exhibited no significant difference under normal growth conditions. In contrast, grain yield in OsCc1:AP59 plants in the field was reduced by 23% to 43% compared with controls under both normal and drought stress conditions. Microarray experiments identified 10 and 38 genes that are up-regulated by AP37 and AP59, respectively, in addition to 37 genes that are commonly induced by both factors. Our results suggest that the AP37 gene has the potential to improve drought tolerance in rice without causing undesirable growth phenotypes.
19429695	Gene families compose a large proportion of eukaryotic genomes. The rapidly expanding genomic sequence database provides a good opportunity to study gene family evolution and function. However, most gene family identification programs are restricted to searching protein databases where data are often lagging behind the genomic sequence data. Here, we report a user-friendly web-based pipeline, named TARGeT (Tree Analysis of Related Genes and Transposons), which uses either a DNA or amino acid 'seed' query to: (i) automatically identify and retrieve gene family homologs from a genomic database, (ii) characterize gene structure and (iii) perform phylogenetic analysis. Due to its high speed, TARGeT is also able to characterize very large gene families, including transposable elements (TEs). We evaluated TARGeT using well-annotated datasets, including the ascorbate peroxidase gene family of rice, maize and sorghum and several TE families in rice. In all cases, TARGeT rapidly recapitulated the known homologs and predicted new ones. We also demonstrated that TARGeT outperforms similar pipelines and has functionality that is not offered elsewhere.
19430030	The complexity of the wheat genome has delayed the development and application of molecular markers to this species and wheat now lies behind barley, maize and rice in marker development. However, improvements in marker detection systems and in the techniques used to identify markers linked to useful traits has allowed considerable advances to be made in recent years. To evaluate the genetic diversity 53 genotypes of Richard's selection, were studied at National Agriculture Reseach Center (NARC) Islamabad. The present study found that RAPD analysis is a valuable diagnostic tool. Different sets of RAPD primers were used to study the polymorphism at molecular level. Highest number of amplifications was shown by primer OpG-2 in Richard's material. Coefficient of similarity as well as genetic distances among these three sets of materials was calculated by using Unweighted Pair Group of Arithamatic Means (UPGMA) function (Nei and Li, 1979). The SHs derived genotypes of Richard's selection were highly polymorphic with a polymorphism percentage of 69.70 as compared to NUYT (rainfed) and elite Pakistani bread wheat varieties with a polymorphism of 44.44% and 61.11% respectively. Cluster analysis was done in which grouping of genotypes was done on the basis of genetic distances. Cluster analysis revealed that genotypes of Richard's genotypes are showing high level of among cultivar variation as compared to NUYT (Rainfed) and elite Pakistani drought tolerant bread wheat varieties. These genotypes were also phenotypically evaluated.
19430792	Glutamate dehydrogenases (GDH, EC 1.4.1.2 approximately 4) are ubiquitous enzymes encoded by GDH genes. So far, at least two GDH members have been characterized in plants, but most members of this family in rice remains to be characterized. Here, we show that four putative GDH genes (OsGDH1-4) are present in the rice genome. The GDH sequences from rice and other species can be classified into two types (I and II). OsGDH1-3 belonged to type II genes, whereas OsGDH4 belonged to type I like gene. Our data implied that the expansion rate of type I genes was much slower than that of type II genes and species-specific expansion contributed to the evolution of type II genes in plants. The expression levels of the different members of GDH family in rice were evaluated using quantitative real-time PCR and microarray analysis. Gene expression patterns revealed that OsGDH1, OsGDH2, and OsGDH4 are expressed ubiquitously in various tissues, whereas OsGDH3 expression is glumes and stamens specific. The expression of the OsGDH family members responded differentially to nitrogen and phosphorus-deprivation, indicating their roles under such stress conditions. Implications of the expression patterns with respect to the functions of these genes were discussed.
19431200	Increased human population growth and more conversions of natural habitat to agricultural land have resulted in greater proximity between humans and nonhuman primate species. Consequent increases in resource competition including crop-raiding are a by-product of both natural resources becoming less available and the nutritional benefits of cultivated foods becoming more known to the nonhuman primates. Chimpanzees at Bossou in the Republic of Guinea, West Africa, consume 17 different types of cultivated foods that are grown extensively throughout their small, fragmented home range. Direct observations of feeding behavior conducted over an 18-month period revealed that during specific months crops account for up to one quarter of chimpanzee feeding time, with higher overall crop-raiding levels throughout the periods of wild fruit scarcity. Some cultivated foods, especially sugar fruits, are mostly fallback foods, whereas others, such as rice pith (Oryza sp.) and maize (Zea mays), are consumed according to their availability even when wild foods are abundant. These findings highlight the importance of both crop choice by farmers and a thorough understanding of the ecology of resident primate species when establishing land management techniques for alleviating human-primate conflict.
19432345	Dissipation of pentachlorophenol (PCP) with initial concentration of 85 mg/kg in red paddy field with rice cultivation and non-rice cultivation were investigated under the conditions of four long-term fertilization treatments, including the ones without fertilizer (CK), application of urea (N), application of organic fertilizer (OM), and N + OM. The results showed that the extractable PCP residues in surface soil in the treatments CK, N, OM and N + OM under non-rice cultivation condition were 28.3, 34.2, 19.3, 18.7 mg/kg after harvesting rice plant, and the extractable PCP residues in subsurface soil were 6.3, 9.1, 5.1, 4.1 mg/kg,respectively. Under rice cultivation condition, the extractable PCP residues in surface soil were 19.4, 30.9, 16.7, 8.7 mg/kg, and the extractable PCP residues in subsurface soil were 3.7, 6.1, 2.6, 2.8 mg/kg, respectively. The results indicated that the long-term application of organic fertilizer or inorganic plus organic fertilizer significantly accelerated the dissipation of PCP in surface soil, and decreased the transportation of PCP down the soil profile. However, long-term application of urea inhibited the dissipation of PCP in surface soil, and increased the transportation of PCP down the soil profile. When compared with non-rice cultivation, rice cultivation significantly accelerated the dissipation of PCP in surface soil other than the treatment N. In addition,the rice cultivation significantly decreased the transportation of PCP down the soil profile. No matter rice was cultivated or not, the dechlorinated metabolites of PCP detected in paddy soil were 2,3,4,5-TeCP and 3,4,5-TCP. 2,3,4,5-TeCP was the major dechlorinated metabolite of PCP under non-rice cultivation condition,whereas 3,4,5-TCP was the major dechlorinated metabolite of PCP under rice cultivation condition.
19432348	Based on field investigation and laboratory analysis, the speciation and bioavailability of the heavy metals (Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn) was studied. These metals were tested from 16 soil samples taken from paddy soils irrigated by acid mine drainage in the lower stream of Dabaoshan mine area, Guangdong Province, China. The toxicity characteristic leaching procedure (TCLP) and three-step community bureau of reference (BCR) sequential extraction procedure methods were used to analyse the bioavailability of heavy metals. TCLP is currently recognized as an international method for evaluation of heavy metal pollution in soils. Two methods were compared in bioavailability by stepwise multiple linear regression analysis. Cd was dominated mainly by the acid-extractable and residual fractions, and followed by the order of acid-extractable > residual > oxidisable > reducible. Cu was dominated mainly by the residual fraction, and decreased in the following order: residual > reducible > acid-extractable > oxidisable. Pb was dominantly released in the reducible and residual fractions, they account for 86.54% of the total contents, and decreased in the following order: reducible > residual > acid-extractable > oxidisable. Zn was dominated mainly by the residual fraction, it takes more than 50% of the total contents, and followed by the order of residual > acid-extractable > reducible > oxidisable. The levels of Cd, Cu, Pb and Zn extracted by TCLP were 0.17-0.89, 8.12-70.33, 3.16-90.33 and 10.24-106.85 mg x kg(-1), respectively, and the average concentrations of Cd, Cu, Pb and Zn were 0.41, 36.60, 15.97 and 50.78 mg x kg(-1), respectively. The concentrations of Cd, Cu, Ph and Zn in rice seeds were 0.183-0.947, 3.542-5.997, 0.285-1.532 and 17.54-41.10 mg x kg(-1), respectively. Comparing to the national standards on heavy metals in foods by the Chinese Ministry of Health, the contents of Cu and Zn in rice seeds didn't exceed the upper limit, while the contents of Cd and Pb in rice seeds exceed the upper limit by 87.50% and 81.25%, respectively. Results of the stepwise multiple linear regression analysis revealed that contents of Cd and Zn in seeds of rice were significantly influenced by contents of acid-extractable Cd and Zn, that contents of Cu in seeds of rice were significantly influenced by contents of acid-extractable and oxidisable Cu, and the contents of Pb in seeds of rice were significantly influenced by contents of reducible Pb and organic matter. Contents of four metals in seeds of rice were significantly influenced by contents of metals extracted by TCLP, and the influences of total content, pH and organic matter were not significant. In short, TCLP method was fast, simple and suitable for evaluation of bioavailability of heavy metals in sewage-irrigated paddy soils by acid mine drainage.
19432451	Soluble and bound phenolic acids were isolated from Thai rice husk samples at five growth stages during grain development, and their antioxidant activities were evaluated. The results showed that ferulic acid was the major soluble phenolic acid in husk at all stages, and its concentration decreased steadily during grain development. The ratio of ferulic to p-coumaric acid was approximately 2:1 at all stages. The most abundant bound phenolic acid in all extracts was p-coumaric acid, followed by ferulic acid along with traces of syringic, vanilic, and p-hydroxybenzoic acids. Most of the antioxidant activities of soluble and bound phenolic acids in husk extracts were found at flowering stage, and there were high correlations of antioxidant activity to levels of soluble ferulic, gallic, and p-coumaric acids.
19433308	Plants absorb a number of elements from soil, some of which have no known biological function and some are known to be toxic at low concentrations. As plants constitute the foundation of the food chain, some concerns have been raised about the possibility of toxic concentrations of certain elements being transported from plants to higher strata of the food chain. Special attention has been given to the uptake and biotransformation mechanisms occurring in plants and its role in bioaccumulation and impact on consumers, especially human beings. While this review draws particular attention to metal accumulation in edible plants, researched studies of certain wild plants and their consumers are included. Furthermore, this review focuses on plant uptake of the toxic elements arsenic, cadmium, chromium, mercury, and lead and their possible transfer to the food chain. These elements were selected because they are well-established as being toxic for living systems and their effects in humans have been widely documented. Arsenic is known to promote cancer of the bladder, lung, and skin and can be acquired, for example, through the consumption of As-contaminated rice. Cadmium can attack kidney, liver, bone, and it also affects the female reproduction system. Cadmium also can be found in rice. Chromium can produce cancer, and humans can be exposed through smoking and eating Cr-laden vegetables. Lead and mercury are well known neurotoxins that can be consumed via seafood, vegetables and rice.
19433336	A sensitive competitive indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the insecticide parathion was developed. The optimal immunogen was 5-(ethoxy(4-nitrophenoxy)phosphorothioylamino)pentanoic acid. In addition, five competitors were applied for development of a heterologous competitive indirect ELISA. Then several physicochemical factors (organic solvent, ionic strength and pH) that influence assay performance were studied and optimized. The IC(50) and IC(10) of the optimized ELISA were 0.95 and 0.15 ng/mL, respectively, which meant almost 86-fold and 6-fold improvement in the assay sensitivity in comparison with the homologous assay (81.74 ng/mL) and the non-optimized heterologous assay (5.60 ng/mL). Finally, the assay was applied to the analysis of parathion in spiked agricultural and environmental samples without extraction or cleanup. The average recoveries of parathion added to water, soil, cucumber, rice and corn were between 78.57% and 107.67%. The limit of detection (LOD) for water and soil samples was 5 ng/mL, and the LOD for cucumber, rice and corn samples was 10 ng/mL.
19433350	Microbial oil production from sulphuric acid treated rice straw hydrolysate (SARSH) by Trichosporon fermentans was performed for the first time. Fermentation of SARSH without detoxification gave a poor lipid yield of 1.7 g/l, which was much lower than the result with glucose or xylose as the single carbon source (13.6 g/l or 9.9 g/l). The detoxification pretreatment, including overliming, concentration, and adsorption by Amberlite XAD-4 improved the fermentability of SARSH significantly by removing the inhibitors in SARSH. A total biomass of 28.6 g/l with a lipid content of 40.1% (corresponding to a lipid yield of 11.5 g/l) could be achieved after cultivation of T. fermentans on the detoxified SARSH for 8 days. Moreover, besides SARSH, T. fermentans could also utilize mannose, galactose, or cellobiose, in hydrolysates of other natural lignocellulosic materials as the single carbon source to grow and accumulate lipid with a high yield (at least 10.4 g/l). Hence, it is a promising strain for microbial oil production and thus biodiesel preparation from agro-industrial residues, especially lignocellulosic materials.
19434356	We examined the selective inhibitory potential of rice hull extract on the toxic cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa, in comparison with inhibitory effects on two green algae (Ankistrodesmus convolutus and Scenedesmus quadricauda) and a zooplankton (Daphnia magna) species. The inhibitory effect of rice hull extract, measured by algal growth or zooplankton survival using four different concentrations of extract (1, 10, 100 and 1000 microg L(-1)), was highest on Microcystis strains (average: 98%, range: 95%-99%), followed by D. magna (average: 22%, range: 10%-47%), A. convolutus (average: 20%, range: 16%-24%), and S. quadricauda (average: 8%, range: 0%-15%). Rice hull extract had only a small effect on the growth of the green algae and Daphnia, particularly in the range 1-100 microg L(-1), and the inhibitory effect was somewhat diminished even at the 1,000 microg L(-1) level, at the end of the experimental period, especially for Daphnia. Our study indicates that rice hull extract has a strong specific algicide potential when used to combat M. aeruginosa.
19434509	Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a four-carbon amino acid that is commonly present in living organisms and functions as a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in mammals. It is understood to have a potentially anti-hypertensive effect in mammals. GABA is synthesized from glutamate by glutamate decarboxylase (GAD). In plants, GAD is regulated via its calmodulin-binding domain (CaMBD) by Ca(2+)/CaM. We have previously reported that a C-terminal truncated version of one of the five rice GAD isoforms, GAD2DeltaC, revealed higher enzymatic activity in vitro and that its over-expression resulted in exceptionally high GABA accumulation (Akama and Takaiwa, J Exp Bot 58:2699-2607, 2007). In this study, GAD2DeltaC, under the control of the rice glutelin promoter (GluB-1), was introduced into rice cells via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation to produce transgenic rice lines. Analysis of the free amino acid content of rice grains revealed up to about a 30-fold higher level of GABA than in non-transformed rice grains. There were also very high levels of various free protein amino acids in the seeds. GABA-enriched rice grains were milled to a fine powder for oral administration to spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKYs). Six weeks of administration showed that transgenic rice brings about a 20 mmHg decrease in blood pressure in two different kinds of SHRs, while there was no significant hypotensive effect in WKYs. These results suggest an alternative way to control and/or cure hypertension in humans with GABA-enriched rice as part of a common daily diet.
19436135	We have previously reported the preventive effects of light resistance exercise (voluntary tower climbing exercise) after ingestion of a high-protein snack (HPS) on muscle loss in glucocorticoid-injected rats. However, such studies have not been performed in humans. In this cross-over study, we examined the effect of light resistance exercise after ingestion of HPS on plasma branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) concentrations in humans. Seven healthy young adult females (aged 22.1+/-1.2 y) participated in this study. They were assigned to either an exercise group or a control group. Seven days after the first experiment, they were crossed over to the opposite intervention. The subjects ingested HPS (15 g protein, 18 g sugar) 3 h after breakfast (basal meal). The plasma BCAA concentrations increased at 30 min after HPS ingestion. The subjects in the exercise group performed light resistance exercise (15 min dumbbell exercise using 300 g brown-rice-filled fabric dumbbells) when the plasma BCAA concentrations were increased (60 min after the snack ingestion). The control group maintained a resting position during the experiment. Changes in the plasma BCAA concentrations between 60 and 90 min after HPS ingestion increased continuously in the control group (+27 micromol/L) but decreased in the exercise group (-37 micromol/L). Therefore, light resistance exercise after HPS ingestion may be effective for utilization of plasma BCAA in humans.
19436144	The rice protein prepared from alkaline extraction (AE-RP) has high digestibility compared to that obtained from starch degradation (SD-RP) in in vitro digestion experiments, and alterations in the protein body (PB) structures were observed in AE-RP in the previous study. The improvement in the digestibility of AE-RP is probably a result of the structural change of PB. The present study was carried out to elucidate the superiority of AE-RP compared to SD-RP in bioavailability in growing rats. There were no major differences between AE-RP and SD-RP in polypeptide compositions according to SDS-PAGE and their amino acid compositions. The equivalent body weight gain and similar growth curves in both AE-RP and casein (control) groups were obtained during the feeding period of 28 d, and their values were significantly higher compared to the SD-RP group (p<0.05). The protein efficiency ratio (PER) of the SD-RP (1.73) group was significantly lower than those of the AE-RP (1.87) and casein (1.84) groups (p<0.05). The plasma lysine concentrations at the last stage of the feeding period in the AE-RP and SD-RP groups were approximate levels and were appreciably lower, compared to that of the casein group (p<0.001). Portal plasma amino acid concentrations were determined after single administration (4 g/kg) of two rice proteins in non-anaesthetized rats. All the amino acid concentrations in the 2 groups reached a maximum level at 30 min or 1 h and decreased to the pre-administration levels 6 h after the start of administration. The total amounts of three amino acids, leucine, valine and arginine, which appeared in the portal blood during the 6 h period after the start of administration of AE-RP, were higher than those of SD-RP (p<0.05). Furthermore, 13 kDa prolamin was detected with Western-blot analysis only in the feces of rats fed SD-RP. Consequently, these results indicate that the bioavailability of rice protein containing prolamin was improved by alkaline extraction.
19437211	This study investigated the effect of a single dose of tomato sauce on healthy male volunteers in a randomized crossover study. Healthy male subjects (n = 10) were enrolled. Placebo (rice and olive oil) or tomato (tomato sauce, rice and olive oil) meals were provided to the volunteers. Blood and urine samples were taken before consumption of meal (0 h) and 2, 4, 6, 24 and 48 h after meal. Consumption of tomato sauce increased plasma lycopene level by 5-22%, with a maximum level at 24 h (p<0.01) after the meal. Levels of plasma F(2)-isoprostanes, hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid products, allantoin and urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine did not change after either meal, but urinary F(2)-isoprostanes (p<0.05) significantly decreased at 48 h compared to 0 h after the tomato sauce meal. This study showed that a single dose of tomato sauce meal had only a limited antioxidant effect in vivo.
19437441	A rapid multianalyte-multiclass method with little sample manipulation has been developed for the simultaneous determination of eleven mycotoxins in different food commodities by using ultra-high-pressure liquid chromatography coupled to triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (UHPLC/MS/MS). Toxins were extracted from the samples with acetonitrile/water (80:20, v/v) 0.1% HCOOH and, after a two-fold dilution with water, directly injected into the system. Thanks to the fast high-resolution separation of UHPLC, the eleven mycotoxins were separated by gradient elution in only 4 min. The method has been validated in three food matrices (maize kernels, dry pasta (wheat), and eight-multicereal babyfood (wheat, maize, rice, oat, barley, rye, sorghum, millet)) at four different concentration levels. Satisfactory recoveries were obtained (70-110%) and precision (expressed as relative standard deviation) was typically below 15% with very few exceptions. Quantification of samples was carried out with matrix-matched standards calibration. The lowest concentration successfully validated in sample was as low as 0.5 microg/kg for aflatoxins and ochratoxin A in babyfood, and 20 microg/kg for the rest of the selected mycotoxins in all matrices tested. Deoxynivalenol could be only validated at 200 microg/kg, due the poor sensitivity for this mycotoxin analysis. With only two exceptions (HT-2 and deoxynivalenol), the limits of detection (LODs), estimated for a signal-to-noise ratio of 3 from the chromatograms of samples spiked at the lowest level validated, varied between 0.1 and 1 microg/kg in the three food matrices tested. The method was applied to the analysis of different kinds of samples. Positive findings were confirmed by acquiring two transitions (Q quantification, q confirmation) and evaluating the Q/q ratio.
19438059	The rice hull ash is composed by 94% of SiO2, an agricultural waste that can be recovered and purified by a depolymerization reaction yielding an organo-silicic gel. The purpose of this paper is to show that this silica can be used to fix Cd2+ from aqueous solution. The pH of hydrolysis of the organo-silicic gel is the main factor modifying the distribution between the solid and the solution. The contact time between the Cd2+ solution and the solid was studied to optimize the sorption conditions. The equilibrium measurements were performed after 40 hours at room temperature. The competition with Ca2+ ions in the solutions was also studied in order to evaluate the selectivity of the Cd2+ fixation. It was found that the rice hull ash has a higher capacity to fix Cd2+ than the rice hull derivatives.
19438243	The rate coefficients for the CN + NCO --> NCN + CO reaction have been measured by a laser-photolysis/laser-induced fluorescence technique in the temperature range of 254-353 K and the He pressures of 123-566 Torr. The CN radical was produced from the photolysis of BrCN at 193 nm, and the NCO radical from the CN + O(2) reaction. The NCN radical was monitored by laser-induced fluorescence with a dye laser at 329.01 nm. The rate constants derived from kinetic modeling, with a negative temperature dependence but no pressure effect, can be expressed by k = (2.15 +/- 0.70) x 10(-11) exp[(155 +/- 92)/T] cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1), where the quoted errors are two standard deviations. The reaction mechanism and rate constant have also been theoretically predicted for the temperature range of 200-3000 K at He pressures ranging from 10(-4) Torr to 1000 atm based on dual channel Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) calculations with the potential energy surface evaluated at the G2M and CCSD(T) levels. The rate constant calculated by variational RRKM theory agrees reasonably with experimental data.
19439571	Serotonin, which is well known as a pineal hormone in mammals, plays a key role in conditions such as mood, eating disorders, and alcoholism. In plants, although serotonin has been suggested to be involved in several physiological roles, including flowering, morphogenesis, and adaptation to environmental changes, its regulation and functional roles are as yet not characterized at the molecular level. In this study, we found that serotonin is greatly accumulated in rice (Oryza sativa) leaves undergoing senescence induced by either nutrient deprivation or detachment, and its synthesis is closely coupled with transcriptional and enzymatic induction of the tryptophan biosynthetic genes as well as tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC). Transgenic rice plants that overexpressed TDC accumulated higher levels of serotonin than the wild type and showed delayed senescence of rice leaves. However, transgenic rice plants, in which expression of TDC was suppressed through an RNA interference (RNAi) system, produced less serotonin and senesced faster than the wild type, suggesting that serotonin is involved in attenuating leaf senescence. The senescence-retarding activity of serotonin is associated with its high antioxidant activity compared to either tryptophan or chlorogenic acid. Results of TDC overexpression and TDC RNAi plants suggest that TDC plays a rate-limiting role for serotonin accumulation, but the synthesis of serotonin depends on an absolute amount of tryptophan accumulation by the coordinate induction of the tryptophan biosynthetic genes. In addition, immunolocalization analysis revealed that serotonin was abundant in the vascular parenchyma cells, including companion cells and xylem-parenchyma cells, suggestive of its involvement in maintaining the cellular integrity of these cells for facilitating efficient nutrient recycling from senescing leaves to sink tissues during senescence.
19440504	Determining arsenic exposure in groups based on geographic location, dietary behaviors, or lifestyles is important, as even moderate exposures may lead to health concerns. The Korean community in Washington State, represents a group warranting investigation, as they consume foods (e.g., shellfish, rice, finfish, and seaweed) known to contain arsenic. As part of the Arsenic Mercury Intake Biometric Study, we examined the arsenic levels in hair and urine along with the diets of 108 women of childbearing age from within this community. Arsenic levels in indoor air and drinking water were also investigated, and shellfish commonly consumed were collected and analyzed for total and speciated arsenic. The six shellfish species analyzed (n = 667) contain total arsenic (range, 1-5 microg/g) but are a small source of inorganic arsenic (range, 0.01-0.12 microg/g). Six percent of the individuals may have elevated urinary inorganic arsenic levels (> 10 microg/L) due to diet. Seaweed, rice, shellfish, and finfish are principal sources for total arsenic intake/excretion based on mass balance estimates. Rice consumption (163 g/person/day) may be a significant source of inorganic arsenic. Air and water are not significant sources of exposure. Hair is a poor biometric for examining arsenic levels at low to moderate exposures. We conclude that a portion of this community may have dietary inorganic arsenic exposure resulting in urine levels exceeding 10 microg/L. Although their exposure is below that associated with populations exposed to high levels of arsenic from drinking water (> 100 microg/L), their exposure may be among the highest in the United States.
19441226	Ferulic acid esterase (FAE) was used to hydrolyze feruloyl ester linkages between hemicellulose and lignin in natural lignocellulose, and the possibility of FAE accelerating cellulase to hydrolyze steam-exploded rice straw by breaking covalent linkages was studied. When the dosage of FAE was 240 mu/g substrate, the cellulose conversion rate and the weight-loss rate of insoluble substrate at 72 h were respectively 32.00% and 32.77%, more than without using FAE; Cellulose conversion rate and the weight-loss rate of insoluble substrate were respectively 29.85% and 32.48% with FAE (300 mu/g substrate) processing time of 120 min. By comparison of the accessibility and FT-IR spectra of lignocellulosic material treated by different enzyme methods, it indicated that FAE hydrolyzed some ester bonds within it, and improved the accessibility by over 50%. It is concluded that FAE and cellulase have great synergistic effect, and FAE can help cellulase hydrolyze natural lignocellulose and enhance hydrolytic efficiency.
19443613	Genotypic variations in leaf gas exchange and yield were analysed in five upland-adapted and three lowland rice cultivars subjected to a differential soil moisture gradient, varying from well-watered to severely water-stressed conditions. A reduction in the amount of water applied resulted in a significant decrease in leaf gas exchange and, subsequently, in above-ground dry mass and grain yield, that varied among genotypes and distance from the line source. The comparison between the variable J and the Delta values in recently synthesized sugars methods, yielded congruent estimations of mesophyll conductance (g(m)), confirming the reliability of these two techniques. Our data demonstrate that g(m) is a major determinant of photosynthesis (A), because rice genotypes with inherently higher g(m) were capable of keeping higher A in stressed conditions. Furthermore, A, g(s), and g(m) of water-stressed genotypes rapidly recovered to the well-watered values upon the relief of water stress, indicating that drought did not cause any lasting metabolic limitation to photosynthesis. The comparisons between the A/C(i) and corresponding A/C(c) curves, measured in the genotypes that showed intrinsically higher and lower instantaneous A, confirmed this finding. Moreover, the effect of drought stress on grain yield was correlated with the effects on both A and total diffusional limitations to photosynthesis. Overall, these data indicate that genotypes which showed higher photosynthesis and conductances were also generally more productive across the entire soil moisture gradient. The analysis of Delta revealed a substantial variation of water use efficiency among the genotypes, both on the long-term (leaf pellet analysis) and short-term scale (leaf soluble sugars analysis).
19443620	Radial oxygen loss (ROL) and root porosity of rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants grown in either aerated or deoxygenated (stagnant) conditions were combined for the first time with extensive histochemical and biochemical studies of the apoplastic barriers in the roots' peripheral cell layers. Growth in stagnant solution significantly affected structural and, consequently, the physiological features of rice roots. It increased adventitious root porosity by about 20% and decreased the ROL towards the base to zero at a distance of 40 mm from the apex. By contrast, roots of plants grown in aerated solutions revealed the highest rates of ROL at 30 mm from the apex. Differences in the ROL pattern along the root were related to histochemical studies, which showed an early development of Casparian bands and suberin lamellae in the exodermis, and lignified sclerenchyma cells in roots of plants grown in deoxygenated solution. In agreement with anatomical studies, absolute contents of suberin and lignin in the outer part of the roots (OPR) were higher in plants grown in deoxygenated solution. Regardless of growth conditions, the levels of suberin and lignin increased along the roots towards the base. It is concluded that radial oxygen loss can be effectively restricted by the formation of a suberized exodermis and/or lignified sclerenchyma in the OPR. However, the relative contribution of suberin and lignin in the formation of a tight barrier is unclear. Knowing the permeability coefficient across OPR for roots of plants grown in both conditions will allow a more precise understanding of the mechanisms controlling ROL.
19445100	Azolla (Salviniales: Azollaceae) is known to reduce oviposition and adult emergence of a number of mosquito species. Several species of Azolla are reportedly indigenous to Tanzania. However, the potential of Azolla as a biocontrol agent against malaria mosquitoes has not been evaluated in the country. This cross-sectional study was carried out to assess mosquito larval productivity in irrigated rice-fields infested with Azolla in Mvomero District, Tanzania. A systematic larval sampling covering all open water bodies along designed transect was carried in rice-fields. Larval density was estimated by dipping water bodies with or without Azolla. The degree of Azolla coverage was categorized as 0%, <50%, 50%, and >80%. Larvae densities were categorised as low (<50/m2), medium (50-500/m2) and high (> or = 500/m2) productivity. A total of 120 water bodies were surveyed and 105 (87.5%) had Azolla microphyla and A. pinnata at varying degrees of coverage. Of the total 105 water bodies with Azolla, 80 (76.2%) had a green Azolla mat, and 25 (23.8%) a brown Azolla mat. Eighty-eight (73.3%) of the sites were infested with anophelines and 109 (90.8%) with culicine larvae. Seventy percent of all water bodies contained anophelines and culicines in sympatric breeding, while 20.8% and 3.3% had only culicines and anophelines, respectively. The majority (82%) of mosquito breeding sites were found in area with Azolla substrate. Mosquito larva productivity was low in sites with highest (>80%) Azolla coverage. Seventy-two (81.8%) of the anopheline and 90 (82.6%) culicine breeding sites were infested with Azolla. Water bodies infested with green Azolla were more productive than those covered by brown coloured Azolla substrates for both culicines (13%) and anophelines (8%). Of the 1537 field collected larvae that hatched to adult stage, 646 (42.03%) were Anopheles gambiae s.l., 42 (2.73%) were An. funestus and 769 (50.03%) were Culex quinquefasciatus. These findings suggest that the mosquito productivity is low when the Azolla coverage is high (>80%). The promotion of Azolla in mosquito control should take into consideration the degree of Azolla coverage.
19445102	Food cravings, aversions and pica are common during pregnancy and may have a significant input on pregnancy progress and outcome. A study was carried out to determine the frequency and duration of pronounced dietary cravings, aversions and pica during pregnancy among 204 pregnant and lactating women attending two health facilities in Dar es Salaam City, Tanzania. Nausea and vomiting were reported by 82.8% of all women of which 43.2% experienced severe nausea alone, 9.5% severe vomiting alone and 35.5% experienced severe vomiting and nausea. Mild cases of each of the symptoms either occurring alone or both of them occurring together were also reported. Both behaviours were observed more in <3 months of pregnancy. The proportions of women with dietary cravings, aversions, and pica were 73.5%, 70.1% and 63.7% of all women respectively. More women (70.1%) experienced both food cravings and aversions than either symptom alone. Foods craved most were meat (23.3%), mangoes (22.7%), yoghurt (20.0%) oranges (20.0%), plantain (15.3%) and soft drinks (13.3%). Foods avoided most were rice (36.4%), meat (36.4%) and fish (30.8%). Eggs, beans, tea and stiff porridge were also avoided. Reasons given for avoiding foods were unpleasant smell/taste (10.3%), to reduce nausea (11.8%), no particular reason (58.3%) and dislike by foetus (belief) (3.9%). Pica was experienced by 63.7%% of the women and soil, ice and ash were the most commonly non-food substances eaten. The frequency of nausea and vomiting was highest in the early months of pregnancy and most women experienced the symptoms during morning hours. Craving in most women was more intense in the first trimesters. Most women craved for meat and sour and savoury foods, and avoided rice, meat and fish. Soil consumption was the pica observed in most women. Since aversions and cravings are closely linked to dietary intake of pregnant woman understanding these behaviours is important in addressing maternal nutrition.
19445113	Poecilobdetla manillensis were divided into different groups with dissimilar number in the wet rice field soil and kept hibernating at room temperature. The results showed that the survival rates decreased along with the increase of the number in different groups. When the number of P. manillensis over 1 800 leech per square meter, the survival rate decreased significantly. However, it wasn't different from the rate of the group which number was below 1500 leech per square meter (P > 0.05). The net weight of various groups decreased about 10.4%-15.6% respectively after hibernation and there was no significant difference among groups (P > 0.05). It is concluded that rice field soil is suitable for the hibernation of P. manillensis.
19445228	Automatic detection of weeds is necessary for site--specific application of herbicides or precise physical weed control. Leaf reflectance is mainly determined by photosynthetic pigments, leaf structural properties and water content, so spectral reflectance characteristics can be used for weed discrimination. The spectral reflectance of cotton, rice and weeds was determined in the range from 350 to 2 500 nm using the Analytical Spectral Device Full Range FieldSpec Pro (ASD) in laboratory. The discrimination analysis was done using the statistical software package SAS. The characteristic wavelengths were selected by using STEPDISC procedure. With the selected characteristic wavelengths, discriminant models were developed using the DISCRIM procedure in SAS. For distinguishing spine-greens from cotton, three characteristic wavelengths, 385, 415, and 435 nm, were selected, and good classification performance (100% accuracy) was achieved. The combination of characteristic wavelengths 415 and 435 nm has the biggest contribution to discrimination model. For distinguishing barnyard-grass from rice, five characteristic wavelengths, 375, 465, 585, 705, and 1 035 nm, were selected, and also good classification performance (100% accuracy) was obtained. The transition point from yellow to orange wavelength (585 nm) and the wavelength 705 nm in the red edge contributed more to discrimination model.
19445263	Ultra Rice grains are micronutrient-fortified, extruded rice grains designed to address specific nutritional deficiencies in populations where rice is a staple food. Vitamin A and some of the B vitamins, as well as iron and zinc, are target nutrients for fortification through Ultra Rice technology. Vitamin A is sensitive to degradation. Therefore, the original Ultra Rice formulations included stabilizers, some of which were not approved as food additives in all of the receiving markets. To develop a new antioxidant system for improving vitamin A storage stability in Ultra Rice grains, while complying with international food regulations. Ten formulations were prepared containing various combinations of hydrophilic and hydrophobic antioxidants, as well as moisture stabilizers. Accelerated vitamin A storage stability tests were conducted at 25 degrees, 35 degrees, and 45 degrees C with 70% to 100% relative humidity. The most stable samples contained one or more phenolic antioxidants, a water-soluble antioxidant, and stabilizing agents. The best results were obtained by using butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) in combination with butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) as the hydrophobic antioxidants and ascorbic acid as the hydrophilic antioxidant. Citric acid and sodium tripolyphosphate (STPP) were used to chelate metal ions and to stabilize moisture, respectively. The best formulations retained more than 85% and approximately 70% of the added vitamin A at 25 degrees and 45 degrees C, respectively, after 24 weeks storage. The best antioxidant system, composed of generally accepted food additives, improved vitamin A stability while reducing the price, thus greatly improving the commercial viability of Ultra Rice grains for use as a ricefortificant.
19446363	This experiment assessed the effect of partial physical desiccation on plant regeneration efficiency in scutellum-derived embryogenic calluses of rice (Oryza sativa L.) variety Super basmati. A number of callusing cultures were developed, and efficient callus induction was observed on MS (Murashige and Skoog) basal medium supplemented with 2.0mg/L 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid. The calluses were proliferated on the same medium for 3 weeks and then shifted to dehydration desiccation treatment for 72h. The desiccated calluses were cultured on different media for somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. A medium with 2.0mg/L alpha-napthaleneacetic acid, 10.0mg/L abscisic acid , 2.0mg/L kinetin was best for somatic embryogenesis only, but not for further plant development. After 10d, differentiated calluses were sub-cultured on medium with various concentrations and types of carbohydrates (carbon source) in (1)MS(2j) medium. A large number of plantlets (14.51+/-2.81 and 8.56+/-2.90 plants/callus) were regenerated via chemical desiccation, on MS with 3% maltose+3% sorbitol and 6% sucrose, respectively. Under dehydration on only simple MS (3% sucrose), 11.23+/-3.22 plants/callus were developed. Under conditions of dehydration and chemical desiccation, plant regeneration rates were higher than the calluses cultured on simple MS medium in the presence of plant growth regulator. After somatic embryogenesis, >25% plants were sterile. The protocol used here may allow maximum regeneration of normal and fertile plantlets of super basmati rice within 3 months.
19447341	Sake yeast can produce high levels of ethanol in concentrated rice mash. While both sake and laboratory yeast strains belong to the species Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the laboratory strains produce much less ethanol. This disparity in fermentation activity may be due to the strains' different responses to environmental stresses, including ethanol accumulation. To obtain more insight into the stress response of yeast cells under sake brewing conditions, we carried out small-scale sake brewing tests using laboratory yeast strains disrupted in specific stress-related genes. Surprisingly, yeast strains with disrupted ubiquitin-related genes produced more ethanol than the parental strain during sake brewing. The elevated fermentation ability conferred by disruption of the ubiquitin-coding gene UBI4 was confined to laboratory strains, and the ubi4 disruptant of a sake yeast strain did not demonstrate a comparable increase in ethanol production. These findings suggest different roles for ubiquitin in sake and laboratory yeast strains.
19447374	About 25,000 rice T-DNA insertional mutant lines were generated using the vector pCAS04 which has both promoter-trapping and activation-tagging function. Southern blot analysis revealed that about 40% of these mutants were single copy integration and the average T-DNA insertion number was 2.28. By extensive phenotyping in the field, quite a number of agronomically important mutants were obtained. Histochemical GUS assay with 4,310 primary mutants revealed that the GUS-staining frequency was higher than that of the previous reports in various tissues and especially high in flowers. The T-DNA flanking sequences of some mutants were isolated and the T-DNA insertion sites were mapped to the rice genome. The flanking sequence analysis demonstrated the different integration pattern of the right border and left border into rice genome. Compared with Arabidopsis and poplar, it is much varied in the T-DNA border junctions in rice.
19447378	Simultaneous heading of plants within the same rice variety, also refer to heading synchrony, is an important factor that affects simultaneous ripening of the variety. Understanding of the genetic basis of heading synchrony may contribute to molecular breeding of rice with simultaneous heading and ripening. In the present study, a doubled haploid (DH) population, derived from a cross between Chunjiang 06 and TN1 was used to analyze quantitative trait locus (QTL) for heading synchrony related traits, i.e., early heading date (EHD), late heading date (LHD), heading asynchrony (HAS), and tiller number (PN). A total of 19 QTLs for four traits distributed on nine chromosomes were detected in two environments. One QTL, qHAS-8 for HAS, explained 27.7% of the phenotypic variation, co-located with the QTLs for EHD and LHD, but it was only significant under long-day conditions in Hangzhou, China. The other three QTLs, qHAS-6, qHAS-9, and qHAS-10, were identified under short-day conditions in Hainan, China, each of which explained about 11% of the phenotypic variation. Two of them, qHAS-6 and qHAS-9, were co-located with the QTLs for EHD and LHD. Two QTLs, qPN-4 and qPN-5 for PN, were detected in Hangzhou, and qPN-5 was also detected in Hainan. However, none of them was co-located with QTLs for EHD, LHD, and HAS, suggesting that PN and HAS were controlled by different genetic factors. The results of this study can be useful in marker assisted breeding for improvement of heading synchrony.
19447379	To assess the indica-japonica differentiation of improved rice varieties, a total of 512 modern varieties including 301 indica and 211 japonica accessions were analyzed using 36 microsatellites. The Fst coefficients ranged from 0.002 to 0.730 among the loci with an average of 0.315. Significant differentiation was detected at 94.4% of the loci studied (P < 0.05, pairwise Fst tests), indicating that there was a high level of indica-japonica differentiation within the improved varieties. At 18 loci, about 74%-98% of the alleles of indica and japonica accessions were distributed in two ranges of amplicon length. Linkage disequilibrium analysis showed that the distribution trends were significantly nonrandomly associated. Using the differentiation trends at the 18 loci, microsatellite index (MI) was proposed for discrimination of the two subspecies. When rice accessions with MI value greater than zero were classified as indica, and those with MI value smaller than zero were classified as japonica, about 96.1% of the accessions could be classified. This result agrees with the classification based on morphological-physiological characters, indicating that this method is feasible and effective.
19448038	The Triticeae Full-Length CDS Database (TriFLDB) contains available information regarding full-length coding sequences (CDSs) of the Triticeae crops wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) and includes functional annotations and comparative genomics features. TriFLDB provides a search interface using keywords for gene function and related Gene Ontology terms and a similarity search for DNA and deduced translated amino acid sequences to access annotations of Triticeae full-length CDS (TriFLCDS) entries. Annotations consist of similarity search results against several sequence databases and domain structure predictions by InterProScan. The deduced amino acid sequences in TriFLDB are grouped with the proteome datasets for Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), rice (Oryza sativa), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) by hierarchical clustering in stepwise thresholds of sequence identity, providing hierarchical clustering results based on full-length protein sequences. The database also provides sequence similarity results based on comparative mapping of TriFLCDSs onto the rice and sorghum genome sequences, which together with current annotations can be used to predict gene structures for TriFLCDS entries. To provide the possible genetic locations of full-length CDSs, TriFLCDS entries are also assigned to the genetically mapped cDNA sequences of barley and diploid wheat, which are currently accommodated in the Triticeae Mapped EST Database. These relational data are searchable from the search interfaces of both databases. The current TriFLDB contains 15,871 full-length CDSs from barley and wheat and includes putative full-length cDNAs for barley and wheat, which are publicly accessible. This informative content provides an informatics gateway for Triticeae genomics and grass comparative genomics. TriFLDB is publicly available at http://TriFLDB.psc.riken.jp/.
19448729	The mutations that convey the white pericarp phenotype to rice (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica) are in a regulatory gene, Rc. We have identified a genetic difference between the cultivar 'Perla' and its natural red rice mutant 'Perla Rosso' in the Rc gene. The deletion of a G base restores the reading frame for the Rc gene, lost by the original 14 bp deletion that gave rise to white rice.
19448988	As the sole ubiquitous signal GTP-binding protein in plants, Rac gene plays an important role in plant growth and development. Using another Rac gene osRACD as probe, we obtained a novel Rac gene osRACB from rice by screening the cDNA library of Nongken 58NLD young ears at formation stage of pistil and stamen under low stringent hybridization condition. The osRACB transcription unit was 2930 bp in length, composed of seven exons and six introns. In addition, the osRACB promoter was isolated by screening rice genomic DNA library. Southern blotting analysis revealed that osRACB was a low abundance gene in the nuclear genome. RT-PCR results suggested that osRACB was expressed in roots, stems and leaves, but the expression level in stems was much higher than that in other organs. Based on the human Rac1 model, we predicted the three-dimensional structure of osRACB by the Homology and Discover modules of Insight II.
19449578	A field experiment was conducted to study the characteristics of paddy field nitrogen (N) leakage and runoff under rice-duck farming (MRD), conventional farming (MR), and conventional farming with flooding (CK). Comparing with that under MR, the paddy field under MRD had a notable decrease of N (especially NO3- -N) concentration in its leaked liquid; but this concentration was tended to be increased, compared with that under CK. After 7-9 days of fertilization, the NH4+ -N and NO3- -N concentrations in paddy field surface water were higher under MRD than under MR. However, owing to the no draining and the higher band, the paddy field under MRD had a notable reduction of drainage, resulting in a marked decrease of N runoff than that under MR. Comparing with MR, the paddy field under MRD had an addition of nitrogen supply from duck dung, a reduction of N leakage and runoff, a lesser application of chemical nitrogen fertilizer, and more nitrogen uptake by rice plant. Both the reduction of N input and that of N output in rice-duck farming system were nearly equal in quantity.
19449807	Iron bioavailability from supplements and fortificants varies depending upon the form of the iron and the presence or absence of iron absorption enhancers and inhibitors. Our objectives were to compare the effects of pH and selected enhancers and inhibitors and food matrices on the bioavailability of iron in soluble ferric pyrophosphate (SFP) to other iron fortificants using a Caco-2 cell culture model with or without the combination of in vitro digestion. Ferritin formation was the highest in cells treated with SFP compared to those treated with other iron compounds or chelates. Exposure to pH 2 followed by adjustment to pH 7 markedly decreased FeSO(4) bioavailability but had a smaller effect on bioavailabilities from SFP and sodium iron(III) ethylenediaminetetraacetate (NaFeEDTA), suggesting that chelating agents minimize the effects of pH on iron bioavailability. Adding ascorbic acid (AA) and cysteine to SFP in a 20:1 molar ratio increased ferritin formation by 3- and 2-fold, respectively, whereas adding citrate had no significant effect on the bioavailability of SFP. Adding phytic acid (10:1) and tannic acid (1:1) to iron decreased iron bioavailability from SFP by 91 and 99%, respectively. The addition of zinc had a marked inhibitory effect on iron bioavailability. Calcium and magnesium also inhibited iron bioavailability but to a lesser extent. Incorporating SFP in rice greatly reduced iron bioavailability from SFP, but this effect can be partially reversed with the addition of AA. SFP and FeSO(4) were taken up similarly when added to nonfat dry milk. Our results suggest that dietary factors known to enhance and inhibit iron bioavailability from various iron sources affect iron bioavailability from SFP in similar directions. However, the magnitude of the effects of iron absorption inhibitors on SFP iron appears to be smaller than on iron salts, such as FeSO(4) and FeCl(3). This supports the hypothesis that SFP is a promising iron source for food fortification and dietary supplements.
19449811	As rice bran tocotrienol (T3) has been known to have a wide range of physiological functions (e.g., antiangiogenesis), we aimed at developing a T3-rich rice variety for nutraceutical purposes. T3 content in more than 250 kinds of rice bran samples were investigated, and Milyang23 was found as the best variety rich in T3. The variety was therefore chosen for cross-fertilization with Koshihikari. Among obtained F(2) progenies, some of them became improved in T3 content (up to 2-fold of reference Koshihikari). QTL analysis of the F(2) progenies revealed five putative loci corresponding to T3 biosynthesis, in which the main loci were located near a marker RM3827 on chromosome 6. The results show that cross-breeding is effective in improving rice bran T3 and provides more genetic understanding on T3 biosynthesis in rice plants.
19450323	An estimated 4000 million cases of diarrhoea occurred worldwide in 1996, resulting in 2.5 million deaths. We conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the following clinical questions: What are the effects of treatments for acute diarrhoea in adults living in resource-rich countries? What are the effects of treatments for acute mild-to-moderate diarrhoea in adults from resource-rich countries traveling to resource-poor countries? What are the effects of treatments for acute mild-to-moderate diarrhoea in adults living in resource-poor countries? What are the effects of treatments for acute severe diarrhoea in adults living in resource-poor countries? We searched: Medline, Embase, The Cochrane Library and other important databases up to January 2007 (Clinical Evidence reviews are updated periodically, please check our website for the most up-to-date version of this review). We included harms alerts from relevant organisations such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). We found 71 systematic reviews, RCTs, or observational studies that met our inclusion criteria. We performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of evidence for interventions. In this systematic review we present information relating to the effectiveness and safety of the following interventions: antibiotics, antimotility agents, antisecretory agents, bismuth subsalicylate, diet, intravenous rehydration, nasogastric tube rehydration, and oral rehydration solutions (amino acid oral rehydration solution, bicarbonate oral rehydration solution, reduced osmolarity oral rehydration solution, rice-based oral rehydration solution, standard oral rehydration solution).
19450537	Agricultural activities, among other factors, can influence the transmission of malaria. In two villages of central Côte d'Ivoire (Tiémélékro and Zatta) with distinctively different agro-ecological characteristics, we assessed Plasmodium prevalence rates, fever and clinically confirmed malaria episodes among children aged 15 years and below by means of repeated cross-sectional surveys. Additionally, presumptive malaria cases were monitored in dispensaries for a 4-year period. In Tiémélékro, we observed a decrease in malaria prevalence rates from 2002 to 2005, which might be partially explained by changes in agricultural activities from subsistence farming to cash crop production. In Zatta, where an irrigated rice perimeter is located in close proximity to human habitations, malaria prevalence rates in 2003 were significantly lower than in 2002 and 2005, which coincided with the interruption of irrigated rice farming in 2003/2004. Although malaria transmission differed by an order of magnitude in the two villages in 2003, there was no statistically significant difference between the proportions of severe malaria episodes (i.e. axillary temperature>37.5 degrees C plus parasitaemia>5000 parasites/microl blood). Our study underscores the complex relationship between malaria transmission, prevalence rate and the dynamics of malaria episodes. A better understanding of local contextual determinants, including the effect of agricultural activities, will help to improve the local epidemiology and control of malaria.
19450961	Rice hulls and sawdust are two common C-rich wastes derived from rice and timber agro-industries in subtropical NE Argentina. An alternative to the current management of these wastes (from bedding to uncontrolled burning) is composting. However, given their C-rich nature and high C/N ratio, adequate composting requires mixing with a N-rich waste, such as poultry manure. The effect of different proportions of poultry manure, rice hulls and/or sawdust on composting efficiency and final compost quality was studied. Five piles were prepared with a 2:1 and 1:1 ratio of sawdust or rice hulls to poultry manure, and 1:1:1 of all three materials (V/V). Different indicators of compost stability and quality were measured. Thermophilic phase was shorter for piles with rice hulls than for piles with sawdust (60 days vs. 105 days). Time required for stability was similar for both C-rich wastes (about 180 days). Characteristics of final composts were: pH 5.8-7.2, electrical conductivity 2.5-3.3 mS/cm, organic C 20-26%, total N 2.2-2.9%, lignin 19-22%, total Ca 18-24 g/kg, and extractable P 6-8 g/kg, the latter representing 60% of total P. Nitrogen conservation was high in all piles, especially in the one containing both C-rich wastes. Piles with sawdust were characterized by high total and available N, while piles with only rice hulls had higher Si, K and pH. Extractable P was higher in 1:1 piles, and organic C in 2:1 piles.
19452112	In this study, the acute toxicity (72-h EC50 values) of chiral diclofop acid towards rice Xiushui 63 seedlings and its effects on the Hill reaction activities of chloroplasts were determined. Significant differences were observed between the two enantiomers in 72-h EC50 values and in both in vivo and in vitro relative Hill reaction activities. These observations indicate that the enantiomers of diclofop acid pose different toxicities to rice seedlings: the S-enantiomer is more toxic to leaves and the R-enantiomer is more toxic to roots. These enantioselective toxic effects on rice seedlings should be taken into account in chiral herbicide application.
19452116	We performed this study to determine whether both eating cadmium (Cd)-polluted rice and drinking and/or cooking with Jinzu River water are associated with renal tubular dysfunction. A multiple logistic regression analysis of retrospective data indicated that both factors may contribute to this condition. Estimated threshold values of rice Cd concentration in men were 0.13-0.27 ppm and 0.09-0.18 ppm in women, without adjustment for use of Jinzu River water. The additional influence of drinking and/or cooking with Jinzu River water was estimated to be about 0.008 ppm.
19452284	The agricultural residues, wheat bran and rice hulls, were used as substrates for cellulase production with Trichoderma sp 3.2942 by solid-state fermentation. Microwave irradiation was employed to pretreat the substrates in order to increase the susceptibility. Although the highest cellulase yield was obtained by the substrates pretreated by 450 W microwave for 3 min, pretreatment time and microwave power had no significant effect on cellulase production. The initial reducing sugar content (RSC) of substrates was decreased by microwave irradiation, but more reducing sugars were produced in later fermentation. Alkali pretreatment combined with microwave pretreatment (APCMP) of rice hulls could significantly increase cellulase yields and reducing sugar. The maximum filter paper activity, carboximethylcellulase (CMC)ase, and RSC were increased by 35.2%, 21.4%, and 13%, respectively, compared with those of untreated rice hulls. The fermented residues could produce more cellulase and reducing sugars than fresh rice hulls after they were treated by APCMP. The increased accessibility of the substrates by microwave pretreatment was mainly achieved by rupture of the rigid structure of rice hulls. However, for alkali pretreatment and APCMP, delignification and removal of ash played very important roles for increasing the acceptability of substrates.
19452444	Azoxystrobin [methyl (E)-2-{2-[6-(2-cyanophenoxy)pyrimidin-4-yloxy]phenyl}-3-methoxyacrylate], a strobilurin fungicide, is a broad-spectrum, systemic and soil-applied fungicide. Azoxystrobin has been registered for rice cultivation in India, but no information is available on its leaching behaviour in Indian soils. Therefore, leaching behaviour of azoxystrobin was studied in packed and intact soil columns under different irrigation regimes. Azoxystrobin did not leach out of the 300 mm long columns after 126 and 362 mm rainfall. After percolating water equivalent to 362 mm rainfall, azoxystrobin leached down to 10-15 cm (packed columns) and 15-20 cm (intact columns) depth. Azoxystrobin was not detected in the leachate from the packed column leached with 94.5 mL water every week (140 mm rainfall per month) during the 28 weeks of the study period. However, azoxystrobin acid, formed by azoxystrobin degradation, was detected in the leachate after 18 weeks. At the end of the study, azoxystrobin had leached down to 5-10 cm depth, and only 60% of initially applied azoxystrobin was recovered from the soil. The results indicate that azoxystrobin is fairly immobile in sandy loam soil, but azoxystrobin acid, a major metabolite of azoxystrobin, is quite mobile and may pose a threat of soil and groundwater contamination.
19453432	Mosses (Bryophyta) are nonvascular plants that constitute a large part of the photosynthesizing biomass and carbon storage on Earth. Little is known about how this important portion of flora maintains its health status. This study assessed whether the moss, Physcomitrella patens, responds to treatment with chitosan, a fungal cell wall-derived compound inducing defense against fungal pathogens in vascular plants. Application of chitosan to liquid culture of P. patens caused a rapid increase in peroxidase activity in the medium. For identification of the peroxidase(s), matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF)/MS, other methods and the whole-genome sequence of P. patens were utilized. Peroxidase gene knock-out mutants were made and inoculated with fungi. The peroxidase activity resulted from a single secreted class III peroxidase (Prx34) which belonged to a P. patens specific phylogenetic cluster in analysis of the 45 putative class III peroxidases of P. patens and those of Arabidopsis and rice. Saprophytic and pathogenic fungi isolated from another moss killed the Prx34 knockout mutants but did not damage wild-type P. patens. The data point out the first specific host factor that is pivotal for pathogen defense in a nonvascular plant. Furthermore, results provide conclusive evidence that class III peroxidases in plants are needed in defense against hostile invasion by fungi.
19453444	Floral organ identity is defined by organ homoetic genes whose coordinated expression is crucial with respect to the time and place of floral organ formation. Here, we report molecular cloning and characterization of the rice STAMENLESS 1 (SL1) gene that is involved in floral development. The sl1 mutant largely resembles the rice B-class gene mutant spw1; both exhibit homeotic conversions of lodicules and stamens to palea/lemma-like organs and carpels. Additionally, sl1 produces flowers with varied numbers of inner floral organs, and amorphous tissues without floral organ identity were frequently formed in whorls 3 and 4. We also show that SL1 specifies lodicule and stamen identities through positive transcriptional regulation of SPW1/OsMADS16 expression. SL1 encodes a member of the C2H2 family of zinc finger proteins, closely related to JAG of Arabidopsis. The functional divergence between SL1 and JAG implies that SL1 was co-opted for its distinctive roles in specification of floral organ identity in rice after the lineage split from Arabidopsis.
19453445	The mechanisms by which biotrophic and hemi-biotrophic fungal pathogens simultaneously subdue plant defences and sequester host nutrients are poorly understood. Using metabolite fingerprinting, we show that Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, dynamically re-programmes host metabolism during plant colonization. Identical patterns of metabolic change occurred during M. grisea infections in barley, rice and Brachypodium distachyon. Targeted metabolite profiling by GC-MS confirmed the modulation of a conserved set of metabolites. In pre-symptomatic tissues, malate and polyamines accumulated, rather than being utilized to generate defensive reactive oxygen species, and the levels of metabolites associated with amelioration of redox stress in various cellular compartments increased dramatically. The activity of NADP-malic enzyme and generation of reactive oxygen species were localized to pathogen penetration sites, and both appeared to be suppressed in compatible interactions. Early diversion of the shikimate pathway to produce quinate was observed, as well as accumulation of non-polymerized lignin precursors. These data are consistent with modulation of defensive phenylpropanoid metabolism by M. grisea and the inability of susceptible hosts to mount a hypersensitive reaction or produce lignified papillae (both involving reactive oxygen species) to restrict pathogen invasion. Rapid proliferation of M. grisea hyphae in plant tissue after 3 days was associated with accelerated nutrient acquisition and utilization by the pathogen. Conversion of photoassimilate into mannitol and glycerol for carbon sequestration and osmolyte production appear to drive hyphal growth. Taken together, our results suggest that fungal pathogens deploy a common metabolic re-programming strategy in diverse host species to suppress plant defence and colonize plant tissue.
19453447	Chlorophyll degradation is an important phenomenon in the senescence process. It is necessary for the degradation of certain chlorophyll-protein complexes and thylakoid membranes during leaf senescence. Mutants retaining greenness during leaf senescence are known as 'stay-green' mutants. Non-functional type stay-green mutants, which possess defects in chlorophyll degradation, retain greenness but not leaf functionality during senescence. Here, we report a new stay-green mutant in rice, nyc3. nyc3 retained a higher chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b content than the wild-type but showed a decrease in other senescence parameters during dark incubation, suggesting that it is a non-functional stay-green mutant. In addition, a small amount of pheophytin a, a chlorophyll a-derivative without Mg(2+) ions in its tetrapyrrole ring, accumulated in the senescent leaves of nyc3. nyc3 shows a similar but weaker phenotype to stay green (sgr), another non-functional stay-green mutant in rice. The chlorophyll content of nyc3 sgr double mutants at the late stage of leaf senescence was also similar to that of sgr. Linkage analysis revealed that NYC3 is located near the centromere region of chromosome 6. Map-based cloning of genes near the centromere is very difficult because of the low recombination rate; however, we overcame this problem by using ionizing radiation-induced mutant alleles harboring deletions of hundreds of kilobases. Thus, it was revealed that NYC3 encodes a plastid-localizing alpha/beta hydrolase-fold family protein with an esterase/lipase motif. The possible function of NYC3 in the regulation of chlorophyll degradation is discussed.
19453457	We have previously isolated a rice gene encoding a histone deacetylase, OsHDAC1, and observed that its transgenic overexpression increases seedling root growth. To identify the transcriptional repression events that occur as a result of OsHDAC1 overexpression (OsHDAC1(OE)), a global profiling of root-expressed genes was performed on OsHDAC1(OE) or HDAC inhibitor-treated non-transgenic (NT) roots, in comparison with untreated NT roots. We selected 39 genes that are induced and repressed in HDAC inhibitor-treated NT and OsHDAC1(OE) roots, compared with NT roots, respectively. Interestingly, OsNAC6, a member of the NAM-ATAF-CUC (NAC) family, was identified as a key component of the OsHDAC1 regulon, and was found to be epigenetically repressed by OsHDAC1 overexpression. The root phenotype of OsNAC6 knock-out seedlings was observed to be similar to that of the OsHDAC1(OE) seedlings. Conversely, the root phenotype of the OsNAC6 overexpressors was similar to that of the OsHDAC1 knock-out seedlings. These observations indicate that OsHDAC1 negatively regulates the OsNAC6 gene that primarily mediates the alteration in the root growth of the OsHDAC1(OE) seedlings. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays of the OsNAC6 promoter region using antibodies specific to acetylated histones H3 and H4 revealed that OsHDAC1 epigenetically represses the expression of OsNAC6 by deacetylating K9, K14 and K18 on H3 and K5, K12 and K16 on H4.
19453459	RNA editing is the alteration of RNA sequences via insertion, deletion and conversion of nucleotides. In flowering plants, specific cytidine residues of RNA transcribed from organellar genomes are converted into uridines. Approximately 35 editing sites are present in the chloroplasts of higher plants; six pentatricopeptide repeat genes involved in RNA editing have been identified in Arabidopsis. However, although approximately 500 editing sites are found in mitochondrial RNAs of flowering plants, only one gene in Arabidopsis has been reported to be involved in such editing. Here, we identified rice mutants that are defective in seven specific RNA editing sites on five mitochondrial transcripts. Their various phenotypes include delayed seed germination, retarded growth, dwarfism and sterility. Mutant seeds from heterozygous plants are opaque. This mutation, named opaque and growth retardation 1 (ogr1), was generated by T-DNA insertion into a gene that encodes a pentatricopeptide repeat protein containing the DYW motif. The OGR1-sGFP fusion protein is localized to mitochondria. Ectopic expression of OGR1 in the mutant complements the altered phenotypes. We conclude that OGR1 is essential for RNA editing in rice mitochondria and is required for normal growth and development.
19453951	This study aims to maximize the yield of gamma-linolenic acid by a filamentous fungus, Mucor rouxii, using low cost production by solid-state fermentation. We optimized substrate types and culture conditions including inoculum size and temperature. The optimal growth of M. rouxii was found in the cultures inoculated with 5 x 10(5) spores g(-1) substrate. The fungal cells grew well on rice bran and soy bean meal, whereas a lower biomass was found in the cultures grown on polished rice, broken rice and spent malt grain. The GLA content was highly accumulated in rice bran ferment and its maximal content of about 6 g kg(-1) fermented mass was observed in the 5th-day culture grown at 30 degrees C. However, the GLA content in the rice bran ferment was not enhanced by low temperature. The GLA production of M. rouxii could be enhanced by optimizing the agricultural by-product substrates and culture condition. Low cost GLA production process was achieved, and fermented product containing GLA can be incorporated into feed additives without further oil extraction to alternate the expensive plant oils.
19454025	Simple modifications of typical rural house design can be an effective and relatively inexpensive method of reducing indoor mosquito vector densities and consequently decreasing malaria transmission. Public health scientists have shown the potential for house design to protect people against malaria, yet this type of intervention remains virtually ignored. A randomized-controlled study was, therefore, undertaken to determine the effects of this method of vector control on the density of indoor resting malaria vectors in a rice irrigation scheme area in lowlands of western Kenya. Ten treatment houses were modified with ceilings of papyrus mats and insecticide-treated netting (ITN) and tested against ten control houses without papyrus ceilings. To determine densities of mosquitoes resting in homes, the pyrethrum spray method was used to simultaneously collect indoor resting malaria vectors in intervention and control houses. Each house was sampled a total of eight times over a period of four months, resulting in a total of 80 sampling efforts for each treatment. Community response to such intervention was investigated by discussions with residents. Papyrus mats ceiling modification reduced house entry by Anopheles gambiae s.l and Anopheles funestus densities by between 78-80% and 86% respectively compared to unmodified houses. Geometric mean density of Anopheles gambiae s.l. and Anopheles funestus in modified houses were significantly lower (t(18) = 7.174, P < 0.0001 and t(18) = 2.52, P = 0.02, respectively) compared to controls. Unmodified houses were associated with relatively higher densities of malaria vectors. There was a 84% (OR 0.16, 95% CI 0.07-0.39, P < 0.0001) and 87% (OR 0.13, 95% CI 0.03-0.5, P = 0.0004) reduction in the odds of Anopheles gambiae s.l. and Anopheles funestus presence in modified houses, respectively, compared with unmodified houses. Residents responded favourably to this mode of vector control. House modifications involving insect screen ceilings made from locally available materials and small ITN incorporated in house construction have the potential to reduce human exposure to malaria vectors, and thus parasite infection, in a rice irrigation scheme area of western Kenya. Ceiling modification is likely to be acceptable and is expected to be of greatest benefit when used in combination with other malaria control strategies.
19454732	To subvert rice (Oryza sativa) host defenses, the devastating ascomycete fungus pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae produces a battery of effector molecules, including some with avirulence (AVR) activity, which are recognized by host resistance (R) proteins resulting in rapid and effective activation of innate immunity. To isolate novel avirulence genes from M. oryzae, we examined DNA polymorphisms of secreted protein genes predicted from the genome sequence of isolate 70-15 and looked for an association with AVR activity. This large-scale study found significantly more presence/absence polymorphisms than nucleotide polymorphisms among 1032 putative secreted protein genes. Nucleotide diversity of M. oryzae among 46 isolates of a worldwide collection was extremely low (theta=8.2x10(-5)), suggestive of recent pathogen dispersal. However, no association between DNA polymorphism and AVR was identified. Therefore, we used genome resequencing of Ina168, an M. oryzae isolate that contains nine AVR genes. Remarkably, a total of 1.68 Mb regions, comprising 316 candidate effector genes, were present in Ina168 but absent in the assembled sequence of isolate 70-15. Association analyses of these 316 genes revealed three novel AVR genes, AVR-Pia, AVR-Pii, and AVR-Pik/km/kp, corresponding to five previously known AVR genes, whose products are recognized inside rice cells possessing the cognate R genes. AVR-Pia and AVR-Pii have evolved by gene gain/loss processes, whereas AVR-Pik/km/kp has evolved by nucleotide substitutions and gene gain/loss.
19454733	Gibberellins (GAs) play important roles in regulating reproductive development, especially anther development. Our previous studies revealed that the MYB transcriptional factor GAMYB, an important component of GA signaling in cereal aleurone cells, is also important for anther development. Here, we examined the physiological functions of GA during anther development through phenotypic analyses of rice (Oryza sativa) GA-deficient, GA-insensitive, and gamyb mutants. The mutants exhibited common defects in programmed cell death (PCD) of tapetal cells and formation of exine and Ubisch bodies. Microarray analysis using anther RNAs of these mutants revealed that rice GAMYB is involved in almost all instances of GA-regulated gene expression in anthers. Among the GA-regulated genes, we focused on two lipid metabolic genes, a cytochrome P450 hydroxylase CYP703A3 and beta-ketoacyl reductase, both of which might be involved in providing a substrate for exine and Ubisch body. GAMYB specifically interacted with GAMYB binding motifs in the promoter regions in vitro, and mutation of these motifs in promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) transformants caused reduced GUS expression in anthers. Furthermore, a knockout mutant for CYP703A3 showed gamyb-like defects in exine and Ubisch body formation. Together, these results suggest that GA regulates exine formation and the PCD of tapetal cells and that direct activation of CYP703A3 by GAMYB is key to exine formation.
19455180	A high-resolution transcript linkage map of barley was created using a single doubled haploid (DH) mapping population, only 3'-end expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and only PCR-based assays. Cultivar 'Haruna Nijo' and an ancestral wild-form accession 'H602' were used as EST donors and crossing parents of the mapping population. Of the 10,366 primer sets developed from a non-redundant set of 3'EST sequences, 7700 sets generated useful amplicons and 3975 (52%) showed polymorphisms between the mapping parents. Of these, 2890 (28% of the total) were mapped by single nucleotide polymorphisms (1717), cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (933) and INDELs (240). The present work involves an estimated 9% of the genes of barley. Of the mapped ESTs, 2689 (93%) are formatted in the Affymetrix Barley 1 GeneChip and full-length cDNA sequences are available for 1039 (36%). Mapped ESTs show highest similarity with sequences in the wheat gene index (93%) and moderate similarity with rice (50%). Comparison of mapped EST positions and the rice pseudomolecule indicated collinear regions between two species; these are particularly conserved for the entire barley chromosome 3H and rice chromosome 1. These mapped genes, together with a systematically developed set of genetic resources, will make it easier to directly clone genes showing simple inheritance and to determine the genetic basis of complex traits. The information will contribute to the development of a framework for the physical mapping of barley, which is necessary for genome sequencing.
19455199	The nuclear pore complex (NPC) facilitates transport between nucleus and cytoplasm. The protein constituents of the NPC, termed nucleoporins (Nups), are conserved across a wide diversity of eukaryotes. In apparent exception to this, no nucleoporin genes have been identified in nucleomorph genomes. Nucleomorphs, nuclear remnants of once free-living eukaryotes, took up residence as secondary endosymbionts in cryptomonad and chlorarachniophyte algae. As these genomes are highly reduced, Nup genes may have been lost, or relocated to the host nucleus. However, Nup genes are often poorly conserved between species, so absence may be an artifact of low sequence similarity. We therefore constructed an evolutionary bioinformatic screen to establish whether the apparent absence of Nup genes in nucleomorph genomes is due to genuine absence or the inability of current methods to detect homologues. We searched green plant (Arabidopsis and rice), green alga (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii) and red alga (Cyanidioschyzon merolae) genomes, plus two nucleomorph genomes (Bigelowiella natans and Guillardia theta) with profile hidden Markov models (HMMs) from curated alignments of known vertebrate/yeast Nups. Since the plant, algal and nucleomorph genomes all belong to the kingdom Plantae, and are evolutionarily distant from the outgroup (vertebrate/yeast) training set, we use the plant and algal genomes as internal positive controls for the sensitivity of the searches in nucleomorph genomes. We find numerous Nup homologues in all plant and free-living algal species, but none in either nucleomorph genome. BLAST searches using identified plant and algal Nups also failed to detect nucleomorph homologues. We conclude that nucleomorph Nup genes have either been lost, being replaced by host Nup genes, or, that nucleomorph Nup genes have been transferred to the host nucleus twice independently; once in the evolution of the red algal nucleomorph and once in the green algal nucleomorph.
19455223	Some genomes are known to have incurred a genome doubling (tetraploidization) event in their evolutionary history, and this is reflected today in patterns of duplicated segments scattered throughout their chromosomes. These duplications may be used as data to "halve" the genome, i.e. to reconstruct the an cestral genome at the moment of tetraploidization, but the solution is often highly non-unique. To resolve this problem, we adapt the genome halving algorithm of El-Mabrouk and Sankoff to take account of an external reference genome. We apply this to reconstruct the tetraploid ancestor of maize, using either rice or sorghum as the reference.
19455514	Solid-state fermentation was carried out for the production of extra-cellular L-methioninase by Aspergillus flavipes (Bain and Sart.) using nine agro-industrial residues, namely wheat bran, rice bran, wheat flour, coconut seeds, cotton seeds, ground nut cake, lentil hulls, soya beans and chicken feathers. Chicken feathers were selected as solid substrate for L-methioninase production by A. flavipes. The maximum L-methioninase productivity (71.0 U/mg protein) and growth (11 mg protein/ml) of A. flavipes was obtained using alkali pretreated chicken feathers of 50% initial moisture content as substrate supplemented with D-glucose (1.0% w/v) and L-methionine (0.2% w/v). External supplementation of the fermentation medium with various vitamin sources has no overinductive effect on L-methioninase biosynthesis. The partially purified A. flavipes L-methioninase preparation showed highest activity (181 U/ml) at pH 8.0 with stability over a pH range (pH 6-8) for 2 h. L-methioninase activity was increased by preincubation of the enzyme for 2 h with Co(2+), Mn(2+), Cu(2+) and Mg(2+) and strongly inhibited by the presence of EDTA, NaN(3), Li(2+), Cd(2+), DMSO and 2-mercaptoethanol. The enzyme preparation has a broad substrate spectrum showing a higher affinity to deaminate L-glycine, N -acetylglucosamine and glutamic acid, in addition to their proteolytic activity against bovine serum albumin, casein, gelatin and keratin. The partially purified enzyme was found to be glyco-metalloproteinic in nature as concluded from the analytical and spectroscopic profiles of the enzyme preparation. The demethiolating activity of the enzyme was also visualized chromogenially.
1945604	Recent studies have indicated that enteral diets can play an important role in the treatment of persistent diarrhea. Khitchri, a local weaning food in Pakistan, is composed of rice and lentils, which have previously been shown to be well tolerated in many children with acute diarrhea. The effectiveness of a khitchri and yogurt (KY) diet, which is inexpensive and widely available in Pakistan, was studied. One hundred two weaned boys (6 to 36 months old) with persistent diarrhea were randomly assigned to receive either soy formula (group A) or the KY diet (group B) for 14 days. Group A also received the KY diet in addition to formula for days 8 through 14. Twenty-nine children did not complete the study because of severe infection (13) or their family's decision to leave the study early (9 in group A and 7 in group B). Sixty-six children successfully completed the study protocol; there were five clinical failures in group A and two in group B. On a comparable caloric intake, there was a significantly lower stool volume (group B: 38 +/- 16 [mean +/- SD] vs group A: 64 +/- 75 g/kg per day, P less than .05) and frequency (B: 4.4 +/- 2.0 vs. A: 6.6 +/- 4.2 stools per day, P less than .005) in children fed KY during the first week of therapy. Group B children also had a significantly greater weight gain than children in group A during the first week (B: 468 +/- 373 g/wk vs A: 68 +/- 286 g/wk, P less than .005).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
19457038	Fungicide resistance now exists in the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, necessitating the need for new active agents. Fungi isolated from habitats in Thailand were screened with reference to this problem. A new, reliable in vitro screening system based on a microdilution plate format was set up using a virulent strain of M. grisea THL 16. Culture broth extracts from approximately 800 fungal strains were investigated, one of these, Aschersonia luteola BCC 8774, was found to produce an active fungicidal compound, ascherxanthone B, with an IC(90) value of 0.58 microg ml(-1) (0.95 micromol l(-1)). An in vivo study of anti-blast efficacy of ascherxanthone B showed a positive effect in disease reduction. Previous report has shown that a species of Aschersonia produces ascherxanthone A. Research on the species, A. luteola BCC 8774, led to the discovery of related novel metabolite, ascherxanthone B with fungicidal properties. Current methods of rice blast control seem to fail leading to increase in crop losses. Our discovery of the anti-blast activity shown by ascherxanthone B is the first step in the development of a potentially novel fungicide.
19457242	Plant genome sequencing has resulted in the identification of a large number of uncharacterized genes. To investigate these unknown gene functions, several transient transformation systems have been developed as quick and convenient alternatives to the lengthy transgenic assay. These transient assays include biolistic bombardment, protoplast transfection and Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation, each having advantages and disadvantages depending on the research purposes. We present a novel transient assay based on cocultivation of young Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings with Agrobacterium tumefaciens in the presence of a surfactant which does not require any dedicated equipment and can be carried out within one week from sowing seeds to protein analysis. This Fast Agro-mediated Seedling Transformation (FAST) was used successfully to express a wide variety of constructs driven by different promoters in Arabidopsis seedling cotyledons (but not roots) in diverse genetic backgrounds. Localizations of three previously uncharacterized proteins were identified by cotransformation with fluorescent organelle markers. The FAST procedure requires minimal handling of seedlings and was also adaptable for use in 96-well plates. The high transformation efficiency of the FAST procedure enabled protein detection from eight transformed seedlings by immunoblotting. Protein-protein interaction, in this case HY5 homodimerization, was readily detected in FAST-treated seedlings with Förster resonance energy transfer and bimolecular fluorescence complementation techniques. Initial tests demonstrated that the FAST procedure can also be applied to other dicot and monocot species, including tobacco, tomato, rice and switchgrass. The FAST system provides a rapid, efficient and economical assay of gene function in intact plants with minimal manual handling and without dedicated device. This method is potentially ideal for future automated high-throughput analysis.
19457861	Phospholipase A(2) catalyzes the specific hydrolysis of the sn-2 acyl bond of various glycerophospholipids, producing fatty acids and lysophospholipids. Phospholipase A(2)s (PLA(2)s) constitute a large superfamily of enzymes whose products are important for a multitude of signal transduction processes, lipid mediator release, lipid metabolism, development, plant stress responses, and host defense. The crystal structure of rice (Oryza sativa) isoform 2 phospholipase A(2) has been determined to 2.0 A resolution using sulfur SAD phasing, and shows that the class XIb phospholipases have a unique structure compared with other secreted PLA(2)s. The N-terminal half of the chain contains mainly loop structure, including the conserved Ca(2+)-binding loop, but starts with a short 3(10)-helix and also includes two short anti-parallel beta-strands. The C-terminal half is folded into three anti-parallel alpha-helices, of which the two first are also present in other secreted PLA(2)s and contain the conserved catalytic histidine and calcium liganding aspartate residues. The structure is stabilized by six disulfide bonds. The water structure around the calcium ion binding site suggests the involvement of a second water molecule in the mechanism for hydrolysis, the water-assisted calcium-coordinate oxyanion mechanism. The octanoate molecule in the complex structure is bound in a hydrophobic pocket, which extends to the likely membrane interface and is proposed to model the binding of the product fatty acid. Due to the differences in structure, the suggested surface for binding to the membrane has a different morphology in the rice PLA(2) compared with other phospholipases.
19458029	The prevalence of metabolic syndrome was approximately 50% for Puerto Rican elders living in Massachusetts. Diet is known to be associated with metabolic syndrome. Little information exists regarding the dietary intakes of Puerto Ricans. We aimed to characterize the dietary patterns of 1167 Puerto Ricans (45-75 y) using principal components analysis and to further examine associations with metabolic syndrome. Factor solutions were examined for robustness using a random split sample. Adjusted means for metabolic syndrome components were calculated for factor quintiles. Logistic regression models examined associations between factors, metabolic syndrome, and its components. Analyses were also performed excluding subjects with diabetes. "Meat and French fries," "traditional," and "sweets" patterns emerged as most meaningful. A meat and French fries pattern was associated with higher blood pressure (systolic P-trend = 0.03 and diastolic < 0.001) and waist circumference (P-trend = 0.04). The traditional pattern was associated with lower HDL concentrations (P-trend = 0.007) and a higher likelihood of metabolic syndrome [odds ratio (OR): 1.7, 95% CI: 1.04, 2.7]). The sweets pattern was associated with lower HDL concentrations (P-trend < 0.001) and higher waist circumference (P-trend < 0.05). After excluding individuals with diabetes, the sweets pattern was no longer associated with fasting serum glucose and was associated with metabolic syndrome (OR: 1.8, 95% CI: 1.03, 3.3). Dietary patterns were significantly associated with metabolic syndrome and its components. More research is needed to make appropriate nutritional recommendations for this high-risk population.
19458115
19458265	Conflict/reconciliation between mitochondria and nuclei in plants is manifested by the fate of pollen (viable or nonviable) in the cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS)/fertility restoration (Rf) system. Through positional cloning, we identified a nuclear candidate gene, RETROGRADE-REGULATED MALE STERILITY (RMS) for Rf17, a fertility restorer gene for Chinese wild rice (CW)-type CMS in rice (Oryza sativa L.). RNA interference-mediated gene silencing of RMS restored fertility to a CMS plant, whereas its overexpression in the fertility restorer line induced pollen abortion. The mRNA expression level of RMS in mature anthers depended on cytoplasmic genotype, suggesting that RMS is a candidate gene to be regulated via retrograde signaling. We found that a reduced-expression allele of the RMS gene restored fertility in haploid pollen, whereas a normal-expression allele caused pollen to die in the CW-type CMS. RMS encodes a mitochondrial protein, 178 aa in length, of unknown function, unlike the majority of other Rf genes cloned thus far, which encode pentatricopeptide repeat proteins. The unique features of RMS provide novel insights into retrograde signaling and CMS.
19458933	The majority of 170 rice accessions used in this study were diverse landraces or varieties from a putative mini-core collection of Chinese germplasm along with some widely used parental lines in genetic analysis or breeding (a few from abroad). The population was genotyped using 84 SSR or InDel markers on chromosome 7 and 48 markers on other chromosomes. The phenotyping of heading date, plant height and panicle length were carried out in different locations for 2 years. Based on morphological characterization, distance-based clustering and model-based estimation of marker data, the population showed a predominant structure with two subpopulations in correspondence with indica and japonica subspecies. The estimation of linkage disequilibrium in 2 Mb windows varied along chromosome 7 and showed parallel changes with inter-subspecies differentiation of marker loci (Fst). Based on the mixed linear model considering population structure and family relatedness [i.e. the (Q + K) model], one to three associated markers (P < or = 0.0001) per trait per experiment were scanned out on rice chromosome 7. Most significant loci were repeated for the data from both field experiments while two loci were associated with two or three traits. Marker-based allelic effects were shown in a couple of associated markers as examples. The application of association results in breeding program was also discussed.
19459082	One new tetralone, monaspurpurone (1), was isolated from the EtOH extract of a yellow mutant of the fungus Monascus purpureus BCRC 38113 (Eurotiaceae) grown on rice, along with five known compounds, β-sitosteryl palmitate (2), ergosterol (3), ankaflavin (4), monascin (5) and p-nitrophenol (6). They were characterised on the basis of spectral analysis and comparison with literature data. All the isolates were also evaluated for the scavenging properties towards the DPPH in TLC autographic and spectroscopic assays.
19459370	To understand the effects of silicon on the growth and development of rice roots, a hydroponic experiment with 3 levels of silicon, i.e., no silicon (T1), 1.25 mmol silicon x L(-1) (T2), and 2 mmol silicon x L(-1) (T3), was conducted, using rice cultivars TN1 and Baixiangjing with high silicon uptake efficiency and Juanyejing and Hitomebore with low silicon uptake efficiency as test materials. The results showed that with the increase of silicon supply, the root dry mass, root-shoot ratio, lateral root number, and total root length of all test rice cultivars decreased, while the dry mass of above-ground parts, root number, and root diameter increased. Relatively higher silicon supply was beneficial to the differentiation and development of indefinite roots, but not favorable to the lateral roots. Under lower silicon supply, the root dry mass and root-shoot ratio of TN1 and Baixiangjing were significantly higher than those of Juanyejing and Hitomebore. Furthermore, the number of lateral roots and the total root length of Baixiangjing were also significantly higher than those of Juanyejing and Hitomebore. It was concluded that total root length and lateral root number were the main factors affecting rice silicon uptake efficiency.
19459394	To evaluate the effects of acid rain on the organic carbon decomposition in different acidity soils, a 40-day incubation test was conducted with the paddy soils of pH 5.48, 6.70 and 8.18. The soils were amended with 0 and 15 g x kg(-1) of rice straw, adjusted to the moisture content of 400 g x kg(-1) air-dried soil by using simulated rain of pH 6.0, 4.5, and 3.0, and incubated at 20 degrees C. The results showed that straw, acid rain, and soil co-affected the CO2 emission from soil system. The amendment of straw increased the soil CO2 emission rate significantly. Acid rain had no significant effects on soil organic carbon decomposition, but significantly affected the straw decomposition in soil. When treated with pH 3.0 acid rain, the amount of decomposed straw over 40-day incubation in acid (pH 5.48) and alkaline (pH 8.18) soils was 8% higher, while that in neutral soil (pH 6.70) was 15% lower, compared to the treatment of pH 6.0 rain. In the treatment of pH 3.0 acid rain, the decomposition rate of soil organic C in acid (pH 5.48) soil was 43% and 50% (P < 0.05) higher than that in neutral (pH 6.70) and alkaline (pH 8.18) soils, while the decomposition rate of straw in neutral soil was 17% and 16% (P < 0.05) lower than that in acid and alkaline soils, respectively.
19462321	Mineral element contents of five wild rice were analyzed, including mineral nutrient elements such as phosphorus (P), potassium (K), calcium (Ca), sodium (Na), magnesium (Mg), iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), manganese (Mn) and selenium (Se), and the potential toxic elements arsenic (As), mercury (Hg), lead (Pb) and cadmium (Cd). The results showed that the contents of K, Mg, Fe, Zn, Cu, Mn and Se in five wild rice materials were much higher than the cultivate variety Zhou 903 in both brown and milled rice. Wild rice also had lower potential toxic element contents of Hg, Pb and Cd compared with Zhou 903 in brown rice and milled rice, respectively. Among five wild rice samples, WR-3 from Uganda had the highest level of P, K, Ca, Na, Mg, Fe, Zn, Mn and Se, and the lowest contents of Hg, Pb and Cd.
19462978	A study of repeated oral administration of transgenic rice containing a hybrid peptide of major human T-cell epitopes (7Crp) from Japanese cedar pollen allergens was carried out in cynomolgus macaques over 26 weeks. The monkeys were divided into three groups, each comprising three males and three females, administered a high dose of transgenic rice, a low dose of transgenic rice, or a high dose of the parental rice strain. The transgenic rice 7crp#10 and the parental nontransgenic control were polished, steamed, mashed, and prepared in water at 40% (w/v). Monkeys were orally administered a high or low dose of transgenic rice or the nontransgenic control by gavage every day. No adverse effects on general behavior or body weight of animals were observed during the study. Analysis of blood from monkeys administered for 26 weeks showed that, with few exceptions, there were no significant differences in hematological or biochemical values between them. Additionally, neither pathological symptoms nor histopathological abnormalities were observed. Thus, it was concluded that oral administration of transgenic rice containing T-cell epitopes from Japanese cedar pollen allergens has no adverse effects.
19463186	Integration and exploration of data obtained from genome wide monitoring technologies has become a major challenge for many bioinformaticists and biologists due to its heterogeneity and high dimensionality. A widely accepted approach to solve these issues has been the creation and use of controlled vocabularies (ontologies). Ontologies allow for the formalization of domain knowledge, which in turn enables generalization in the creation of querying interfaces as well as in the integration of heterogeneous data, providing both human and machine readable interfaces. We designed and implemented a software tool that allows investigators to create their own semantic model of an organism and to use it to dynamically integrate expression data obtained from DNA microarrays and other probe based technologies. The software provides tools to use the semantic model to postulate and validate of hypotheses on the spatial and temporal expression and function of genes. In order to illustrate the software's use and features, we used it to build a semantic model of rice (Oryza sativa) and integrated experimental data into it. In this paper we describe the development and features of a flexible software application for dynamic gene expression data annotation, integration, and exploration called Orymold. Orymold is freely available for non-commercial users from http://www.oryzon.com/media/orymold.html.
19463189	Knowledge of some baseline entomological data such as Entomological Inoculation Rates (EIR) is crucially needed to assess the epidemiological impact of malaria control activities directed either against parasites or vectors. In Chad, most published surveys date back to the 1960's. In this study, anopheline species composition and their relation to malaria transmission were investigated in a dry Sudanian savannas area of Chad. A 12-month longitudinal survey was conducted in the irrigated rice-fields area of Goulmoun in south western Chad. Human landing catches were performed each month from July 2006 to June 2007 in three compounds (indoors and outdoors) and pyrethrum spray collections were conducted in July, August and October 2006 in 10 randomly selected rooms. Mosquitoes belonging to the Anopheles gambiae complex and to the An. funestus group were identified by molecular diagnostic tools. Plasmodium falciparum infection and blood meal sources were detected by ELISA. Nine anopheline species were collected by the two sampling methods. The most aggressive species were An. arabiensis (51 bites/human/night), An. pharoensis (12.5 b/h/n), An. funestus (1.5 b/h/n) and An. ziemanni (1.3 b/h/n). The circumsporozoite protein rate was 1.4% for An. arabiensis, 1.4% for An. funestus, 0.8% for An. pharoensis and 0.5% for An. ziemanni. Malaria transmission is seasonal, lasting from April to December. However, more than 80% of the total EIR was concentrated in the period from August to October. The overall annual EIR was estimated at 311 bites of infected anophelines/human/year, contributed mostly by An. arabiensis (84.5%) and An. pharoensis (12.2%). Anopheles funestus and An. ziemanni played a minor role. Parasite inoculation occurred mostly after 22:00 hours but around 20% of bites of infected anophelines were distributed earlier in the evening. The present study revealed the implication of An. pharoensis in malaria transmission in the irrigated rice fields of Goulmoun, complementing the major role played by An. arabiensis. The transmission period did not depend upon irrigation. Correct use of insecticide treated nets in this area may be effective for vector control although additional protective measures are needed to prevent pre-bedtime exposure to the bites of infected anophelines.
19463852	Rice, wheat, and potato starches were investigated using ultra-small angle X-Ray diffraction (USXRD) in the range of 100-58,000 A. The results showed trends consistent with the known sizes of starches. However, the observed Rg values for the scattering substances lie in the 100-300 nm range, very much in the low end of the known starch granule size distributions (and below the resolution of the light microscope) suggesting different, perhaps interesting, structures than those observed by light microscopy. Thus what were detected may possibly be the sizes of the crystalline regions postulated to occur in individual starch granules.
19463932	Pollen-mediated gene flow is the major pathway for transgene escape from GM rice to its wild relatives. Transgene escape to wild Oryza species having AA-genome will occur if GM rice is released to environments with these wild Oryza species. Transgenes may persist to and spread in wild populations after gene flow, resulting unwanted ecological consequences. For assessing the potential consequences caused by transgene escape, it is important to understand the actual gene flow frequencies from GM rice to wild relatives, transgene expression and inheritance in the wild relatives, as well as fitness changes that brought to wild relatives by the transgenes. This article reviews studies on transgene escape from rice to its wild relatives via gene flow and its ecological consequences. A framework for assessing potential ecological consequences caused by transgene escape from GM rice to its wild relatives is discussed based on studies of gene flow and fitness changes.
19464091	Socio-economic and individual lifestyle features associated with the nutritional state were examined in 7-9-year-old children of lower and lower middle-class families living under the international poverty line. Mild and moderate undernutrition was frequent but overweight also occurred. Three groups of sex- and age-matched randomly selected children from the Kolkata Child Nutrition Study (data collection between April and November 2001) attending public primary schools of North Kolkata participated (42 children of low body mass index (BMI<12 kg/m(2),=LBMI), 100 children of intermediate BMI (14-16 kg/m(2); IBMI) and 51 children of high BMI (>16 kg/m(2); HBMI). Individual and social characteristics of the three BMI categories were assessed using a structured interview of their families. Families of LBMI children owned more TV (83.3% versus 60%; p-value: 0.007) and spent less money for rice (80.4% versus 52.5% of the families spent less than 11 Indian rupees (INR) for rice/day, p<0.003) when compared to families of IBMI children while income of the families of the 2 groups was similar. The families of HBMI children had more income per head per day (62.5% versus 32% earned more than 19 INR/head/day, p<0.02). Lifestyle and socio-economic differences in families are associated with distinct variations in body weight of their children in a population living in a low income area in Kolkata. Various degrees of poverty may lead to a propensity to develop both, underweight and modest overweight.
19464188	The discovery of the sulfonamide herbicides, which inhibit the enzyme acetolactate synthase (ALS), has resulted in many investigations to exploit their herbicidal activity. One area which proved particularly productive was the N-aryltriazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine sulfonamides, providing three commercial herbicides, cloransulam-methyl, diclosulam and florasulam. Additional structure-activity investigations by reversing the sulfonamide linkage resulted in the discovery of triazolopyrimidine sulfonamides with cereal crop selectivity and high levels of grass and broadleaf weed control. Research efforts to exploit these high levels of weed activity ultimately led to the discovery of penoxsulam, a new herbicide developed for grass, sedge and broadleaf weed control in rice. Synthetic efforts and structure-activity relationships leading to the discovery of penoxsulam will be discussed.
19464858	This study is carried out to determine the potential of phytic acid extracted from rice bran in the suppression of colon carcinogenesis induced by azoxymethane (AOM) in rats. Seventy-two male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into 6 groups with 12 rats in each group. The intended rats for cancer treatment received two intraperitoneal injections of AOM in saline (15mg/kg bodyweight) over a 2-week period. The treatments of phytic acid were given in two concentrations: 0.2% (w/v) and 0.5% (w/v) during the post-initiation phase of carcinogenesis phase via drinking water. The colons of the animals were analyzed for detection and quantification of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) after 8 weeks of treatment. The finding showed treatment with 0.2% (w/v) extract phytic acid (EPA) gave the greatest reduction in the formation of ACF. In addition, phytic acid significantly suppressed the number of ACF in the distal, middle and proximal colon as compared to AOM alone (p<0.05). For the histological classification of ACF, treatment with 0.5% (w/v) commercial phytic acid (CPA) had the highest percentage (71%) of non-dysplastic ACF followed by treatment with 0.2% (w/v) EPA (61%). Administration of phytic acid also reduced the incidence and multiplicity of total tumors even though there were no significant differences between groups. In conclusion, this study found the potential value of phytic acid extracted from rice bran in reducing colon cancer risk in rats.
19465440	In previous studies, we attempted to reduce phytic acid in rice seeds by silencing the 1d-myo-inositol 3-phosphate synthase gene, RINO1, using an antisense sequence under the control of the rice glutelin GluB-1 promoter. The stable transgenic line showed a weak low phytic acid phenotype. In this study, we show that the position of the caryopsis in the panicle might affect the level of gene silencing through a difference in temporal and spatial expression patterns between RINO1 and GluB-1 promoters, resulting in a large variation in Pi levels and a small increase in Pi in the transgenic seeds.
19465536	The incorporation of rice residues into paddy fields strongly enhances methane production and emissions. Although the decomposition processes of plant residues in rice field soil has been documented, the structure and dynamics of the microbial communities involved are poorly understood. The purpose of the present study was to determine the dynamics of short-chain fatty acids and the structure of bacterial communities during residue decomposition in a rice field soil. The soil was anaerobically incubated with the incorporation of rice root or straw residues for 90 days at three temperatures (15, 30, and 45 degrees C). The dynamics of fatty acid intermediates showed an initial cumulative phase followed by a rapid consumption phase and a low-concentration quasi-steady state. Correspondingly, the bacterial populations displayed distinct successions during residue decomposition. Temperature showed a strong effect on the dynamics of bacterial populations. Members of Clostridium (clusters I and III) were most dominant in the incubations, particularly in the early successions. Bacteroidetes and Chlorobi were abundant in the later successions at 15 and 30 degrees C, while Acidobacteria were selected at 45 degrees C. We suggest that the early successional groups are responsible for the decomposition of the easily degradable fraction of residues, while the late successional groups become more important in decomposing the less-degradable or resistant fraction of plant residues. The bacterial succession probably is related to resource availability during residue decomposition. The fast-growing organisms are favored at the beginning, while the slow-growing bacteria are better adapted in the later stages, when substrate availability is limiting.
19465657	Burkholderia glumae produces toxoflavin, a phytotoxin with a broad host range, which is a key virulence factor in bacterial rice grain rot. Based on genetic analysis, we previously reported that ToxR, a LysR-type regulator, activates both the toxABCDE (toxoflavin biosynthesis genes) and toxFGHI (toxoflavin transporter genes) operons in the presence of toxoflavin as a coinducer. Quorum sensing regulates the expression of the transcriptional activator ToxJ that is required for tox gene expression. Here, we used gel mobility shift and DNase I protection analyses to demonstrate that both ToxR and ToxJ bind simultaneously to the regulatory regions of both tox operons. ToxR and ToxJ both bound to the toxA and toxF regulatory regions, and the sequences for the binding of ToxR to the regulatory regions of both tox operons possessed T-N(11)-A motifs. Following random mutagenesis of toxR, 10 ToxR mutants were isolated. We constructed a reporter strain, S6K34 (toxR'A'::Omega toxF::Tn3-gusA34) to evaluate which amino acid residues are important for ToxR activity. Several single amino acid substitutions identified residues that might be important for ToxR binding to DNA and toxoflavin binding. When various toxoflavin derivatives were tested to determine whether toxoflavin is a specific coinducer of ToxR in the S6K34 strain, ToxR, together with toxoflavin, conferred toxF expression, whereas 4,8-dihydrotoxoflavin did so only slightly. With these results, we have demonstrated biochemically that B. glumae cells control toxoflavin production tightly by the requirement of both ToxJ and toxoflavin as coinducers of ToxR.
19466605	We previously isolated the OsCBT gene, which encodes a calmodulin (CaM)-binding protein, from a rice expression library constructed from fungal elicitor-treated rice suspension cells. In order to understand the function of OsCBT in rice, we isolated and characterized a T-DNA insertion mutant allele named oscbt-1. The oscbt-1 mutant exhibits reduced levels of OsCBT transcripts and no significant morphological changes compared to wild-type plant although the growth of the mutant is stunted. However, oscbt-1 mutants showed significant resistance to two major rice pathogens. The growth of the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea, as well as the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae was significantly suppressed in oscbt-1 plants. Histochemical analysis indicated that the hypersensitive-response was induced in the oscbt-1 mutant in response to compatible strains of fungal pathogens. OsCBT expression was induced upon challenge with fungal elicitor. We also observed significant increase in the level of pathogenesis-related genes in the oscbt-1 mutant even under pathogen-free condition. Taken together, the results support an idea that OsCBT might act as a negative regulator on plant defense.
19467132	The noctuid moth Spodoptera frugiperda consists of two strains associated with different larval host plants (most notably corn and rice). These strains exhibit differential temporal patterns of female calling and copulation during scotophase, with the corn strain more active earlier in the night. We investigated strain-specific constraints in reproductive timing, mating interactions between the two strains, and the mode of inheritance of timing of female calling, male calling, copulation and oviposition. We observed an allochronic shift of all reproductive behaviours by approximately 3 h and a parallel shift of nonreproductive locomotor activity, suggesting involvement of the circadian clock. The corn strain was more variable in the timing of calling and copulation than the rice strain. Rice strain females were more restricted in the timing of copulation than rice strain males, while such differences between the sexes were not apparent in the corn strain. There were significant interactions between the strains affecting onset times of copulation and male calling. The four investigated reproductive traits differed in their modes of inheritance: timing of female and male calling exhibited strong maternal effects, timing of copulation was controlled by a combination of maternal effects and corn strain dominant autosomal factors, and timing of oviposition was inherited in a corn strain dominant fashion. We conclude that the allochronic separation of reproduction between fall armyworm strains is asymmetric, less pronounced than previously thought, and under complex genetic control.
19467587	The influence of the hydrothermal treatment conditions of rice straw (temperature--150-190 degrees C , time--0-20 min after reaching the operation temperature, and liquid/solid ratio--6-8), on the composition of liquid and solid fractions was studied. Polynomial models were found for to reproduce the experimental results with errors less than 6%. Operating to 190 degrees C, 15 min and 9 liquid/solid ratio was obtained high values of glucose (1.92 g/L), xylose (3.97 g/L), arabinose (0.99 g/L) and acetic acid (1.96 g/L), what allows to save capital when not operating with the maximum time and/or liquid/solid ratio; yield in the solid fraction is 88.1% and lignin content 24.43%. If what it is required to obtain good values of yield (96.46%) and lignin content, is necessary to operate to 150 degrees C, obtaining lower concentrations glucose (1.11%), xylose (2.78%), arabinose (0.56%) and acetic acid (0.39%). Ethanolamine pulping of solid fraction of hydrothermal treatment provides pulp with higher or similar properties to those obtained of pulping rice straw with ethanolamine or soda.
19467864	We have previously demonstrated that a sulfuric acid-free ethanol (EtOH) cooking treatment enhances the enzymatic digestibility of eucalyptus wood and bagasse flour. In the present study, a reconfigured process that achieves similar performance was developed by identifying possible cost-competitive pretreatments that provide high cellulose-to-glucose conversion during subsequent enzymatic hydrolysis. The series of reconfigurations reduced EtOH usage in the pretreatment by more than 80% in comparison with our previous research. Higher initial pressures and intensive size reduction of the starting material are not required. The reconfigured process was applied to rice straw and Douglas fir, in order to confirm the feasibility of feedstock diversity.
19468748	Leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinases (LRR-RLKs) comprise the largest subfamily of transmembrane receptor-like kinases in plants, and they regulate a wide variety of developmental and defense-related processes. In this study, RNA interference (RNAi) strategy was used to specifically knockdown 59 individual rice genes encoding putative LRR-RLKs, and a novel rice blast resistance-related gene (designated as OsBRR1) was identified by screening T(0) RNAi population using a weakly virulent isolate of Magnaporthe oryzae, Ken 54-04. Wild-type plants (Oryza sativa L. cv. 'Nipponbare') showed intermediate resistance to Ken 54-04, while OsBRR1 suppression plants were susceptible to Ken 54-04. Furthermore, OsBRR1-overexpressing plants exhibited enhanced resistance to some virulent isolates (97-27-2, 99-31-1 and zhong 10-8-14). OsBRR1 expression was low in leaves and undetectable in roots under normal growth conditions, while its transcript was significantly induced in leaves infected with the blast fungus (Ken 54-04) and was moderately affected by ABA, JA and SA treatment. Overexpression or RNAi suppression of OsBRR1 did not cause visible developmental changes in rice plants. These results indicate that OsBRR1 is involved in rice resistance responses to blast fungus and mediates resistance to rice blast.
19468840	Iron uptake and translocation in plants are important processes for both plant and human nutrition, whereas relatively little is known about the molecular mechanisms of iron transport within the plant body. Several reports have shown that yellow stripe 1 (YS1) and YS1-like (YSL) transporters mediate metal-phytosiderophore uptake and/or metal-nicotianamine translocation. Among the 18 YSL genes in rice (OsYSLs), OsYSL18 is predicted to encode a polypeptide of 679 amino acids containing 13 putative transmembrane domains. An OsYSL18-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion was localized to the plasma membrane when transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells. Electrophysiological measurements using Xenopus laevis oocytes showed that OsYSL18 transports iron(III)-deoxymugineic acid, but not iron(II)-nicotianamine, zinc(II)-deoxymugineic acid, or zinc(II)-nicotianamine. Reverse transcriptase PCR analysis revealed more OsYSL18 transcripts in flowers than in shoots or roots. OsYSL18 promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) analysis revealed that OsYSL18 was expressed in reproductive organs including the pollen tube. In vegetative organs, OsYSL18 was specifically expressed in lamina joints, the inner cortex of crown roots, and phloem parenchyma and companion cells at the basal part of every leaf sheath. These results suggest that OsYSL18 is an iron-phytosiderophore transporter involved in the translocation of iron in reproductive organs and phloem in joints.
19470089	Epigenetic phenomena have been associated with modifications of chromatin structure. These are achieved, in part, by histone post-translational modifications including acetylations and deacetylations, the later being catalyzed by histone deacetylaces (HDACs). Eukaryotic HDACs are grouped into three major families, RPD3/HDA1, SIR2 and the plant-specific HD2. HDAC genes have been analyzed from model plants such as Arabidopsis, rice and maize and have been shown to be involved in various cellular processes including seed development, vegetative and reproductive growth and responses to abiotic and biotic stress, but reports on HDACs from other crops are limited. In this work two full-length cDNAs (HvHDAC2-1 and HvHDAC2-2) encoding two members of the plant-specific HD2 family, respectively, were isolated and characterized from barley (Hordeum vulgare), an agronomically important cereal crop. HvHDAC2-1 and HvHDAC2-2 were mapped on barley chromosomes 1H and 3H, respectively, which could prove useful in developing markers for marker-assisted selection in breeding programs. Expression analysis of the barley HD2 genes demonstrated that they are expressed in all tissues and seed developmental stages examined. Significant differences were observed among tissues and seed stages, and between cultivars with varying seed size, suggesting an association of these genes with seed development. Furthermore, the HD2 genes from barley were found to respond to treatments with plant stress-related hormones such as jasmonic acid (JA), abscisic acid (ABA) and salicylic acid (SA) implying an association of these genes with plant resistance to biotic and abiotic stress. The expression pattern of HD2 genes suggests a possible role for these genes in the epigenetic regulation of seed development and stress response.
19470101	A common feature of the animal sialyltransferases (STs) is the presence of four conserved motifs, namely large (L), small (S), very small (VS) and motif III. Although sialic acid (SA) has not been detected in plants, three orthologues containing sequences similar to the ST motifs have been identified in the Arabidopsis thaliana L. database. In this study, we report that the At3g48820 gene (Gene ID: 824043) codes for a Golgi resident protein lacking the ability to transfer SA to asialofetuin or Galbeta1,3GalNAc and Galbeta1,4GlcNAc oligosaccharide acceptors. Restoration of deteriorated motifs S, VS and motif III by constructing chimeric proteins consisting of the 28-308 amino acid region of the A. thalianaAt3g48820 ST-like protein and the 264-393 amino acid region of the Oryza sativa L. AK107493 ST-like protein, or of the 28-240 amino acid region of the At3g48820 protein and the 204-350 amino acid region of the Homo sapiens L. alpha2,3-ST (NP_008858) was not able to recover sialyltransferase activity. Altering the appropriate amino acid regions of the A. thalianaAt3g48820 ST-like protein to those typical for the mammalian motif III (HHYWE) and VS motif (HDADFE) also did not have any effect. Our data, together with previous results, indicate that A. thaliana in particular, and plants in general, do not have transferases for SA. Substrates for the plant ST-like proteins might be compounds involved in secondary metabolism.
19470185	In the past, rice genome served as a good model for studies involving comparative genomics of grass species. More recently, however, Brachypodium distachyon genome has emerged as a better model system for genomes of temperate cereals including wheat. During the present study, Brachypodium EST contigs were utilized to resolve orthologous relationships among the genomes of Brachypodium, wheat and rice. Comparative sequence analysis of 3,818 Brachypodium EST (bEST) contigs and 3,792 physically mapped wheat EST (wEST) contigs revealed that as many as 449 bEST contigs were orthologous to 1,154 wEST loci that were bin-mapped on all the 21 wheat chromosomes. Similarly 743 bEST contigs were orthologous to specific rice genome sequences distributed on all the 12 rice chromosomes. As many as 183 bEST contigs were orthologous to both wheat and rice genome sequences, which harbored as many as 17 SSRs conserved across the three species. Primers developed for 12 of these 17 conserved SSRs were used for a wet-lab experiment, which resolved relatively high level of conservation among the genomes of Brachypodium, wheat and rice. The present study confirmed that Brachypodium is a better model than rice for analysis of the genomes of temperate cereals like wheat and barley. The whole genome sequence of Brachypodium, which should become available in the near future, will further facilitate greatly the studies involving comparative genomics of cereals.
19470249	Two clinical phenotypes for citrin deficiency (CD) have been reported. One is adult-onset citrullinemia type II (CTLN2) and another is neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis caused by citrin deficiency (NICCD). A child with CD and who had failure to thrive (FTT) and dyslipidemia as main clinical manifestations is reported here. Both the weight-and length-for-age at 18 months dropped below the 3rd percentile in the corresponding WHO anthropometry percentile charts, while blood biochemical analysis revealed dramatically increased triglyceride and total cholesterol, together with reduced HDL-cholesterol. Inquiries revealed his aversion to rice and fondness for fish since the age of one year, a peculiar habit which could not be corrected. Since the age of two years, the peculiar diet became more obvious, and slightly increased citrulline and threonine levels were detected on blood amino acid analysis. At the age of two years and five months he was suspected to have CD. Since then, he has been fed in accordance with his own food preferences, and FTT improved gradually, with weight-for-age, in particular, recovering beyond the 3rd percentile at three years of age, and dyslipidemia was also ameliorated gradually. SLC25A13 gene analysis revealed a homozygote of 851del4, and CD was thus confirmed. Diet survey at four years and seven months revealed a fondness for high-protein and low-carbohydrate foods, such as seafood, meat, eggs and milk. This child presented with FTT and dyslipidemia as main clinical manifestations and this was a novel CD phenotype different from NICCD and CTLN2.
19470578	MER3, a ZMM protein, is required for the formation of crossovers in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Arabidopsis. Here, MER3, the first identified ZMM gene in a monocot, is characterized by map-based cloning in rice (Oryza sativa). The null mutation of MER3 results in complete sterility without any vegetative defects. Cytological analyses show that chiasma frequency is reduced dramatically in mer3 mutants and the remaining chiasmata distribute randomly among different pollen mother cells, implying possible coexistence of two kinds of crossover in rice. Immunocytological analyses reveal that MER3 only exists as foci in prophase I meiocytes. In addition, MER3 does not colocalize with PAIR2 at the beginning of prophase I, but locates on one end of PAIR2 fragments at later stages, whereas MER3 foci merely locate on one end of REC8 fragments when signals start to be seen in early prophase I. The normal loading of PAIR2 and REC8 in mer3 implies that their loading is independent of MER3. On the contrary, the absence of MER3 signal in pair2 mutants indicates that PAIR2 is essential for the loading and further function of MER3.
19470589	Tillering in rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the most important agronomic traits that determine grain yields. Previous studies on rice tillering mutants have shown that the outgrowth of tiller buds in rice is regulated by a carotenoid-derived MAX/RMS/D (more axillary branching) pathway, which may be conserved in higher plants. Strigolactones, a group of terpenoid lactones, have been recently identified as products of the MAX/RMS/D pathway that inhibits axillary bud outgrowth. We report here the molecular genetic characterization of d27, a classic rice mutant exhibiting increased tillers and reduced plant height. D27 encodes a novel iron-containing protein that localizes in chloroplasts and is expressed mainly in vascular cells of shoots and roots. The phenotype of d27 is correlated with enhanced polar auxin transport. The phenotypes of the d27 d10 double mutant are similar to those of d10, a mutant defective in the ortholog of MAX4/RMS1 in rice. In addition, 2'-epi-5-deoxystrigol, an identified strigolactone in root exudates of rice seedlings, was undetectable in d27, and the phenotypes of d27 could be rescued by supplementation with GR24, a synthetic strigolactone analog. Our results demonstrate that D27 is involved in the MAX/RMS/D pathway, in which D27 acts as a new member participating in the biosynthesis of strigolactones.
19470656	Gamma-aminobutyric acid transaminase (GABA-T) catalyses the breakdown of GABA to succinic semialdehyde. In this report, three GABA-T isoforms were identified in the tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) plant. The deduced amino acid sequences of the three isoforms are highly similar over most of their coding regions with the exception of their N-terminal regions. Transient expression of the individual full-length GABA-T isoforms fused to the green fluorescent protein in tobacco suspension-cultured cells revealed their distinct subcellular localizations to the mitochondrion, plastid or cytosol, and that the specific targeting of the mitochondrion- and plastid-localized isoforms is mediated by their predicted N-terminal presequences. Removal of the N-terminal targeting presequences from the mitochondrion and plastid GABA-T isoforms yielded good recovery of the soluble recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli when they were co-expressed with the GroES/EL molecular chaperone complex. Activity assays indicated that all three recombinant isoforms possess both pyruvate- and glyoxylate-dependent GABA-T activities, although the mitochondrial enzyme has a specific activity that is significantly higher than that of its plastid and cytosolic counterparts. Finally, differential expression patterns of the three GABA-T isoforms in reproductive tissues, but not vegetative tissues, suggest unique roles for each enzyme in developmental processes. Overall, these findings, together with recent information about rice and pepper GABA-Ts, indicate that the subcellular distribution of GABA-T in the plant kingdom is highly variable.
19472274	The present paper describes the development of a new clean-up strategy for the analysis of aflatoxins (AFs) in food. The sample preparation method is based on immuno-ultrafiltration (IUF) which, in contrast to immunoaffinity chromatography, makes use of antibodies in free form. After selecting an appropriate ultrafiltration (UF) device and optimizing different operation conditions the IUF method was applied to the clean-up of maize and rice. Quantification of AFs was carried out by HPLC and fluorescence detection, after postcolumn derivatization in a Kobracell. The IUF method was shown to be as selective as sample clean-up using commercial immunoaffinity columns. Recovery rates and RSD for the AFs G(2), G(1), B(2) and B(1) in spiked rice were found to be 76 +/- 3, 76 +/- 2, 83 +/- 5 and 99 +/- 14%, respectively. The analysis of a FAPAS (food analysis performance assessment scheme) maize material resulted in AFs concentrations which were in the range assigned by the producer of the reference material.
19472606	Biofortification is an agricultural strategy that aims to increase the content of select micronutrients, including zinc, in staple food crops such as rice, wheat, maize, pearl millet, and others. When consumed among zinc-deficient populations, zinc-biofortified staple foods should improve the adequacy of zinc intakes and hence reduce the risk of dietary zinc deficiency. Several conditioning factors will contribute to the potential for this strategy to meet its goal, including the additional amount of zinc that can be bred into the staple crop food, the amount of zinc that remains in the staple crop food following usual processing methods, and the bioavailability of zinc from the staple crop food in the context of the usual diet. Reduction of the phytate content of cereals with the use of agricultural techniques is a potential complementary strategy for improving the bioavailability of zinc. The feasibility of biofortification to result in a meaningful increase in the adequacy of population zinc intakes and to reduce the consequences of zinc deficiencies still needs to be determined through efficacy trials. At the program level, the ability to widely disseminate biofortified crop varieties and the willingness of farmers to adopt them will also affect the magnitude of the impact of this strategy.
19472976	Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DGE) in conjunction with mass spectrometry was utilized to unravel the changes in embryo proteins of geminating rice seeds. For this purpose, the embryos were dissected at 1 and 2 days after imbibition and germination of mature dry seeds. Proteins were extracted and their expression patterns were analyzed by large-format 2-DGE. A total of 642 silver nitrate stained protein spots were detected on 2-D gels, subjected to image analysis using the ImageMaster 6.0 2D Platinum software, resulting in the identification of 109 differentially expressed protein spots compared with imbibed seeds. MALDI-TOF-MS analysis resulted in the identification of 60 proteins, including 6 redundant and 54 nonredundant proteins. The identified proteins were classified according to their functional groups: metabolism (15 spots), oxygen-detoxifying (11 spots), protein processing/degradation (8 spots), stress/defense (5 spots), and energy (3 spots). Northern blot analysis demonstrated a good correlation between the mRNA expression profile and 2-DGE results for 27 proteins. Furthermore, Western blot analysis was used to confirm the high expression patterns of ascorbate peroxidase b (OsAPxb, spot 12/13) and l-ascorbate peroxidase 1 (OsAPx1, spot 17/27) in the embryo as compared with the endosperm of dry seeds. Present results suggest that seed germination is related with multiple regulations of functional proteins. For example, proteins related to metabolism (i.e., glycolysis and TCA cycle) are essential for the energy supply. On the other hand, oxygen-detoxifying proteins and stress/defense related proteins may take part in an important role in adaptation to environmental conditions during seed germination.
19473249	Tetrapyrrole pigments are important components of many biological processes, and many of them are produced primarily by microorganisms. We constructed a soil metagenomic library using rice paddy soil consisting of 107 000 fosmid clones with an average DNA insert size of 35 kb. We isolated a clone carrying genes in the porphyrin biosynthetic pathway based on function-driven screening of the library. Through subcloning and mutagenesis analysis, we showed that two genes from soil metagenome, gtrA and hemC, were responsible for pigmentation in Escherichia coli. HPLC and LC-MS analysis of the purified pigments from E. coli carrying pSY143 identified coproporphyrin III without metal as a major compound as well as some other minor porphyrin intermediates. As gtrA and hemC encode glutamyl-tRNA reductase and porphobilinogen deaminase, respectively, which are enzymes involved in the C5 biosynthetic pathway for porphyrin intermediates, our results suggest that hemL, hemB, hemD, and hemE should be provided by the E. coli chromosome to generate a hybrid biosynthetic pathway for production of porphyrin intermediates using E. coli and metagenomic genes.
19474214	Mitochondrial protein import is a complex multistep process from synthesis of proteins in the cytosol, recognition by receptors on the organelle surface, to translocation across one or both mitochondrial membranes and assembly after removal of the targeting signal, referred to as a presequence. In plants, import has to further discriminate between mitochondria and chloroplasts. In this study, we determined the precise cleavage sites in the presequences for Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) mitochondrial proteins using mass spectrometry by comparing the precursor sequences with experimental evidence of the amino-terminal peptide from mature proteins. We validated this method by assessments of false-positive rates and comparisons with previous available data using Edman degradation. In total, the cleavable presequences of 62 proteins from Arabidopsis and 52 proteins from rice mitochondria were determined. None of these proteins contained amino-terminal acetylation, in contrast to recent findings for chloroplast stromal proteins. Furthermore, the classical matrix glutamate dehydrogenase was detected with intact and amino-terminal acetylated sequences, indicating that it is imported into mitochondria without a cleavable targeting signal. Arabidopsis and rice mitochondrial presequences had similar isoelectric points, hydrophobicity, and the predicted ability to form an amphiphilic alpha-helix at the amino-terminal region of the presequence, but variations in length, amino acid composition, and cleavage motifs for mitochondrial processing peptidase were observed. A combination of lower hydrophobicity and start point of the amino-terminal alpha-helix in mitochondrial presequences in both Arabidopsis and rice distinguished them (98%) from Arabidopsis chloroplast stroma transit peptides. Both Arabidopsis and rice mitochondrial cleavage sites could be grouped into three classes, with conserved -3R (class II) and -2R (class I) or without any conserved (class III) arginines. Class II was dominant in both Arabidopsis and rice (55%-58%), but in rice sequences there was much less frequently a phenylalanine (F) in the -1 position of the cleavage site than in Arabidopsis sequences. Our data also suggest a novel cleavage motif of (F/Y) downward arrow(S/A) in plant class III sequences.
19474706	To review current knowledge and recent advances in food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES). Rice is the most common solid food causing FPIES. Rice FPIES is associated with more severe reactions than other foods. Infants presenting acutely may be hypothermic (<36 degrees C) and have thrombocytosis. Finding of hypoalbuminemia and weight gain less than 10 g/day helps to differentiate chronic infantile cow's milk FPIES from infectious causes. Gastric juice leukocytes more than 10 cells per high-power field are found in infants with positive oral food challenge to cow's milk. FPIES is a non-IgE-mediated gastrointestinal food hypersensitivity disorder. Food protein-activated intestinal lymphocytes elaborate inflammatory cytokines that result in increased intestinal permeability, malabsorption, dysmotility, emesis, diarrhea, pain, and failure to thrive. Decreased intestinal transforming growth factor beta and increased TNFalpha may be important in FPIES. Cow's milk and soy are the most common causes of FPIES, but cereal grains (rice, oat, and barley), fish, poultry, and vegetables may also cause FPIES. The majority of FPIES resolve by age of 3 years.
19476655	Inter-specific hybridization occurs frequently in plants, which may induce genetic and epigenetic instabilities in the resultant hybrids, allopolyploids and introgressants. It remains unclear however whether pollination by alien pollens of an incompatible species may impose a "biological stress" even in the absence of genome-merger or genetic introgression, whereby genetic and/or epigenetic instability of the maternal recipient genome might be provoked. We report here the identification of a rice mutator-phenotype from a set of rice plants derived from a crossing experiment involving two remote and apparently incompatible species, Oryza sativa L. and Oenothera biennis L. The mutator-phenotype (named Tong211-LP) showed distinct alteration in several traits, with the most striking being substantially enlarged panicles. Expectably, gel-blotting by total genomic DNA of the pollen-donor showed no evidence for introgression. Characterization of Tong211-LP (S0) and its selfed progenies (S1) ruled out contamination (via seed or pollen) or polyploidy as a cause for its dramatic phenotypic changes, but revealed transgenerational mobilization of several previously characterized transposable elements (TEs), including a MITE (mPing), and three LTR retrotransposons (Osr7, Osr23 and Tos17). AFLP and MSAP fingerprinting revealed extensive, transgenerational alterations in cytosine methylation and to a less extent also genetic variation in Tong211-LP and its immediate progenies. mPing mobility was found to correlate with cytosine methylation alteration detected by MSAP but not with genetic variation detected by AFLP. Assay by q-RT-PCR of the steady-state transcript abundance of a set of genes encoding for the various putative DNA methyltransferases, 5-methylcytosine DNA glycosylases, and small interference RNA (siRNA) pathway-related proteins showed that, relative to the rice parental line, heritable perturbation in expression of 12 out of the 13 genes occurred in the mutator-phenotype and its sefled progenies. Transgenerational epigenetic instability in the form of altered cytosine methylation and its associated TE activity occurred in a rice mutator-phenotype produced by pollinating the rice stigma with pollens of O. biennis. Heritably perturbed homeostatic expression-state of genes involved in maintenance of chromatin structure is likely an underlying cause for the alien pollination-induced transgenerational epigenetic/genetic instability, and which occurred apparently without entailing genome merger or genetic introgression.
19479952	Yellow stem borer (Tryporyza incertulas Walker), striped stem borer (Chilo suppressalis Walker) and leaf folder (Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenec) are three lepidopteran pests that cause severe damage to rice in many areas of the world. In this study, novel insect-resistant transgenic rice was developed in which Bt protein expression was nearly absent in the endosperm. The resistant gene, cry1C*, driven by the rice rbcS promoter (small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase), was introduced into Zhonghua 11 (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. A total of 83 independent transformants were obtained, 19 of which were characterised as single-copy foreign gene insertion. After preliminary screening of the T(1) families of these 19 transformants in the field, six highly insect-resistant homozygous lines were selected. These six homozygous transgenic lines were field tested for resistance to leaf folders and stem borers, and for their agronomic performance. The Cry1C* protein levels in leaves and endosperm were measured by ELISA. Subsequently, the elite transgenic line RJ5 was selected; this line not only possessed high resistance to leaf folders and stem borers, normal agronomic performance, but also Cry1C* expression was only 2.6 ng g(-1) in the endosperm. These results indicated that RJ5 has the potential for widespread utility in rice production.
19480680	A large number of genetic variations have been identified in rice. Such variations must in many cases control phenotypic differences in abiotic stress tolerance and other traits. A single feature polymorphism (SFP) is an oligonucleotide array-based polymorphism which can be used for identification of SNPs or insertion/deletions (INDELs) for high throughput genotyping and high density mapping. Here we applied SFP markers to a lingering question about the source of salt tolerance in a particular rice recombinant inbred line (RIL) derived from a salt tolerant and salt sensitive parent. Expression data obtained by hybridizing RNA to an oligonucleotide array were analyzed using a statistical method called robustified projection pursuit (RPP). By applying the RPP method, a total of 1208 SFP probes were detected between two presumed parental genotypes (Pokkali and IR29) of a RIL population segregating for salt tolerance. We focused on the Saltol region, a major salt tolerance QTL. Analysis of FL478, a salt tolerant RIL, revealed a small (< 1 Mb) region carrying alleles from the presumed salt tolerant parent, flanked by alleles matching the salt sensitive parent IR29. Sequencing of putative SFP-containing amplicons from this region and other positions in the genome yielded a validation rate more than 95%. Recombinant inbred line FL478 contains a small (< 1 Mb) segment from the salt tolerant parent in the Saltol region. The Affymetrix rice genome array provides a satisfactory platform for high resolution mapping in rice using RNA hybridization and the RPP method of SFP analysis.
19481133	Aflatoxins (AFs) are highly toxic and carcinogenic secondary fungal metabolites and have been detected in various food commodities including cereals. Rice were imported to Iran during March 2006-March 2007 analyzed for aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), aflatoxin B2 (AFB2), aflatoxin G1 (AFG1) and aflatoxin G2 (AFG2) using immunoaffinity column and quantitated by HPLC. In this regard, 71 rice samples were collected. After dividing samples to sub-samples, AF analyses were done. Among 71 samples analyzed, AFB1 was detected in 59 samples (83% of the total). The mean of AFB1 was 1.89 ng/g for all samples (with the not detected samples taken as zero). Total AF (AFT) was detected in 59 samples (83% of the total). The mean of AFT was 2.09 ng/g for all samples. AFB1 level in two samples (2.8%) was above the maximum tolerated level (MTL) of AFB1 in Iran (5 ng/g). Regarding AFT, the mean contamination level (2.09 ng/g) was lower than MTL of AFT in rice in Iran as well as lower than maximum level of EU for AFT (4 ng/g), and only nine samples had levels above the MTL of EU in AFT.
19481835	High salt and drought are the main factors affecting agricultural production. Thus, cloning stress-tolerance-related genes and identifying their functions are essential to enhancing crop tolerance to stresses. In this study, a salt-induced unknown wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) gene was identified and cloned according to microarray analysis of salt-tolerant wheat mutant RH8706-49 under salt stress. The gene was named Triticum aestivum salt tolerance-related gene (TaSTRG) and submitted to Genbank (Accession number: EF599631). TaSTRG expression in wheat is induced by multiple stresses including salt, polyethylene glycol (PEG), abscisic acid (ABA), and cold. Transgenic rice plants overexpressing TaSTRG gene showed higher salt and drought tolerance than the control. Under salt stress, the transgenic rice had a lower intracellular Na(+)/K(+) ratio than the control. Under salt and PEG treatments, these TaSTRG overexpressing rice plants had higher survival rate, fresh weight and chlorophyll content, accumulated higher proline and soluble sugar contents, and had significantly higher expression levels of putative proline synthetase and transporter genes than the control plants. These results indicate that the wheat TaSTRG gene could enhance plant tolerance to multiple types of stresses.
19481894	Methanotrophs are an important regulator for reducing methane (CH(4)) emissions from rice field soils. The type I group of the proteobacterial methanotrophs are generally favored at low CH(4) concentration and high O(2) availability, while the type II group lives better under high CH(4) and limiting O(2) conditions. Such physiological differences are possibly reflected in their ecological preferences. In the present study, methanotrophic compositions were compared between rice-planted soil and non-planted soil and between the rhizosphere and rice roots by using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of particulate methane monooxygenase (pmoA) genes. In addition, the effects of rice variety and nitrogen fertilizer were evaluated. The results showed that the terminal restriction fragments (T-RFs), which were characteristic for type I methanotrophs, substantially increased in the rhizosphere and on the roots compared with non-planted soils. Furthermore, the relative abundances of the type I methanotroph T-RFs were greater on roots than in the rhizosphere. Of type I methanotrophs, the 79bp T-RF, which was characteristic for an unknown group or Methylococcus/Methylocaldum, markedly increased in field samples, while the 437bp, which possibly represented Methylomonas, dominated in microcosm samples. These results suggested that type I methanotrophs were enriched or selected for by rice roots compared to type II methanotrophs. However, the members of type I methanotrophs are dynamic and sensitive to environmental change. Rice planting appeared to increase the copy number of pmoA genes relative to the non-planted soils. However, neither the rice variety nor the N fertilizer significantly influenced the dynamics of the methanotrophic community.
19482029	Female adults of the rice leaf bug Trigonotylus caelestialium (Kirkaldy) (Heteroptera: Miridae) produce non-diapause eggs under long-day conditions, whereas they produce diapause eggs under short-day conditions. These egg-production modes change following a photoperiodic change from long-day to short-day conditions or vice versa, with individual variations in responsiveness shown in the time from the photoperiodic change to the mode change. Strains of this insect with higher or lower responsiveness to photoperiodic change were established after several generations of selection, indicating that the individual variation has a genetic basis. The selected strains that were more responsive and less responsive to one photoperiodic change were found to be less responsive and more responsive to the opposite photoperiodic change, respectively, indicating a significant negative correlation between responsiveness to reciprocal photoperiodic changes. The selected strains also had a significantly different incidence of diapause-egg producers in stationary photoperiods compared to a non-selected strain, showing that selections for responsiveness to photoperiodic change were essentially the same as selections for a higher or lower incidence of diapause-egg producers. These results indicate that responsiveness to photoperiodic change is one aspect of the tendency to produce diapause or non-diapause eggs.
19482396	Paddy rice may contribute considerably to the human intake of As. The knowledge of soil characteristics affecting the As content of the rice plant enables the development of agricultural measures for controlling As uptake. During field surveys in 2004 and 2006, plant samples from 68 fields (Italy, Po-area) revealed markedly differing As concentration in polished rice. The soil factors total As(aqua regia), pH, grain size fractions, total C, plant available P(CAL), poorly crystalline Fe(oxal.) and plant available Si(Na-acetate) content that potentially affect As content of rice were determined. A multiple linear regression analysis showed a significant positive influence of the total As(aqua regia) and plant available P(CAL) content and a negative influence of the poorly crystalline Fe(oxal.) content of the soil on the As content in polished rice and rice straw. Si concentration in rice straw varied widely and was negatively related to As content in straw and polished rice.
1948250	A screening program searching for indigenous microbial control agents of mosquitos in Malaysia is initiated since 1987 and to date at least 20 isolates of mosquitocidal Bacillus thuringiensis serotypes have been obtained. Preliminary field evaluation of several isolates indicated that they are highly effective in the control of medically important mosquito species. For operational purposes, there is an urgent need to produce this agent utilizing cheap and locally available wastes through fermentation biotechnology. Fermentation studies in shake-flasks containing standard nutrient broth and soya bean waste, respectively, indicate that it takes about 37 hours for a Malaysian isolate of B. thuringiensis serotype H-14 to mature. In the grated coconut waste, fishmeal and rice bran, the bacteria took 28 hours, 26 hours and 126 hours respectively to mature. The endotoxin was harvested from the standard nutrient broth at 55 hours and at 50 hours from soybean, grated coconut waste and fishmeal. The endotoxin could only be harvested 150 hours after inoculation from rice bran medium. However, no bacterial growth was detected in palm oil effluent. In terms of endotoxin and biomass production, fishmeal appears to be a suitable medium. Variations in the pH of the fermenting media were also noted.
19482918	Plant growth under low K(+) availability or salt stress requires tight control of K(+) and Na(+) uptake, long-distance transport, and accumulation. The family of membrane transporters named HKT (for High-Affinity K(+) Transporters), permeable either to K(+) and Na(+) or to Na(+) only, is thought to play major roles in these functions. Whereas Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) possesses a single HKT transporter, involved in Na(+) transport in vascular tissues, a larger number of HKT transporters are present in rice (Oryza sativa) as well as in other monocots. Here, we report on the expression patterns and functional properties of three rice HKT transporters, OsHKT1;1, OsHKT1;3, and OsHKT2;1. In situ hybridization experiments revealed overlapping but distinctive and complex expression patterns, wider than expected for such a transporter type, including vascular tissues and root periphery but also new locations, such as osmocontractile leaf bulliform cells (involved in leaf folding). Functional analyses in Xenopus laevis oocytes revealed striking diversity. OsHKT1;1 and OsHKT1;3, shown to be permeable to Na(+) only, are strongly different in terms of affinity for this cation and direction of transport (inward only or reversible). OsHKT2;1 displays diverse permeation modes, Na(+)-K(+) symport, Na(+) uniport, or inhibited states, depending on external Na(+) and K(+) concentrations within the physiological concentration range. The whole set of data indicates that HKT transporters fulfill distinctive roles at the whole plant level in rice, each system playing diverse roles in different cell types. Such a large diversity within the HKT transporter family might be central to the regulation of K(+) and Na(+) accumulation in monocots.
19484189	Self-incompatibility (SI) in Lolium perenne is controlled gametophytically by the S-Z two-locus system. S and Z loci mapped to L. perenne linkage groups 1 and 2, respectively, with their corresponding putative-syntenic regions on rice chromosome 5 (R5) and R4. None of the gene products of S and Z have yet been identified. SI cDNA libraries were developed to enrich for SI expressed genes in L. perenne. Transcripts were identified from the SI libraries that were orthologous to sequences on rice R4 and R5. These represent potential SI candidate genes. Altogether ten expressed SI candidate genes were identified. A rapid increase in gene expression within two minutes after pollen-stigma contact was revealed, reaching a maximum between 2 and 10 min. The potential involvement of these genes in the SI reactions is discussed.
19484258	To increase insect resistance in transgenic rice plants, a synthetic truncated cry1Ac gene was linked to the rice rbcS promoter and its transit peptide sequence (tp) for chloroplast-targeted expression. Several transgenic lines were generated by the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method and the expression levels of the transgene were compared with untargeted expression. Use of the rbcS-tp sequence increased the cry1Ac transcript and protein levels by 25- and 100-fold, respectively, with the accumulated protein in chloroplasts comprising up to 2% of the total soluble proteins. The high level of cry1Ac expression resulted in high levels of plant resistance to three common rice pests, rice leaf folder, rice green caterpillar, and rice skipper, as evidenced by insect feeding assays. Transgenic plants were also evaluated for resistance to natural infestations by rice leaf folder under field conditions. Throughout the entire period of plant growth, the transgenic plants showed no symptoms of damage, whereas nontransgenic control plants were severely damaged by rice leaf folders. Our results demonstrate that the targeting of cry1Ac protein to the chloroplast using the rbcS:tp system confers a high level of plant protection to insects, thus providing an alternative strategy for crop insect management.
19484264	Studies on microsatellite distribution and divergence in related genomes contribute towards understanding of genome evolution in eukaryotes. Despite the availability of whole genome sequences of four rice genomes, occurrence and significance of microsatellites in the rice genome has remained a relatively unexplored area of research. We have aligned genomes of two rice subspecies i.e. indica and japonica to understand the trends of microsatellite conservation and divergence in the rice genome. Nearly 62% of the indica microsatellites were also found in the japonica genome. Occurrence of microsatellites showed a negative association with that of retrotransposons. Microsatellites repeat unit length and sequence showed direct influence on the microsatellite locus length. Further, microsatellite allele length was also influenced by the sequence characteristics of the neighbouring regions. CCG repeats were most conserved microsatellite sequences across the different syntenic regions in the two rice genomes and often showed association with CpG islands. Our study suggested that microsatellite distribution is not only governed by a balance between replication slippage and point mutations as proposed earlier, but also by the microsatellite motif sequence and characteristics of microsatellite neighbouring regions in the genome. Thus, this study is likely to prove an important reference for understanding the process of microsatellite evolution and dynamics in the two rice subspecies.
19484303	Colonization ability of the two endophytic bacteria, isolated from surface sterilized roots of upland cultivated rice viz., Rhizobium sp. and Burkholderia sp., was compared after genetically tagging them with a constitutively expressing green fluorescent protein gene (gfp/gusA). Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) of gnotobiotically grown seedlings of Narendradhan 97, inoculated with gfp/gusA-tagged endophytes, revealed that both Rhizobium sp. and Burkholderia sp. colonized the intercellular spaces in the root cortex when inoculated separately. Colonization by gfp/gusA-tagged Rhizobium sp. was severely inhibited when co-inoculated with an equal number (10(6) cfu ml(-1)) of wild type Burkholderia sp. Burkholderia sp. was a more aggressive endophytic colonizer of rice than Rhizobium sp. The potential of using gfp/gusA reporter and CLSM as tools in evaluating competitive ability of colonization among endophytes is demonstrated in this study.
19486160	Uncultured archaeal anaerobic methanotrophs (ANMEs) are known to operate the anaerobic oxidation of methane process, an important sink for the greenhouse gas methane in natural environments. In this study, we designed 16S rRNA gene-specific primers for each of the phylogenetic groups of ANMEs (ANME-1, Guaymas Basin hydrothermal sediment clones group within the ANME-1, ANME-2a, ANME-2b, ANME-2c and ANME-3) based on previously reported sequences. The newly designed primers were used for the detection of the various groups of ANMEs in the sulphate-limited anaerobic environmental samples, i.e. methanogenic sludges, rice field soils, lotus field sediments and natural gas fields. The ANME 16S rRNA gene sequences were detected only in a natural gas field sample among the environments examined in this study and were of the ANME-1 and -2c groups. In addition, the quantitative real-time PCR analysis using the designed primers showed that abundances of ANME-1 and -2c were estimated to be <0.02% of the total prokaryotic 16S rRNA gene community. The newly designed ANME group-specific primers in this study may be useful to survey the distribution and quantitative determination of ANMEs.
19486410	To study the phenotypic and genetic diversity of culturable bacteria associated with rice seed and to asses the antagonistic and pathogenic potential of the isolated bacteria. Seed of rice cultivar PSBRc14 was collected from farmers' fields of irrigated lowland in southern Luzon, Philippines. Isolations of distinct colonies yielded 498 isolates. Classification of the isolates according to similarities in cellular characteristics, whole-cell fatty acid composition, and colony appearance differentiated 101 morphotype groups. Predominant bacteria were Coryneform spp., Pantoea spp. and Pseudomonas spp. Other bacteria regularly present were Actinomycetes spp., Bacillus pumilus, B. subtilis, Burkholderia glumae, Enterobacter cloacae, Paenibacillus polymyxa, Staphylococcus spp. and Xanthomonas spp. The genetic diversity among isolates was assessed by BOX-PCR fingerprinting of genomic DNA and represented 284 fingerprint types (FPTs). Most FPTs (78%) were not shared among samples, while eight FPTs occurred frequently in the samples. Seven of these FPTs also occurred frequently in a previous collection made from rainfed lowlands of Iloilo island, Philippines. Sixteen per cent of the isolates inhibited in vitro the mycelial growth of the rice pathogens Rhizoctonia solani and Pyricularia grisea, whereas 4% were pathogens identified as Burkholderia glumae, Burkholderia gladioli and Acidovorax avenae ssp. avenae. This study reveals a broad morphological and genetic diversity of bacteria present on seed of a single rice cultivar. This line of work contributes to a better understanding of the microbial diversity present on rice seed and stresses its importance as a carrier of antagonists and pathogens.
19487017	The dietary intake of silicon by using the duplicate portion sampling technique of 24 hour-meals during 7 consecutive days is estimated.Since plant-based foods are major sources of silicon the elemental content is determined in various vegetarian foodstuffs commercially available in Belgium.Mean silicon intake from the 24-hour duplicate meals consumed daily by nearly 2000 persons was 18.6 +/- 8.5 mg/day. The major food sources were unrefined grains of high fibre content, cereal products and root vegetables. For vegetarian foods rice and barley revealed high silicon levels. Very high serum concentrations in newborns and concomittant low levels in the mothers indicated a homeostatic mechanism in humans. Besides the dietary intake, serum silicon levels of various population groups support the concept of essentiality of the element. An in vitro dialysability of the element in a simulated digestion procedure is used as a surrogate of silicon uptake.Silicon was readily available from foods but this correlated inversely with the elemental content.Serum silicon levels, as a function of age, gave indication of an important role of this element. In vitro availability study proved an inverse relation with the elemental content. A preliminary in vivo experiment confirmed that bioavailability is not only determined by concentration, but especially by the type of food and species under which silicon is present.
19489614	One of the pathways by which cadmium enters human beings is through the consumption of agricultural products. The monitoring of cadmium has a significant role in the management of cadmium intake. Cadmium purification and quantification using immunochromatography were conducted in this study as an alternative means of cadmium analysis. The samples used in this study were rice, tomato, lettuce, garden pea, Arabidopsis thaliana (a widely used model organism for studying plants), soil, and fertilizer. The cadmium immunochromatography has been produced from the monoclonal antibody Nx2C3, which recognize the chelate form of cadmium, Cd.EDTA. The immunochromatography can be used for quantification of cadmium in a range from 0.01 to 0.1 mg/L at 20% mean coefficient of variance. A chelate column employing quaternary ammonium salts was used for the purification of cadmium from HCl extracts of samples. Recoveries of cadmium were near 100%, and the lowest recovery was 76.6% from rice leaves. The estimated cadmium concentrations from the immunochromatography procedure were evaluated by comparison with the results of instrumental analysis (ICP-AES or ICP-MS). By comparison of HCl extracts analyzed by ICP-MS and column eluates analyzed by immunochromatography of the samples, the estimated cadmium concentrations were closely similar, and their recoveries were from 98 to 116%.
19489628	The aim of this study is to investigate the antihypertensive effects of red mold rice (RMR) and red mold dioscorea (RMD) by low-dose oral administration to spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). A single oral dose of 1-fold RMD (150 mg/kg) significantly (p < 0.05) decreased systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) after 8 h of administration, but RMR showed no significant effect. During the chronic oral administration of 1-fold RMR (150 mg/kg), 0.5-fold RMD, 1-fold RMD, and 5-fold RMD to SHRs for 8 weeks, the increase of blood pressure was slowed significantly. The results indicated that only a 0.5-fold dose of RMD was able to significantly decrease both SBP and DBP. A 1-fold RMD showed a greater antihypertensive effect than 1-fold RMR, and both RMR and RMD can improve the vascular elastin structure remodeling. In comparison to RMR, RMD contained a higher amount of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and anti-inflammatory yellow pigments (monascin and ankaflavin). Moreover, RMD also exhibited higher angiotensin-I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory activity than RMR. These results suggest that RMD has greater antihypertensive bioavailability.
19490115	Auxin influences growth and development in plants by altering gene expression. Many auxin-responsive genes have been characterized in Arabidopsis in detail, but not in crop plants. Earlier, we reported the identification and characterization of the members of the GH3, Aux/IAA and SAUR gene families in rice. In this study, whole genome microarray analysis of auxin-responsive genes in rice was performed, with the aim of gaining some insight into the mechanism of auxin action. A comparison of expression profiles of untreated and auxin-treated rice seedlings identified 315 probe sets representing 298 (225 upregulated and 73 downregulated) unique genes as auxin-responsive. Functional categorization revealed that genes involved in various biological processes, including metabolism, transcription, signal transduction, and transport, are regulated by auxin. The expression profiles of auxin-responsive genes identified in this study and those of the members of the GH3, Aux/IAA, SAUR and ARF gene families were analyzed during various stages of vegetative and reproductive (panicle and seed) development by employing microarray analysis. Many of these genes are, indeed, expressed in a tissue-specific or developmental stage-specific manner, and the expression profiles of some of the representative genes were confirmed by real-time PCR. The differential expression of auxin-responsive genes during various stages of panicle and seed development implies their involvement in diverse developmental processes. Moreover, several auxin-responsive genes were differentially expressed under various abiotic stress conditions, indicating crosstalk between auxin and abiotic stress signaling.
19490167	A collection of 515 rice landraces originating from Vietnam and China were screened for the reaction to brown planthopper (BPH) infestation. Most of the resistant landraces were indica types from Vietnam and the Guangxi province in China. An F(2) mapping population was created from the cross between a BPH resistant Vietnamese landrace Yagyaw and the susceptible cultivar Cpslo17. Four quantitative trait loci (QTL) contributing to BPH resistance were mapped on chromosomes 2, 4, 7 and 9, respectively. The individual QTL accounted 5.64% to 12.77% of the phenotypic variance, and three resistant alleles were harbored in the resistant landrace Yagyaw. Two QTL located on chromosomes 2 and 4 were identified with significant additive effects and are useful in breeding new rice inbred lines. One resistant allele was harbored by the susceptible parent Cpslo17. This gene is important in selecting rice inbred lines with stronger resistances to BPH.
19490337	The effects of acidic electrolyzed water (AcEW), alkaline electrolyzed water (AlEW), 100 ppm sodium hypochlorite (NaClO), and 1% citric acid (CA) alone, and combinations of AcEW with 1% CA (AcEW + CA) and AlEW with 1% CA (AlEW + CA) against Bacillus cereus vegetative cells and spores was evaluated as a function of temperature (25, 30, 40, 50, or 60 degrees C) and dipping time (3 or 6 h). A 3-strain cocktail of Bacillus cereus cells or spores of approximately 10(7) CFU/g was inoculated in various cereal grains (brown rice, Job's tear rice, glutinous rice, and barley rice). B. cereus vegetative cells and spores were more rapidly inactivated at 40 degrees C than at 25 degrees C. Regardless of the dipping time, all treatments reduced the numbers of B. cereus vegetative cells and spore by more than 1 log CFU/g, except the deionized water (DIW), which showed approximately 0.7 log reduction. The reductions of B. cereus cells increased with increasing dipping temperature (25 to 60 degrees C). B. cereus vegetative cells were much more sensitive to the combined treatments than spores. The effectiveness of the combined electrolyzed water (EW) and 1% CA was considerable in inhibiting B. cereus on cereal grains. The application of combined EW and CA for controlling B. cereus cells and spores on cereal grains has not been previously reported. Therefore, the synergistic effect of EW and CA may provide a valuable insight on reducing foodborne pathogens on fruits, vegetables, and cereal grains.
19490341	Interaction of saltiness and acidity at the threshold level was studied employing 35 to 40 young female panelists. As a 1st step, the detection and recognition thresholds of salt, rice vinegar, and rice black vinegar have been measured for each panelist. To investigate the above interaction, the thresholds have been again measured for each panelist of salt, but this time, vinegar at half the concentration of each panelist's detection threshold was added to the salt solution. Similar measurement has been performed for vinegars with salt at half the concentration of each panelist's detection threshold. The data analysis has been done in 2 ways, namely, (1) by using Student's t-test to detect the significant difference in average between the data with and without the added ingredient and (2) detecting significant deviations from zero in the individual shifts in 2 sensory tests among panelists who participated in the 2 measurements. In doing that, a conversion of the scale was necessary to correct the systematic skewness existing in the original data. As a result, both the detection and recognition thresholds of salt were decreased with the existence of the added vinegar ingredient (P < 0.001). This tendency was more pronounced with rice black vinegar than with rice vinegar. On the contrary, no significant changes in the threshold of both detection and recognition were observed when salt at the half concentration of the detection threshold was added to rice vinegar. The interaction therefore was found to be asymmetric.
19490479	Rice (Oryza sativa L.), a non-accumulator of glycinebetaine (GB), is highly susceptible to abiotic stress. Transgenic rice with chloroplast-targeted choline oxidase encoded by the codA gene from Arthrobacter globiformis has been evaluated for inheritance of transgene up to R5 generation and water-stress tolerance. During seedling, vegetative and reproductive stages, transgenic plants could maintain higher activity of photosystem II and they show better physiological performance, for example, enhanced detoxification of reactive oxygen species compared to wild-type plants under water-stress. Survival rate and agronomic performance of transgenic plants is also better than wild-type following prolonged water-stress. Choline oxidase converts choline into GB and H2O2 in a single step. It is possible that H2O2/GB might activate stress response pathways and prepare transgenic plants to mitigate stress. To check this possibility, microarray-based transcriptome analysis of transgenic rice has been done. It unravelled altered expression of many genes involved in stress responses, signal transduction, gene regulation, hormone signalling and cellular metabolism. Overall, 165 genes show more than two-fold up-regulation at P-value < 0.01 in transgenic rice. Out of these, at least 50 genes are known to be involved in plant stress response. Exogenous application of H2O2 or GB to wild-type plants also induces such genes. Our data show that metabolic engineering for GB is a promising strategy for introducing stress tolerance in crop plants and which could be imparted, in part, by H2O2- and/or GB-induced stress response genes.
19491089	The inflorescence of grass species such as wheat, rice and maize consists of a unique reproductive structure called the spikelet, which is comprised of one, a few, or several florets (individual flowers). When reproductive growth is initiated, the inflorescence meristem differentiates a spikelet meristem as a lateral branch; the spikelet meristem then produces a floret meristem as a lateral branch. Interestingly, in wheat, the number of fertile florets per spikelet is associated with ploidy level: one or two florets in diploid, two or three in tetraploid, and more than three in hexaploid wheats. The objective of this study was to identify the mechanisms that regulate the architecture of the inflorescence in wheat and its relationship to ploidy level. The floral anatomy of diploid (Triticum monococcum), tetraploid (T. turgidum ssp. durum) and hexaploid (T. aestivum) wheat species were investigated by light and scanning electron microscopy to describe floret development and to clarify the timing of the initiation of the floret primordia. In situ hybridization analysis using Wknox1, a wheat knotted1 orthologue, was performed to determine the patterning of meristem formation in the inflorescence. The recessive natural mutation of tetraploid (T. turgidum ssp. turgidum) wheat, branching head (bh), which produces branched inflorescences, was used to demonstrate the utility of Wknox1 as a molecular marker for meristematic tissue. Then an analysis of Wknox1 expression was performed in diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid wheats and heterochronic development of the floret meristems was found among these wheat species. It is shown that the difference in the number of floret primordia in diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid wheats is caused by the heterochronic initiation of floret meristem development from the spikelet meristem.
19493335	Members of plant WRKY transcription factor families are widely implicated in defense responses and various other physiological processes. For canola (Brassica napus L.), no WRKY genes have been described in detail. Because of the economic importance of this crop, and its evolutionary relationship to Arabidopsis thaliana, we sought to characterize a subset of canola WRKY genes in the context of pathogen and hormone responses. In this study, we identified 46 WRKY genes from canola by mining the expressed sequence tag (EST) database and cloned cDNA sequences of 38 BnWRKYs. A phylogenetic tree was constructed using the conserved WRKY domain amino acid sequences, which demonstrated that BnWRKYs can be divided into three major groups. We further compared BnWRKYs to the 72 WRKY genes from Arabidopsis and 91 WRKY from rice, and we identified 46 presumptive orthologs of AtWRKY genes. We examined the subcellular localization of four BnWRKY proteins using green fluorescent protein (GFP) and we observed the fluorescent green signals in the nucleus only.The responses of 16 selected BnWRKY genes to two fungal pathogens, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum and Alternaria brassicae, were analyzed by quantitative real time-PCR (qRT-PCR). Transcript abundance of 13 BnWRKY genes changed significantly following pathogen challenge: transcripts of 10 WRKYs increased in abundance, two WRKY transcripts decreased after infection, and one decreased at 12 h post-infection but increased later on (72 h). We also observed that transcript abundance of 13/16 BnWRKY genes was responsive to one or more hormones, including abscisic acid (ABA), and cytokinin (6-benzylaminopurine, BAP) and the defense signaling molecules jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), and ethylene (ET). We compared these transcript expression patterns to those previously described for presumptive orthologs of these genes in Arabidopsis and rice, and observed both similarities and differences in expression patterns. We identified a set of 13 BnWRKY genes from among 16 BnWRKY genes assayed, that are responsive to both fungal pathogens and hormone treatments, suggesting shared signaling mechanisms for these responses. This study suggests that a large number of BnWRKY proteins are involved in the transcriptional regulation of defense-related genes in response to fungal pathogens and hormone stimuli.
19493665	Progress in the past quarter-century on understanding the molecular, cellular, and in vivo components of the mucosal immune system have allowed us to develop a practical strategy for a novel mucosal vaccine. The mucosal immune system can induce secretory IgA (SIgA) and serum IgG responses to provide two layers of defense against mucosal pathogens. For SIgA-mediated immunity in the gastrointestinal tract, the gut-associated lymphoid tissue contains both the tissue-dependent and tissue-independent IgA components. Harnessing the mucosal immune system for vaccine development may help prevent the global health problems caused by enteric infectious diseases. We have therefore combined mucosal immunology and plant biology to create a rice-based mucosal vaccine that requires neither needles and syringes nor refrigeration.
19494500	To elucidate the usefulness of antigen-specific immunotherapy based on oral vaccination with an edible part of the plant, we examined the effect of transgenic (Tg) rice seeds expressing an immunodominant fragment of the group 1 antigen of Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (Der p 1) on a murine model of asthma. Mice were orally vaccinated with the Tg or non-Tg rice seeds for 2 weeks, then they were immunized with recombinant Der p 1 (rDer p 1) and alum intraperitoneally. Antigen-induced immune responses, such as proliferation and cytokine production of CD4+ T cells, antigen-specific serum IgE and IgG, and infiltration of inflammatory cells into the airways were investigated in those mice. The proliferation and Th2 cytokine production of CD4+ T cells in vitro, antigen-specific IgE and IgG synthesis as well as accumulation of eosinophils and lymphocytes into the airways in vivo were significantly inhibited by administration of the Tg rice. These results suggest that the edible vaccines using Tg rice seeds are useful for the treatment of allergic disorders including bronchial asthma.
19494694	The antibiotic meroparamycin was produced in the free culture system of Streptomyces sp. strain MAR01. Five solid substrates (rice, wheat bran, Quaker, bread, and ground corn) were screened for their ability to support meroparamycin production in solid-state fermentation. In batch culture, wheat bran recorded the highest antibacterial activity with the lowest residual substrate values. The highest residual substrate values were recorded for both ground corn and Quaker. On the other hand, no antibacterial activity was detected for rice as a solid substrate. The use of the original strength of starch-nitrate medium in the solid-state fermentation gave a lower antibacterial activity compared with the free culture system. Doubling the strength of this medium resulted in the increase in the activity to be equivalent to the free culture. The initial pH (7.0) of the culture medium and 2 ml of spore suspension (1 ml contains 5x10(9) spores/ml) were the optima for antibiotic production. The water was the best eluent for the extraction of the antibiotic from the solid-state culture. Ten min was enough time to extract the antibiotic using a mixer, whereas, 60 min was required when shaking was applied. Semicontinuous production of meroparamycin using a percolation method demonstrated a more or less constant antibacterial activity over 4 runs (450-480 microg/ml). The semicontinuous production of the antibiotic was monitored in a fixed-bed bioreactor and the maximum activity was attained after the fourth run (510 microg/ml) and the overall process continued for 85 days.
19494696	We examined butanol fermentation by Clostridium beijerinckii NCIMB 8052 using various hydrolyzates obtained from rice bran, which is one of the most abundant agricultural by-products in Korea and Japan. In order to increase the amount of fermentable sugars in the hydrolyzates of rice bran, various hydrolysis procedures were applied. Eight different hydrolyzates were prepared using rice bran (RB) and defatted rice bran (DRB) with enzyme or acid treatment or both. Each hydrolyzate was evaluated in terms of total sugar concentration and butanol production after fermentation by C. beijerinckii NCIMB 8052. Acid treatment yielded more sugar than enzyme treatment, and combined treatment with enzyme and acid yielded even more sugars as compared with single treatment with enzyme or acid. As a result, the highest sugar concentration (33 g/l) was observed from the hydrolyzate from DRB (100 g/l) with combined treatment using enzyme and acid. Prior to fermentation of the hydrolyzates, we examined the effect of P2 solution containing yeast extract, buffer, minerals, and vitamins on production of butanol during the fermentation. Fermentation of the hydrolyzates with or without addition of P2 was performed using C. beijerinckii NCIMB 8052 in a 1-l anaerobic bioreactor. Although the RB hydrolyzates were able to support growth and butanol production, addition of P2 solution into the hydrolyzates significantly improved cell growth and butanol production. The highest butanol production (12.24 g/l) was observed from the hydrolyzate of DRB with acid and enzyme treatment after supplementation of P2 solution.
19494699	Although the Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin B subunit (LTB) has already been expressed in several different systems, including prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, studies regarding the synthesis of LTB into oligomeric structures of pentameric size in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae have been limited. Therefore, this study used a functional signal peptide of the amylase 1A protein from rice to direct the yeast-expressed LTB towards the endoplasmic reticulum to oligomerize with the expected pentameric size. The expression and assembly of the recombinant LTB were confirmed in both the cell-free extract and culture media of the recombinant strain using a Western blot analysis. The binding of the LTB pentamers to intestinal epithelial cell membrane glycolipid receptors was further verified using a GM1-ganglioside enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (GM1-ELISA). On the basis of the GM1-ELISA results, pentameric LTB proteins comprised approximately 0.5-2.0% of the total soluble proteins, and the maximum quantity of secreted LTB was estimated to be 3 mg/l after a 3-day cultivation period. Consequently, the synthesis of LTB monomers and their assembly into biologically active oligomers in a recombinant S. cerevisiae strain demonstrated the feasibility of using a GRAS microorganism-based adjuvant, as well as the development of carriers against mucosal disease.
19495721	A late heading-time mutant line, HS276, which was induced by gamma-irradiation of seeds of the japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) variety Gimbozu, exhibits an extremely long basic vegetative growth phase (BVP). A genetic analysis using the F(2) population from the cross between HS276 and Gimbozu revealed that the late heading of HS276 is governed by a single recessive mutant gene. The subsequent analysis on heading responses of HS276 and Gimbozu to four photoperiods (12, 13, 14, and 15 h) and to the photoperiodic transfer treatment from a short photoperiod to a long photoperiod revealed that the mutant gene confers an extremely long BVP and increases photoperiod sensitivity under long photoperiod (14 and 15 h). The BVP durations of HS276 and Gimbozu were estimated at 30.1 and 16.0 days, respectively; the mutant gene, compared with its wild type allele, elongates the duration of BVP by 14 days. Linkage analysis showed that the mutant gene is located in the 129 kb region between the two INDEL markers, INDELAP0399_6 and INDELAP3487_2, on the distal part of the short arm of chromosome 6. None of the other BVP genes are located in this region; therefore, we declared this a newly detected mutant gene and designated it ef7. A recently established program to breed rice suitable for low latitudes, where short photoperiodic conditions continue throughout the year, aims to develop varieties with extremely long BVPs and weak photoperiod sensitivities; the mutant gene ef7, therefore, will be quite useful in these programs because it confers an extremely long BVP and little enhances photoperiod sensitivity under short photoperiod.
19496010	Delta regions of the Cauvery River basin are one of the significant areas of rice production in India. In spite of large-scale utilization of the river basin for irrigation and drinking purposes, the lack of appropriate water management has seemingly deteriorated the water quality due to increasing anthropogenic activities. To assess the extent of deterioration, physicochemical characteristics of surface water were analyzed monthly in select regions of Cauvery Delta River basin, India, during July 2007 to December 2007. Total dissolved solids, chemical oxygen demand, and phosphate recorded maximum levels of 1,638, 96, and 0.43 mg/l, respectively, exceeding the permissible levels at certain sampling stations. Monsoonal rains in Cauvery River basin and the subsequent increase in river flow rate influences certain parameters like dissolved solids, phosphate, and dissolved oxygen. Agricultural runoff from watershed, sewage, and industrial effluents are suspected as probable factors of water pollution.
19497673	Duddingtonia flagrans is a nematode-trapping fungus responsible for attacking larval stages of helminthes in pasture. D. flagrans chlamydospores were produced using a two-step liquid/solid culture system. The inoculum grown in liquid medium was transferred to a rice substrate and kept at room temperature for 30 days. Grains were washed, filtered and centrifuged. The pellet was lyophilized and the obtained yield averaged 1 x 10(5) chlamydospores per gram of dried material. The lyophilized chlamydospores showed a trapping rate of 69% of infective larvae in vitro and were excreted entirely in ovine faeces. The results showed that most of the chlamydospores remained intact and viable after the lyophilization process.
19497862	All energy scenarios show a shift toward an increased percentage of renewable energy sources, including biomass. This study gives an overview of water footprints (WFs) of bioenergy from 12 crops that currently contribute the most to global agricultural production: barley, cassava, maize, potato, rapeseed, rice, rye, sorghum, soybean, sugar beet, sugar cane, and wheat. In addition, this study includes jatropha, a suitable energy crop. Since climate and production circumstances differ among regions, calculations have been performed by country. The WF of bioelectricity is smaller than that of biofuels because it is more efficient to use total biomass (e.g., for electricity or heat) than a fraction of the crop (its sugar, starch, or oil content) for biofuel. The WF of bioethanol appears to be smaller than that of biodiesel. For electricity, sugar beet, maize, and sugar cane are the most favorable crops [50 m(3)/gigajoule (GJ)]. Rapeseed and jatropha, typical energy crops, are disadvantageous (400 m(3)/GJ). For ethanol, sugar beet, and potato (60 and 100 m(3)/GJ) are the most advantageous, followed by sugar cane (110 m(3)/GJ); sorghum (400 m(3)/GJ) is the most unfavorable. For biodiesel, soybean and rapeseed show to be the most favorable WF (400 m(3)/GJ); jatropha has an adverse WF (600 m(3)/GJ). When expressed per L, the WF ranges from 1,400 to 20,000 L of water per L of biofuel. If a shift toward a greater contribution of bioenergy to energy supply takes place, the results of this study can be used to select the crops and countries that produce bioenergy in the most water-efficient way.
19500308	Heat stress induces an array of physiological adjustments that facilitate continued homeostasis and survival during periods of elevated temperatures. Here, we report that within minutes of a sudden temperature increase, plants deploy specific phospholipids to specific intracellular locations: phospholipase D (PLD) and a phosphatidylinositolphosphate kinase (PIPK) are activated, and phosphatidic acid (PA) and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) rapidly accumulate, with the heat-induced PIP(2) localized to the plasma membrane, nuclear envelope, nucleolus and punctate cytoplasmic structures. Increases in the steady-state levels of PA and PIP(2) occur within several minutes of temperature increases from ambient levels of 20-25 degrees C to 35 degrees C and above. Similar patterns were observed in heat-stressed Arabidopsis seedlings and rice leaves. The PA that accumulates in response to temperature increases results in large part from the activation of PLD rather than the sequential action of phospholipase C and diacylglycerol kinase, the alternative pathway used to produce this lipid. Pulse-labelling analysis revealed that the PIP(2) response is due to the activation of a PIPK rather than inhibition of a lipase or a PIP(2) phosphatase. Inhibitor experiments suggest that the PIP(2) response requires signalling through a G-protein, as aluminium fluoride blocks heat-induced PIP(2) increases. These results are discussed in the context of the diverse cellular roles played by PIP(2) and PA, including regulation of ion channels and the cytoskeleton.
19500844	The effects of two different neem products (Parker Oil and Neema) on mortality, food consumption and survival of the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens Stål (BPH) (Homoptera: Delphacidae) were investigated. The LC(50) (3.45 ml/L for nymph and 4.42 ml/L for adult in Parker Oil treatment; 4.18 ml/L for nymph and 5.63 ml/L for adult in Neema treatment) and LC(90) (8.72 ml/L for nymph and 11.1 ml/L for adult in Parker Oil treatment; 9.84 ml/L for nymph and 13.07 ml/L for adult in Neema treatment) were identified by probit analysis. The LC(90) (equal to recommended dose) was applied in the rice field. The effective concentration of both Parker Oil and Neema took more than 48 h to kill 80% of the N. lugens. Fourth instar nymph and adult female N. lugens were caged on rice plants and exposed to a series (both LC(50) and LC(90)) of neem concentrations. Nymph and adult female N. lugens that were chronically exposed to neem pesticides showed immediate mortality after application in laboratory experiment. The quantity of food ingested and assimilated by N. lugens on neem-treated rice plants was significantly less than on control rice plants. The results clearly indicate the neem-based pesticide (Parker Oil and Neema), containing low lethal concentration, can be used effectively to inhibit the growth and survival of N. lugens.
19501016	The metalloid arsenic and the heavy metal cadmium have no demonstrated biological function in plants. Both elements are highly toxic and of major concern with respect to their accumulation in soils, in the food-chain or in drinking water. Arsenate is taken up by phosphate transporters and rapidly reduced to arsenite, As(III). In reducing environments, As(III) is taken up by aquaporin nodulin 26-like intrinsic proteins. Cd(2+) enters the root via essential metal uptake systems. As(III) and Cd(2+) share some similarity between their toxicology and sequestration machineries. Recent progress in understanding the mechanisms of As and Cd uptake and detoxification is presented, including the elucidation of why rice takes up so much arsenic from soil and of mechanisms of As and Cd hypertolerance.
19501384	Research increasingly suggests that enantiomer selectivity may be a part of the toxicological effects of chiral contaminants. In this study, we selected Japonica rice variety Xiushui 63 seedlings to evaluate the enantioselectivity of imazethapyr (IM). Significant differences in rice seedling morphology, antioxidant enzyme, oxidant marker and gene transcription were observed between the two IM enantiomers. In the seedling morphological assay, IM enantiomers inhibited elongation of primary roots and shoots, and reduced the number of adventitious roots and the density of root hairs. The inhibitory effects were enhanced with increasing concentrations of IM. The maximal root relative inhibition rate reached 80.4%, 67.0%, and 73.5% for R-(-)-IM, S-(+)-IM and racemate at the concentration of 0.5 mg L(-1), respectively, and the maximal shoot relative inhibition rate reached 77.7%, 26.9%, and 61.7%, respectively. The activities of SOD, POD and CAT and the content of MDA increased at 0.5 mg L(-1) of R-(-)-IM treatment, and were 1.8, 3.3, 1.4, and 2.2 times, respectively, over the activities S-(+)-IM. Real-time PCR showed that R-(-)-IM minimized the transcript abundance of ALS in shoot tissue to 12.2% of the S-(+)-IM, and minimized the transcript abundance of PC in seed to 9.2% of the S-(+)-IM. R-(-)-IM maximized the transcript abundance of beta-amylase in shoots to 8.6-time of the S-(+)-IM. Results from this study imply that R-(-)-IM has stronger toxicity on the growth of rice than S-(+)-IM.
19501499	Application of municipal solid waste compost (MSWC) to agricultural soils is becoming an increasingly important global practice to enhance and sustain soil organic matter (SOM) and fertility levels. Potential risks associated with heavy metals and phosphorus accumulations in surface soils may be minimized with integrated nutrient management strategies that utilize MSWC together with mineral fertilizers. To explore the economic feasibility of MSWC applications, nutrient management plans were developed for rice-wheat and cotton-wheat cropping systems within the Punjab region of Pakistan. Three-year field trials were conducted to measure yields and to determine the economic benefits using three management strategies and two nutrient doses. Management strategies included the application of mineral fertilizers as the sole nutrient source and application of mineral fertilizers in combination with MSWC with and without pesticide/herbicide treatments. Fertilizer doses were either based on standard N, P and K recommendations or on measured site-specific soil plant available phosphorus (PAP) levels. It was found that combining MSWC and mineral fertilizer applications based on site-specific PAP levels with the use of pesticides and herbicides is an economically and environmentally viable management strategy. Results show that incorporation of MSWC improved soil physical properties such as bulk density and penetration resistance. The PAP levels in the surface layer increased by the end of the trials relative to the initial status. No potential risks of heavy metal (Zn, Cd, Cr, Pb and Ni) accumulation were observed. Treatments comprised of MSWC and mineral fertilizer adjusted to site-specific PAP levels and with common pest management showed highest cumulative yields. A basic economic analysis revealed a significantly higher cumulative net profit and value-to-cost ratio (VCR) for all site-specific doses.
19501876	Major rivers in developing and emerging countries suffer increasingly of severe degradation of water quality. The current study uses a mathematical Material Flow Analysis (MMFA) as a complementary approach to address the degradation of river water quality due to nutrient pollution in the Thachin River Basin in Central Thailand. This paper gives an overview of the origins and flow paths of the various point- and non-point pollution sources in the Thachin River Basin (in terms of nitrogen and phosphorus) and quantifies their relative importance within the system. The key parameters influencing the main nutrient flows are determined and possible mitigation measures discussed. The results show that aquaculture (as a point source) and rice farming (as a non-point source) are the key nutrient sources in the Thachin River Basin. Other point sources such as pig farms, households and industries, which were previously cited as the most relevant pollution sources in terms of organic pollution, play less significant roles in comparison. This order of importance shifts when considering the model results for the provincial level. Crosschecks with secondary data and field studies confirm the plausibility of our simulations. Specific nutrient loads for the pollution sources are derived; these can be used for a first broad quantification of nutrient pollution in comparable river basins. Based on an identification of the sensitive model parameters, possible mitigation scenarios are determined and their potential to reduce the nutrient load evaluated. A comparison of simulated nutrient loads with measured nutrient concentrations shows that nutrient retention in the river system may be significant. Sedimentation in the slow flowing surface water network as well as nitrogen emission to the air from the warm oxygen deficient waters are certainly partly responsible, but also wetlands along the river banks could play an important role as nutrient sinks.
19502333	A Gram-negative-staining, non-spore-forming bacterium devoid of flagella, designated strain B9(T), was isolated from rice paddy soil associated with the roots of Oryza sativa collected from Jinju, South Korea. Cells were straight rods, were catalase- and oxidase-positive and were able to hydrolyse pectin, xylan and laminarin. Growth of strain B9(T) was observed between 15 and 35 degrees C (optimum 25-30 degrees C) and between pH 5.0 and 8.0 (optimum pH 6.5-7.5). Strain B9(T) contained menaquinone-7 (MK-7) as a major isoprenoid quinone and summed feature 3 (C(16 : 1)omega7c and/or iso-C(15 : 0) 2-OH), iso-C(15 : 0) and C(16 : 0) as major fatty acids. The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 44.4 mol%. Comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis showed that strain B9(T) belonged to the genus Mucilaginibacter, a member of the family Sphingobacteriaceae, and was most closely related to Mucilaginibacter kameinonensis SCK(T) (95.9 % sequence similarity). On the basis of chemotaxonomic data and molecular properties, strain B9(T) represents a novel species of the genus Mucilaginibacter, for which the name Mucilaginibacter oryzae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is B9(T) (=KACC 12816(T) =DSM 19975(T)).
19502382	OsRac1, a member of the Rac/Rop GTPase family, plays important roles as a molecular switch in rice innate immunity, and the active form of OsRac1 functions in the plasma membrane (PM). To study the precise localization of OsRac1 in the PM and its possible association with other signaling components, we performed proteomic analysis of DRMs (detergent-resistant membranes) isolated from rice suspension-cultured cells transformed with myc-tagged constitutively active (CA) OsRac1. DRMs are regions of the PM that are insoluble after Triton X-100 treatment under cold conditions and are thought to be involved in various signaling processes in animal, yeast and plant cells. We identified 192 proteins in DRMs that included receptor-like kinases (RLKs) such as Xa21, nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NB-LRR)-type disease resistance proteins, a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored protein, syntaxin, NADPH oxidase, a WD-40 repeat family protein and various GTP-binding proteins. Many of these proteins have been previously identified in the DRMs isolated from other plant species, and animal and yeast cells, validating the methods used in our study. To examine the possible association of DRMs and OsRac1-mediated innate immunity, we used rice suspension-cultured cells transformed with myc-tagged wild-type (WT) OsRac1 and found that OsRac1 and RACK1A, an effector of OsRac1, shifted to the DRMs after chitin elicitor treatment. These results suggest that OsRac1-mediated innate immunity is associated with DRMs in the PM.
19502383	Analysis of genetic mutations is one of the most effective ways to investigate gene function. We now have methods that allow for mass production of mutant lines and cells in a variety of model species. Recently, large numbers of mutant lines have been generated by both 'loss-of-function' and 'gain-of-function' techniques. In parallel, phenotypic information covering various mutant resources has been acquired and released in web-based databases. As a result, significant progress in comprehensive phenotype analysis is being made through the use of these tools. Arabidopsis and rice are two major model plant species in which genome sequencing projects have been completed. Arabidopsis is the most widely used experimental plant, with a large number of mutant resources and several examples of systematic phenotype analysis. Rice is a major crop species and is used as a model plant, with an increasing number of mutant resources. Other plant species are also being employed in functional genetics research. In this review, the present status of mutant resources for large-scale studies of gene function in plant research and the current perspective on using loss-of-function and gain-of-function mutants in phenome research will be discussed.
19502734	DIMBOA [2,4-dihydroxy-7-methoxy-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one] is a benzoxazinoid (Bx), part of the chemical defense system of graminaceous plants such as maize, wheat, and rye. When Bombyx mori larvae were fed artificial diets containing DIMBOA, they died in three days. In contrast, Mythimna separata larvae, a serious pest of rice, maize, sorghum, wheat etc., grew well on the same diets. Three kinds of glucosides [1-(2-hydroxy-4-methoxyphenylamino)-1-deoxy-beta-glucopyranoside-1,2-carbamate (methoxy glucoside carbamate), 2-O-beta-glucopyranosyl-4-hydroxy-7-methoxy-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one (DIMBOA-2-O-Glc), and 2-O-beta-glucopyranosyl-7-methoxy-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one (HMBOA-2-O-Glc)] were identified by LC-MS and NMR analyses from the frass of M. separata that had been fed on a DIMBOA-containing diet. Furthermore, the incubation of DIMBOA with a midgut tissue suspension of M. separata in the presence of UDP-D-glucose generated DIMBOA-2-O-Glc. These findings strongly suggest that glucosylation by UDP-glucosyltransferase(s) was important for detoxification to circumvent the defenses of host plants against M. separata larvae.
19502737	The antibacterial activity of recombinant human lactoferrin from rice (rhLF) compared with that of human milk lactoferrin (hLF) was evaluated against Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella Enteritidis and Listeria monocytogenes. The hydrolysates of rhLF and hLF were found to be more active than native proteins against E. coli O157:H7, and their activity was independent of their iron saturation. The effect of different heat treatments on the antibacterial activity of apo-rhLF was studied and compared with hLF. We observed that an HTST pasteurization treatment did not affect the antimicrobial activity of lactoferrin against the pathogens studied. Furthermore, the activity of apo-rhLF and hLF against E. coli O157:H7 and L. monocytogenes in UHT milk and whey was assayed, finding a decrease in the number of bacteria, although lower than that observed in a broth medium. This study shows the similar antibacterial activity of rhLF and hLF which is important in order to consider the addition of rhLF as a supplement in special products.
19504082	Transgene outflow from genetically modified (GM) rice to its wild relatives may cause undesirable ecological consequences. Understanding the level of transgene expression in wild rice following gene flow is important for assessing such consequences, providing that transgene escape from GM rice cannot be prevented. To determine the expression of a transgene in common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon), we analyzed the content of Cry1Ac protein in three GM rice lines containing a Bt transgene, their F(1) hybrids with common wild rice and F(2) progeny at different growth stages, using the sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The average content of Cry1Ac protein in leaf samples of the wild rice lines ranged between 0.016 and 0.069% during the entire growth period, whereas that in stems varied between 0.12 and 0.39%. A great variation in Cry1Ac protein content was detected among individuals of F(1) hybrids and F(2) progeny, with some wild individuals showing higher level of Bt toxin than the cultivated GM rice. The results suggest that the Bt transgene can express normally in the interspecific hybrids between insect-resistant GM rice and common wild rice, and may have similar effects on the target insects as in GM rice.
19505461	Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are known to function in the nucleus. Here, we report on the organellar localization of three rice HDACs, OsSIR2b, OsHDAC6, and OsHDAC10. The 35S:OsSIR2b-GFP and 35S:OsHDAC10-GFP constructs were introduced into tobacco BY2 cells. Co-localization analysis of the green fluorescent protein and MitoTracker fluorescent signals in the transformed BY2 cells indicated that OsSIR2b and OsHDAC10 are localized in the mitochondria. Transgenic Arabidopsis lines harboring 35S:OsHDAC6-GFP and 35S:OsHDAC10-GFP constructs were similarly analyzed, revealing that OsHDAC6-GFP is localized exclusively in chloroplasts, whereas OsHDAC10-GFP is localized in both mitochondria and chloroplasts. The presence of OsHDAC6-GFP and OsHDAC10-GFP in chloroplasts was verified by immunodetection.
19506000	Disease response genes (DRGs) diverge under recurrent positive selection as a result of a molecular arms race between hosts and pathogens. Most of these studies were conducted in animals, and few defense genes have been shown to evolve adaptively in plants. To test for adaptation in the molecules mediating disease resistance in the cereals, we first combined information from the expression pattern of Sorghum bicolor genes and from divergence to the full genome of rice to identify candidate DRGs. We then used evolutionary analyses of orthologous gene sets from several grass species, to determine whether the DRGs show signals of positive selection and the residues targeted. We found 140 divergent genes upregulated under biotic stress in S. bicolor by evaluating the relative abundance of expressed sequence tags in different libraries and comparing them with rice genes. For 10 of these genes, we found sets of orthologs including sequences from rice and three other cereals; six genes showed a pattern of substitution that was consistent with positive selection. Three of these genes, a thaumatin, a peroxidase, and a barley mlo homolog, are known antifungal proteins. The other three genes with evidence of positive selection were a MCM-1 agamous deficiens SRF- (MADS) box transcription factor, an eIF5 translation initiation factor, and a gene of unknown function but with evidence of expression during stress. Permutation analyses, using different ortholog and paralog sequences, consistently identified five positively selected codons in the peroxidase, a member of a cluster of genes and a large gene family. We mapped the positively selected residues onto the structure of the peroxidase and thaumatin and found that all sites are on the surface of these proteins and several are close to biochemically determined active sites. Identifying new positively selected plant disease resistance genes and the critical amino acid sites provides a basis for functional studies that may increase our understanding of their underlying molecular mechanisms of action. Additionally, it may lead to the identification of individuals having variation at functionally important sites, as well as eventually using this information in the rational design and engineering of proteins involved in plant disease resistance.
19506305	Unlike maize and wheat, where artificial selection is associated with an almost uniform increase in seed or grain size, domesticated rice exhibits dramatic phenotypic diversity for grain size and shape. Here we clone and characterize GS3, an evolutionarily important gene controlling grain size in rice. We show that GS3 is highly expressed in young panicles in both short- and long-grained varieties but is not expressed in leaves or panicles after flowering, and we use genetic transformation to demonstrate that the dominant allele for short grain complements the long-grain phenotype. An association study revealed that a C to A mutation in the second exon of GS3 (A allele) was associated with enhanced grain length in Oryza sativa but was absent from other Oryza species. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) was elevated and there was a 95.7% reduction in nucleotide diversity (theta(pi)) across the gene in accessions carrying the A allele, suggesting positive selection for long grain. Haplotype analysis traced the origin of the long-grain allele to a Japonica-like ancestor and demonstrated introgression into the Indica gene pool. This study indicates a critical role for GS3 in defining the seed morphologies of modern subpopulations of O. sativa and enhances the potential for genetic manipulation of grain size in rice.
19506306	Rice blast, caused by Magnaporthe oryzae, is one of the most devastating diseases. The two major subspecies of Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.), indica and japonica, have shown obvious differences in rice blast resistance, but the genomic basis that underlies the difference is not clear. We performed a genomewide comparison of the major class of resistant gene family, the nucleotide-binding site-leucine-rich repeat (NBS-LRR) gene family, between 93-11 (indica) and Nipponbare (japonica) with a focus on their pseudogene members. We found great differences in either constitution or distribution of pseudogenes between the two genomes. According to this comparison, we designed the PCR-based molecular markers specific to the Nipponbare NBS-LRR pseudogene alleles and used them as cosegregation markers for blast susceptibility in a segregation population from a cross between a rice blast-resistant indica variety and a susceptible japonica variety. Through this approach, we identified a new blast resistance gene, Pid3, in the indica variety, Digu. The allelic Pid3 loci in most of the tested japonica varieties were identified as pseudogenes due to a nonsense mutation at the nucleotide position 2208 starting from the translation initiation site. However, this mutation was not found in any of the tested indica varieties, African cultivated rice varieties, or AA genome-containing wild rice species. These results suggest that the pseudogenization of Pid3 in japonica occurred after the divergence of indica and japonica.
19506806	Forty weaned male guinea pigs (Cavia porcellus) of 152.6 +/- 7.96 g mean body weight were divided into four equal groups and fed a common basal diet comprised of 25% ground cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) hay, 30% ground maize (Zea mays) grain, 22% ground gram (Cicer arietinum) grain, 9.5% deoiled rice (Oryza sativa) bran, 6% soybean (Glycine max) meal, 6% fish meal, 1.5% mineral mixture (without Se), and ascorbic acid at 200 mg/kg to meet their nutrient requirements along with 0, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.3 ppm of organic selenium (Se) in groups I, II, III, and IV, respectively. Experimental feeding lasted for a period of 10 weeks, during which, daily feed intake and weekly body weights were recorded. Intake and digestibility of dry matter, organic matter, ether extract, crude fiber, and nitrogen-free extract as well as uptake of calcium and phosphorus were similar (P > 0.05) among the four groups. Feed:gain ratio was also similar (P > 0.05) in the four groups. However, digestibility of crude protein was significantly (P < 0.001) higher in group II supplemented with 0.1 ppm organic Se as compared to other three group. Intake and absorption of Se was significantly (P < 0.001) higher in all the Se supplemented groups as compared to control group. Average daily gain (ADG) was significantly (P < 0.05) higher in group II (3.16 g/day) and III (3.38 g/day) as compared to group I (2.88 g/day). However, ADG in group IV (supplemented 0.3 ppm organic Se) was significantly (P < 0.05) lower (2.83 g/day) than group II and III, but comparable (P > 0.05) to group I. Findings of the present experiment suggests that Se requirements of guinea pigs are > or =0.2 ppm, as supplementation of 0.1 ppm organic Se in the diet (having 0.1 ppm Se) not only enhanced their growth rate but also improved the protein utilization.
19508198	A series of elegant phosphorylation site prediction methods have been developed, which are playing an increasingly important role in accelerating the experimental characterization of phosphorylation sites in phosphoproteins. In this study, we selected six recently published methods (DISPHOS, NetPhosK, PPSP, KinasePhos, Scansite and PredPhospho) to evaluate their performance. First, we compiled three testing datasets containing experimentally verified phosphorylation sites for mammalian, Arabidopsis and rice proteins. Then, we present the prediction performance of the tested methods on these three independent datasets. Rather than quantitatively ranking the performance of these methods, we focused on providing an understanding of the overall performance of the predictors. Based on this evaluation, we found the following results: i) current phosphorylation site predictors are not effective for practical use and there is substantial need to improve phosphorylation site prediction; ii) current predictors perform poorly when used to predict phosphorylation sites in plant phosphoproteins, suggesting that a rice-specific predictor will be required to obtain confident computational annotation of phosphorylation sites in rice proteomics research; and iii) the tested predictors are complementary to some extent, implying that establishment of a meta-server might be a promising approach to developing an improved prediction system.
19508275	Crop plants require nitrogen for key macromolecules, such as DNA, proteins and metabolites, yet they are generally inefficient at acquiring nitrogen from the soil. Crop producers compensate for this low nitrogen utilization efficiency by applying nitrogen fertilizers. However, much of this nitrogen is unavailable to the plants as a result of microbial uptake and environmental loss of nitrogen, causing air, water and soil pollution. We engineered rice over-expressing alanine aminotransferase (AlaAT) under the control of a tissue-specific promoter that showed a strong nitrogen use efficiency phenotype. In this study, we examined the transcriptome response in roots and shoots to the over-expression of AlaAT to provide insights into the nitrogen-use-efficient phenotype of these plants. Transgenic and control rice plants were grown hydroponically and the root and shoot gene expression profiles were analysed using Affymetrix Rice GeneChip microarrays. Transcriptome analysis revealed that there was little impact on the transgenic transcriptome compared with controls, with 0.11% and 0.07% differentially regulated genes in roots and shoots, respectively. The most up-regulated transcripts, a glycine-rich cell wall (GRP) gene and a gene encoding a hypothetical protein (Os8823), were expressed in roots. Another transgenic root-specific up-regulated gene was leucine rich repeat (LRR). Genes induced in the transgenic shoots included GRP, LRR, acireductone dioxygenase (OsARD), SNF2 ATP-translocase and a putative leucine zipper transcription factor. This study provides a genome-wide view of the response to AlaAT over-expression, and elucidates some of the genes that may play a role in the nitrogen-use-efficient phenotype.
19508276	Low temperature is a major environmental stress for plants. Many important cultivated crops have limited capacity to survive below freezing/subfreezing temperatures. Low inorganic phosphate (Pi) is reportedly important in triggering cold acclimatization. SPX (SYG1/Pho81/XPR1: SYG1, suppressor of yeast gpal; Pho81, CDK inhibitor in yeast PHO pathway; XPR1, xenotropic and polytropic retrovirus receptor) domain proteins have been shown to be involved in the phosphate-related signal transduction and regulation pathways. Recently, Arabidopsis AtSPX family genes have been found to possess diverse functions in plant tolerance to phosphorus starvation, and OsSPX1 is involved in phosphate homeostasis in rice and optimizes growth under phosphate-limited conditions through a negative feedback loop. In this study, our phylogenetic and gene expression profiling approaches identified six rice OsSPX genes up-regulated during cold stress. Transgenic tobacco plants with constitutive expression of OsSPX1 were more tolerant to cold stress than were wild-type plants, and showed better seedling survival and reduced cellular electrolyte leakage. In addition, there was decreased total leaf Pi content and accumulation of free proline and sucrose in transgenic tobacco plants during cold stress. To further establish a cause-and-effect relationship between intracellular Pi level and cold acclimatization in transgenic plants, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants with constitutive expression of OsSPX1. Cold stress resulted in reduced leaf Pi levels in Arabidopsis transgenic relative to wild-type plants. From real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis, several Pi starvation-related genes, such as AtSPX1 (orthologue of OsSPX1), PHO2, PLDZ2 and ATSIZ1, showed differential expression between wild-type and transgenic plants during cold stress. Our results indicate that OsSPX1 may play an important role in linking cold stress and Pi starvation signal transduction pathways.
19508358	The phylogenetic relationship for classification traits and eight mineral elements in brown rice (Oryza sativa L.) from Yunnan Province in China was carried out using microwave assisted digestion followed by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy, and the analytical procedures were carefully controlled and validated. In general, the results show that the mean levels of K, Ca, Mg, Fe and Cu in brown rice for 789 accessions of rice landraces was distinctly lower than that of improved cultivars. They further demonstrate that Ca plays an important role in the differentiation of subspecies indica-japonica, especially to enhance adaptation of cold stress, and that five mineral elements in brown rice enhance the eurytopicity from landrace to improved cultivar. Hierarchical cluster analysis, using average linkage from SPSS software based on eight mineral elements in brown rice, showed that Yunnan rice could be grouped into rice landrace and improved cultivar, with the rice landrace being further clustered into five subgroups, and that, interestingly, purple rice does not cluster with either of the groups. Our present data confirm that indica is the closest relative of late rice and white rice, and that they constitute rice landraces together, whereas japonica is the closest relatives of non-nuda, early-mid and glutinous rice. It is further shown that japonica, non-nuda, early-mid, glutinous, white and red rice might be more primitive than indica, nuda, late, non-glutinous and purple rice, respectively.
19508361	The demand for high quality rice represents a major issue in rice production. The primary components of rice grain quality include appearance, eating, cooking, physico-chemical, milling and nutritional qualities. Most of these traits are complex and controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTLs), so the genetic characterization of these traits is more difficult than that of traits controlled by a single gene. The detection and genetic identification of QTLs can provide insights into the genetic mechanisms underlying quality traits. Chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) are effective tools used in mapping QTLs. In this study, we constructed 154 CSSLs from backcross progeny (BC(3)F(2)) derived from a cross between 'Koshihikari' (an Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica variety) as the recurrent parent and 'Nona Bokra' (an O. sativa L. ssp. indica variety) as the donor parent. In this process, we carried out marker-assisted selection by using 102 cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence and simple sequence repeat markers covering most of the rice genome. Finally, this set of CSSLs was used to identify QTLs for rice quality traits. Ten QTLs for rice appearance quality traits were detected and eight QTLs concerned physico-chemical traits. These results supply the foundation for further genetic studies and breeding for the improvement of grain quality.
19508424	The RNAs for the storage proteins of rice (Oryza sativa), prolamines and glutelins, which are stored as inclusions in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and storage vacuoles, respectively, are targeted by specific cis-localization elements to distinct subdomains of the cortical ER. Glutelin RNA has one or more cis-localization elements (zip codes) at the 3' end of the RNA, whereas prolamine has two cis-elements; one located in the 5' end of the coding sequence and a second residing in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR). We had earlier demonstrated that the RNAs for the maize zeins ('prolamine' class) are localized to the spherical protein body ER (PB-ER) in developing maize endosperm. As the PB-ER localization of the 10-kDa delta-zein RNA is maintained in developing rice seeds, we determined the number and proximate location of their cis-localization elements by expressing GFP fusions containing various zein RNA sequences in transgenic rice and analyzing their spatial distribution on the cortical ER by in situ RT-PCR and confocal microscopy. Four putative cis-localization elements were identified; three in the coding sequences and one in the 3'-UTR. Two of these zip codes are required for restricted localization to the PB-ER. Using RNA targeting determinants we show, by mis-targeting the storage protein RNAs from their normal destination on the cortical ER, that the coded proteins are redirected from their normal site of deposition. Targeting of RNA to distinct cortical ER subdomains may be the underlying basis for the variable use of the ER lumen or storage vacuole as the final storage deposition site of storage proteins among flowering plant species.
19508556	The microbial community in anoxic rice field soil produces CH(4) over a wide temperature range up to 55°C. However, at temperatures higher than about 40°C, the methanogenic path changes from CH(4) production by hydrogenotrophic plus acetoclastic methanogenesis to exclusively hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis and simultaneously, the methanogenic community consisting of Methanosarcinaceae, Methanoseataceae, Methanomicrobiales, Methanobacteriales and Rice Cluster I (RC-1) changes to almost complete dominance of RC-1. We studied changes in structure and function of the methanogenic community with temperature to see whether microbial members of the community were lost or their function impaired by exposure to high temperature. We characterized the function of the community by the path of CH(4) production measuring δ(13)C in CH(4) and CO(2) and calculating the apparent fractionation factor (α(app)) and the structure of the community by analysis of the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) of the microbial 16S rRNA genes. Shift of the temperature from 45°C to 35°C resulted in a corresponding shift of function and structure, especially when some 35°C soil was added to the 45°C soil. The bacterial community (T-RFLP patterns), which was much more diverse than the archaeal community, changed in a similar manner upon temperature shift. Incubation of a mixture of 35°C and 50°C pre-incubated methanogenic rice field soil at different temperatures resulted in functionally and structurally well-defined communities. Although function changed from a mixture of acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis to exclusively hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis over a rather narrow temperature range of 42-46°C, each of these temperatures also resulted in only one characteristic function and structure. Our study showed that temperature conditions defined structure and function of the methanogenic microbial community.
1951159	Three high-amylose rice varieties, IR42, IR36, and IR62, with similar chemical composition including amylose content (26.7-27.0%), were cooked under the same conditions and tested for in vitro digestibility as well as blood glucose and insulin responses in healthy human volunteers. The starch-digestion rate and the glycemic and insulin responses were the highest in IR42, followed by IR36 and, then IR62. The differences were not due to unabsorbed carbohydrate but were related to their physicochemical properties, such as gelatinization temperature, minimum cooking time, amylograph consistency, and volume expansion upon cooking. When the three varieties were cooked for their minimum cooking time, they had the same degree of gelatinization and their starch-digestion rates and glycemic responses were similar. We conclude that amylose content alone is not a good predictor of starch-digestion rate or glycemic response. Rice varieties with similar high-amylose contents can differ in physicochemical (gelatinization) properties and this, in turn, can influence starch digestibility and blood glucose response.
19513197	An elicitor derived from the cell wall of rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea) causes cell death in suspension cultured cells of rice (Oryza sativa L.). To elucidate the role of M. grisea elicitor on metabolic pathway of rice cells, we performed metabolite profiling using capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry (CE/MS). Treatment with M. grisea elicitor increased the amounts of antioxidants and free amino acids and decreased the amount of metabolites in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. Lower ATP concentration caused aberrant energy charge, concurrently with reduced amount of NAD(P)H in elicitor treated cells. Among free amino acids detected in this study, the level of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) increased. GABA is metabolized through a bypass pathway of the TCA cycle called GABA shunt, which is composed of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), GABA transaminase (GABA-T) and succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH). While M. grisea elicitor negligibly affected GAD and SSADH, GABA-T activity significantly decreased. The decrease in GABA-T activity was recovered by NADPH oxidase inhibitor, which prevents cell death induced by M. grisea elicitor. Thus, GABA accumulation observed in rice cells under elicitor stress is partly associated with GABA-T activity.
19513231	Plastids rely on multiple phosphate (Pi) transport activities to support and control a wide range of metabolic processes, including photosynthesis and carbon partitioning. Five of the six members of the PHT4 family of Pi transporters in Arabidopsis thaliana (PHT4;1-PHT4;5) are confirmed or predicted plastid proteins. As a step towards identifying the roles of individual PHT4 Pi transporters in chloroplast and non-photosynthetic plastid Pi dynamics, we used promoter-reporter gene fusions and quantitative RT-PCR studies, respectively, to determine spatial and diurnal gene expression patterns. PHT4;1 and PHT4;4 were both expressed predominantly in photosynthetic tissues, although expression of PHT4;1 was circadian and PHT4;4 was induced by light. PHT4;3 and PHT4;5 were expressed mainly in leaf phloem. PHT4;2 was expressed throughout the root, and exhibited a diurnal pattern with peak transcript levels in the dark. The remaining member of this gene family, PHT4;6, encodes a Golgi-localized protein and was expressed ubiquitously. The overlapping but distinct expression patterns for these genes suggest specialized roles for the encoded transporters in multiple types of differentiated plastids. Phylogenetic analysis revealed conservation of each of the orthologous members of the PHT4 family in Arabidopsis and rice, which is consistent with specialization, and suggests that the individual members of this transporter family diverged prior to the divergence of monocots and dicots.
19513237	Pre-harvest sprouting (PHS) leads to loss of grain weight and a reduction in the end use quality of kernels in cereals, especially in wheat, and PHS in rice also becomes a more and more serious problem recent years. Many factors are involved in the controlling this complex trait. Only recently, we have reported the large scale screening and charactersation of the rice phs mutants, providing insight into the molecular mechanism of pre-harvest sprouting in rice. It has been shown that mutations of genes in synthesis of the carotenoid precursors of ABA resulted in the pre-harvest sprouting, which is consequence of ABA deficiency, and photobleaching is likewise due to the absence of photoprotective carotenoids. The further study of all different rice phs mutants will help us to elucidate the complex phenomena and finally capture the target for improving PHS in rice or other cereals.
19513593	The evolution of the gall-inducing ability in insects and the adaptive significance of the galling habit have been addressed by many studies. Cicadulina bipunctata, the maize orange leafhopper, is an ideal study organism for evaluating these topics because it can be mass-reared and it feeds on model plants such as rice (Oryza sativa) and maize (Zea mays). To reveal differences between gall inductions by C. bipunctata and other gall inducers, we conducted four experiments concerning (a) the relationship between the feeding site and gall-induction sites of C. bipunctata on maize, (b) the effects of leafhopper sex and density, (c) the effects of length of infestation on gall induction, and (d) the effects of continuous infestation. C. bipunctata did not induce galls on the leaves where it fed but induced galls on other leaves situated at more distal positions. The degree of gall induction was significantly correlated with infestation density and length. These results indicate that C. bipunctata induces galls in a dose-dependent manner on leaves distant from feeding sites, probably by injecting chemical(s) to the plant during feeding. We suggest that insect galls are induced by a chemical stimulus injected by gall inducers during feeding into the hosts.
19513805	The TaPR60 gene from bread wheat encodes a small cysteine-rich protein with a hydrophobic signal peptide, predicted to direct the TaPR60 protein to a secretory pathway. It was demonstrated by heterologous expression of recombinant TaPR60 protein that the signal peptide is recognized and cleaved in yeast cells. The full-length gene including promoter sequence of a TaPR60 orthologue was cloned from a BAC library of Triticum durum. A transcriptional promoter-GUS fusion was stably transformed into wheat, barley and rice. The strongest GUS expression in wheat and barley was found in the endosperm transfer cells, while in rice the promoter was active inside the starchy endosperm during the early stages of grain filling. The TaPR60 gene was also used as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen. Five proteins were identified in the screen, and for some of these prey proteins, the interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation. The signal peptide binding proteins, TaUbiL1 and TaUbiL2, are homologues of animal proteins, which belong to proteolytic complexes, and therefore may be responsible for TaPR60 processing or degradation of the signal peptide. Other proteins that interact with TaPR60 may have a function in TaPR60 secretion or regulation of this process. Examination of a three dimensional model of TaPR60 suggested that this protein could be involved in binding of lipidic molecules.
19513840	Several plant-derived polysaccharides have been shown to have anti-inflammatory activity in animal models. Ambrotose complex and Advanced Ambrotose are dietary supplements that include aloe vera gel, arabinogalactan, fucoidan, and rice starch, all of which have shown such activity. This study was designed to evaluate these formulations against dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis in rats and to confirm their short-term safety after 14 days of daily dosing. Rats were dosed daily orally with vehicle, Ambrotose or Advanced Ambrotose. On day six groups of rats received tap water or 5% Dextran Sulfate sodium. Ambrotose and Advanced Ambrotose significantly lowered the disease scores and partially prevented the shortening of colon length. An increase in monocyte count was induced by dextran sulfate sodium and inhibited by Ambrotose and Advanced Ambrotose. There were no observable adverse effects after 14-day daily doses. The mechanism of action of the formulations against DSS-induced colitis may be related to its effect on monocyte count.
19515790	Ultraviolet B light (UV-B; 280-320 nm) perception and signaling are well-known phenomena in plants, although no specific UV-B photoreceptors have yet been identified. We previously reported on the root UV-B sensitive1 (rus1) mutants in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), which display a block to development under very-low-fluence-rate UV-B (<0.1 mumol m(-2) s(-1)) after the seedling emerges from the seed. Here, we report the analysis and cloning of the rus2-1 mutation in Arabidopsis. The phenotype of rus2-1 mutant seedlings is virtually indistinguishable from the phenotype of rus1 seedlings. A map-based approach was used to clone RUS2. RUS2 encodes a domain of unknown function (DUF647)-containing protein that is homologous to the RUS1 protein. rus1-2 rus2-1 double mutant seedlings have the same phenotype as both rus1 and rus2 single mutants, suggesting that the two genes work in the same pathway. RUS2-Green Fluorescent Protein shows a similar expression pattern as that of RUS1-Green Fluorescent Protein, and RUS1 and RUS2 proteins interact physically in yeast. This protein-protein interaction depends on the DUF647 domain, and site-directed mutagenesis identified specific residues in DUF647 that are required for both protein-protein interaction and physiological function. Six RUS genes are found in Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), and moss (Physcomitrella patens), and one RUS member, RUS3, is conserved in plants and animals. Our results demonstrate that RUS2 works with RUS1 in a root UV-B-sensing pathway that plays a vital role in Arabidopsis early seedling morphogenesis and development.
19517743	The antimicrobial effects of green tea and rosemary added to foods as antagonists to foodborne pathogens were determined in laboratory media and oriental-style rice cakes. The growth of each pathogen (Bacillus cereus, Salmonella Typhimurium, Enterobacter sakazakii, Escherichia coli O157:H7, Staphylococcus aureus, and Listeria monocytogenes) in tryptic soy broth or rice cake with or without addition of green tea or rosemary leaf powders before autoclaving or cooking, respectively, was investigated after inoculation. The addition of 1% green tea or rosemary produced similar results for inhibiting the growth of pathogens in tryptic soy broth. However, green tea was more effective than rosemary for inhibiting the growth of L. monocytogenes. Both botanicals had inhibitory effects against all pathogens tested in this study. Green tea was particularly effective against B. cereus, S. aureus, and L. monocytogenes, and rosemary was strongly inhibitory against B. cereus and S. aureus. The addition of 1 or 3% green tea or rosemary to rice cakes did not significantly reduce total aerobic counts; however, levels of B. cereus and S. aureus were significantly reduced in rice cakes stored for 3 days at room temperature (22 degrees C). The order of antimicrobial activities against B. cereus in rice cake was 1% rosemary < 1% green tea < 3% rosemary = 3% green tea. These results indicate that the use of natural plant materials such as green tea and rosemary could improve the microbial quality of foods in addition to their functional properties.
19519046	We investigate the effects of disorder within the T = 0 Brinkman-Rice scenario for the Mott metal-insulator transition in two dimensions. For sufficiently weak disorder the transition retains the Mott character, as signaled by the vanishing of the local quasiparticle weights Z_{i} and strong screening of the renormalized site energies at criticality. In contrast to the behavior in high dimensions, here the local spatial fluctuations of quasiparticle parameters are strongly enhanced in the critical regime, with a distribution function P(Z) approximately Z;{alpha-1} and alpha --> 0 at the transition. This behavior indicates a robust emergence of an electronic Griffiths phase preceding the metal-insulator transition, in a fashion surprisingly reminiscent of the "infinite randomness fixed point" scenario for disordered quantum magnets.
19519530	To investigate the function of plant plasma membrane, proteins of rice plasma membrane were analyzed and the proteins changed by cold stress were identified. Plasma membrane proteins were purified with an aqueous two-phase partitioning method from root of rice seedlings, and activity of specific H(+)-ATPase localized in plasma membranes was measured. The plasma membrane proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE or 2D-PAGE, and analyzed with nano LC-MS/MS. The number of transmembrane helices was predicted from the amino acid sequence of annotated proteins. Functional categorization revealed that the most of proteins were associated with energy production, signal transduction, protein synthesis, cell growth/division and defense. In addition, 12 cold stress responsive proteins were identified from the plasma membrane using 2D-PAGE based proteomics method. Out of them, cold shock protein-1 was significantly decreased in plasma membrane of rice under cold stress.
19519750	The only treatment for coeliac disease is lifelong adherence to a gluten-free diet. Several studies have reported nutritional deficiencies in individuals on a gluten-free diet. The present study aimed to determine whether the nutritional profile of gluten-free diet could be improved through the use of alternative grains. A retrospective review of diet history records by a celiac specialist dietitian were used to establish a 'standard' gluten-free dietary pattern. An 'alternative' gluten-free dietary pattern was developed that substituted naturally gluten-free grains or gluten-free products made from 'alternative' flours (oats, high fibre gluten-free bread and quinoa) in the standard pattern. A paired t-test was performed to identify statistical significance between the 'alternative' and standard gluten-free dietary pattern. Analysis of standard pattern indicated that 38% of meals and snacks contained no grain or starch choice. Of those meals that contained a grain or starch component, rice was the grain chosen 44% of the time. The inclusion of alternative grains or grain products provided a higher nutrient profile compared to the standard gluten-free dietary pattern (P = 0.002). Several nutrients; protein (20.6 g versus 11 g), iron (18.4 mg versus 1.4 mg), calcium (182 mg versus 0 mg) and fibre (12.7 g versus 5 g) were significantly increased by changing the grain or starch component in the dietary pattern. The B vitamin content (riboflavin, niacin and folate) was improved, although this was not statistically significant (P = 0.125). The inclusion of alternative grain-based products increased the nutrient profile of the gluten-free dietary pattern significantly.
19519802	Although homologous recombination-promoted knock-in targeting to monitor the expression of a gene by fusing a reporter gene with its promoter is routine practice in mice, gene targeting to modify endogenous genes in flowering plants remains in its infancy. In the knock-in targeting, the junction sequence between a reporter gene and an endogenous target promoter can be designed properly, and transgenic plants carrying an identical and desired knock-in allele can be repeatedly obtained. By employing a reproducible gene-targeting procedure with positive-negative selection in rice, we were able to obtain fertile transgenic knock-in plants with the promoterless GUS reporter gene encoding beta-glucuronidase fused with the endogenous promoter of MET1a, one of two rice MET1 genes encoding a maintenance DNA methyltransferase. All of the primary (T(0)) transgenic knock-in plants obtained were found to carry only one copy of GUS, with the anticipated structure in the heterozygous condition, and no ectopic events associated with gene targeting could be detected. We showed the reproducible, dosage-dependent and spatiotemporal expression of GUS in the selfed progenies of independently isolated knock-in targeted plants. The results in knock-in targeted plants contrast sharply with the results in transgenic plants with the MET1a promoter-fused GUS reporter gene integrated randomly in the genome: clear interindividual variation of GUS expression was observed among independently obtained plants bearing the randomly integrated transgenes. As our homologous recombination-mediated gene-targeting strategy with positive-negative selection is, in principle, applicable to modify any endogenous gene, knock-in targeting would facilitate basic and applied plant research.
19519906	Global climate warming can affect functioning of crops and plants in the natural environment. In order to study the effects of global warming, a method for applying a controlled heating treatment to plant canopies in the open field or in the greenhouse is needed that can accept either square wave application of elevated temperature or a complex prescribed diurnal or seasonal temperature regime. The current options are limited in their accuracy, precision, reliability, mobility or cost and scalability. The described system uses overhead infrared heaters that are relatively inexpensive and are accurate and precise in rapidly controlling the temperature. Remote computer-based data acquisition and control via the internet provides the ability to use complex temperature regimes and real-time monitoring. Due to its easy mobility, the heating system can randomly be allotted in the open field or in the greenhouse within the experimental setup. The apparatus has been successfully applied to study the response of rice to high night temperatures. Air temperatures were maintained within the set points +/- 0.5 degrees C. The incorporation of the combination of air-situated thermocouples, autotuned proportional integrative derivative temperature controllers and phase angled fired silicon controlled rectifier power controllers provides very fast proportional heating action (i.e. 9 ms time base), which avoids prolonged or intense heating of the plant material. The described infrared heating system meets the utilitarian requirements of a heating system for plant physiology studies in that the elevated temperature can be accurately, precisely, and reliably controlled with minimal perturbation of other environmental factors.
19520635	Estimating the noise parameter in magnitude magnetic resonance (MR) images is important in a wide range of applications. We propose an automatic noise estimation method that does not rely on a substantial proportion of voxels being from the background. Specifically, we model the magnitude of the observed signal as a mixture of Rice distributions with common noise parameter. The expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm is used to estimate all parameters, including the common noise parameter. The algorithm needs initializing values for which we provide some strategies that work well. The number of components in the mixture model also needs to be estimated en route to noise estimation and we provide a novel approach to doing so. Our methodology performs very well on a range of simulation experiments and physical phantom data. Finally, the methodology is demonstrated on four clinical datasets.
19521498	An important objective in genome research is to relate genome structure to gene function. Sequence comparisons among orthologous and paralogous genes and their allelic variants can reveal sequences of functional significance. Here, we describe a 379-kb region on chromosome 1 of maize that enables us to reconstruct chromosome breakage, transposition, non-homologous end-joining, and homologous recombination events. Such a high-density composition of various mechanisms in a small chromosomal interval exemplifies the evolution of gene regulation and allelic diversity in general. It also illustrates the evolutionary pace of changes in plants, where many of the above mechanisms are of somatic origin. In contrast to animals, somatic alterations can easily be transmitted through meiosis because the germline in plants is contiguous to somatic tissue, permitting the recovery of such chromosomal rearrangements. The analyzed region contains the P1-wr allele, a variant of the genetically well-defined p1 gene, which encodes a Myb-like transcriptional activator in maize. The P1-wr allele consists of eleven nearly perfect P1-wr 12-kb repeats that are arranged in a tandem head-to-tail array. Although a technical challenge to sequence such a structure by shotgun sequencing, we overcame this problem by subcloning each repeat and ordering them based on nucleotide variations. These polymorphisms were also critical for recombination and expression analysis in presence and absence of the trans-acting epigenetic factor Ufo1. Interestingly, chimeras of the p1 and p2 genes, p2/p1 and p1/p2, are framing the P1-wr cluster. Reconstruction of sequence amplification steps at the p locus showed the evolution from a single Myb-homolog to the multi-gene P1-wr cluster. It also demonstrates how non-homologous end-joining can create novel gene fusions. Comparisons to orthologous regions in sorghum and rice also indicate a greater instability of the maize genome, probably due to diploidization following allotetraploidization.
19521518	Photoperiod and temperature are two important environmental factors that influence the heading-date of rice. Although the influence of the photoperiod on heading has been extensively reported in rice, the molecular mechanism for the temperature control of heading remains unknown. This study reports an early heading mutant derived from tissue culture lines of rice and investigates the heading-date of wild type and mutant in different photoperiod and temperature treatments. The linkage analysis showed that the mutant phenotype cosegregated with the Hd1 locus. Sequencing analysis found that the mutant contained two insertions and several single-base substitutions that caused a dramatic reduction in Hd1mRNA levels compared with wild type. The expression patterns of Hd1 and Hd3a were also analyzed in different photoperiod and temperature conditions, revealing that Hd1 mRNA levels displayed similar expression patterns for different photoperiod and temperature treatments, with high expression levels at night and reduced levels in the daytime. In addition, Hd1 displayed a slightly higher expression level under long-day and low temperature conditions. Hd3a mRNA was present at a very low level under low temperature conditions regardless of the day-length. This result suggests that suppression of Hd3a expression is a principle cause of late heading under low temperature and long-day conditions.
19521793	The effect of feeding different levels of cassava foliage (Manihot esculenta, Crantz) and/or Stylosanthes guianensis foliage on the growth and digestibility was studied using twenty eight 6-month-old crossbred growing cattle (50% local Yellow cattle and 50% Sindhi) (both Bos indicus) weighing on average 114 kg at start. All animals were fed a basal diet consisting of urea treated rice straw (URTRS) fed ad libitum, 0.87 kg concentrate and 0.22 kg molasses on dry matter (DM) basis. The treatments were four supplements: soybean meal, cassava foliage, stylosanthes foliage or a mix of stylosanthes foliage and cassava foliage all giving the same nitrogen intake. The consumption of tannins and hydrogen cyanide (HCN) were significantly higher in groups fed a mixture of foliages compared with only cassava foliage, respectively. There were 30% and 19%, respectively, higher live weight gain in the group fed a mixture of foliages as compared to the groups fed only cassava or stylosanthes. The factors of low organic matter and high level of HCN in the diet when feeding only cassava foliage might explain the negative effects on intake, neutral detergent fibre digestibility and nitrogen retention, and resulted in lower growth rates.
19522564	Fatty acids and their derivatives play important signaling roles in plant defense responses. It has been shown that suppressing a gene for stearoyl acyl carrier protein fatty-acid desaturase (SACPD) enhances the resistance of Arabidopsis (SSI2) and soybean to multiple pathogens. In this study, we present functional analyses of a rice homolog of SSI2 (OsSSI2) in disease resistance of rice plants. A transposon insertion mutation (Osssi2-Tos17) and RNAi-mediated knockdown of OsSSI2 (OsSSI2-kd) reduced the oleic acid (18:1) level and increased that of stearic acid (18:0), indicating that OsSSI2 is responsible for fatty-acid desaturase activity. These plants displayed spontaneous lesion formation in leaf blades, retarded growth, slight increase in endogenous free salicylic acid (SA) levels, and SA/benzothiadiazole (BTH)-specific inducible genes, including WRKY45, a key regulator of SA/BTH-induced resistance, in rice. Moreover, the OsSSI2-kd plants showed markedly enhanced resistance to the blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea and leaf-blight bacteria Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. These results suggest that OsSSI2 is involved in the negative regulation of defense responses in rice, as are its Arabidopsis and soybean counterparts. Microarray analyses identified 406 genes that were differentially expressed (>or=2-fold) in OsSSI2-kd rice plants compared with wild-type rice and, of these, approximately 39% were BTH responsive. Taken together, our results suggest that induction of SA-responsive genes, including WRKY45, is likely responsible for enhanced disease resistance in OsSSI2-kd rice plants.
19522820	Gene expression studies are important for revealing gene functions putatively involved in biological processes. We were interested in identifying differentially expressed genes during leaf development in rice. We combined the RNA arbitrarily primed-polymerase chain reaction (RAP-PCR) and dot blot hybridization methods to screen a rice leaf primordium cDNA library. Three developmental stages during vegetative growth were examined. The cDNA clones showing different hybridization patterns were further analyzed and verified. Here we demonstrate that the combination of RAP-PCR and dot blot hybridization could provide an efficient and relatively low-cost cDNA library screening approach to discover genes not previously known to be associated with leaf development in rice. We believe that the findings described here will help to elucidate the molecular mechanism(s) underlying the developmental processes of rice leaf.
19523072	A full-length cDNA encoding a general odorant binding protein 2 (GOBP2) was cloned from the antennae of the rice striped stem borer, Chilo suppressalis (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), by the combination of reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) and rapid amplification of cDNA ends PCR (RACE-PCR). The cDNA contains a 489 bp open reading frame, which encodes a 162 amino acid protein, termed as Ch. suppressalis GOBP2 (CsupGOBP2). CsupGOBP2 is similar in the number of amino acids and protein sequence to GOBP2s in other species of Lepidoptera. RT-PCR results showed that CsupGOBP2 mRNA was highly expressed in the adult antennae of both females and males, as was CsupGOBP2 protein as revealed by Western blot analysis. CsupGOBP2 expressed in Escherichia coli was purified by affinity chromatography, refolding and gel filtration from the inclusion body. Fluorescence emission spectra and competitive binding assays by using N-phenyl-1-naphthylamine as first binding ligand and odorants as potential competitors revealed that the CsupGOBP2 protein has significant affinity to cis-11-hexadecenal (Z11-16:Ald), the main component of Ch. suppressalis pheromone and to laurinaldehyd and benzaldehyde, two general plant volatile aldehydes.
19523101	Several ethylene-response factor (ERF) transcription factors are believed to play a crucial role in the activation of plant defence responses, but little is known about the relationships between the diversity of this family and the functions of groups or individual ERFs in this process. In this study, 200 ERF genes from the unigene cotton database were identified. Conserved amino acid residues and phylogeny reconstruction using the AP2 conserved domain suggest that the classification into 10 major groups used for Arabidopsis and rice is applicable to the cotton ERF family. Based on in silico studies, we predict that group IX ERF genes in cotton are involved in jasmonate (JA), ethylene (ET) and pathogen responses. To test this hypothesis, we analysed the transcript profiles of the group IXa subfamily in the regulation of specific resistance to Xanthomonas campestris pathovar malvacearum. The expression of four members of group IXa was induced on challenge with X. campestris pv. malvacearum. Furthermore, the expression of several ERF genes of group IXa was induced synergistically by JA in combination with ET, suggesting that the encoded ERF proteins may play key roles in the integration of both signals to activate JA- and ET-dependent responses.
19523506	C3HC4-type RING finger genes comprise a large family in the plant kingdom and play important roles in various physiologic processes of plant life. In this study, we identified 29 C3HC4-type RING finger family genes in rice (Oryza sativa) by database search. Motif analysis revealed the presence of three conserved motifs with unknown functions within the predicted proteins. Promoter analysis found 196 cis-elements in the 2-kb upstream regions of these genes, including a stress-responsive element, a hormone-responsive element, and a light-responsive element. In addition, a comprehensive expression analysis of these genes has been performed using microarray data obtained from 27 tissues or organs of three rice genotypes, Minghui 63, Zhenshan 97, and Shanyou 63. Real-time PCR analysis confirmed that five C3HC4-type RING finger genes are preferentially expressed in reproductive tissues or organs such as stamen, panicle, and endosperm. Expression analysis of C3HC4-type RING finger genes under abiotic stresses suggests that twelve genes are differentially regulated by hormones or stress in rice seedlings. These results would be useful for elucidating their roles in the growth, development, and stress response of the rice plant.
19523603	The study of digestive enzymes, especially in important pests like Chilo suppressalis Walker (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), which are a key constraint on rice production in a wide area of the globe and also in Iran, could be a successful procedure in the development of a safe and useful control strategy. Glycosidase are a type of digestive enzymes which have a critical role in the final stages of carbohydrate digestion; they hydrolyze alpha-D-(1,4)-glucose linkage such as p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-glucoside in di and oligosaccharide components. Laboratory reared 4th instar larvae were randomly selected; midgut and salivary gland were removed by dissection under a stereo microscope and glucosidase activities were assayed by Ferreira and Terra's procedures. The activities of alpha- and beta-glucosidase in the midgut and salivary gland were 0.009, 0.0063, 0.005 and 0.003 micromol/min/mg protein, respectively. The optimal pH and temperature for enzyme activity were determined to be 9 and 45 degrees C for the glucosidases measured, values which are in agreement with other reports, especially in lepidopteran insects, which give values between 8-12 and 20-50 degrees C. The enzyme activity increased with the addition of NaCl, MgCl(2) and CaCl(2) and decreased due to the use of different concentrations of KCl, Urea, EDTA, SDS and Urea both in midgut and the salivary glands. Control of pests by using resistant varieties is one of the most important practices that are dependent on inhibitors in plants. Hence, characterization of digestive enzymes, especially the effect of inhibitors on enzyme activity, could be useful, on the one hand for a better understanding of enzyme roles in the nutrition physiology of insects, and on the other hand to reach safe and useful controls of insect pests.
19525202	Cyclophilins, which possess peptidyl-prolyl isomerase activity, are cellular targets of immunosuppressant drugs and involved in a wide variety of functions. While the Arabidopsis thaliana genome contains the largest number of cyclophilins, the number of plant cyclophilins available in databases is small compared to that of other organisms. It implies that many cyclophilins are yet to be identified in plants. In order to identify cyclophilin candidates from available plant sequence data, we examined alignment-free methods based on Partial Least Squares (PLS). PLS classifier performed better than profile hidden Markov models and PSI-BLAST in identifying cyclophilins from the Arabidopsis and rice genomes.
19525275	Pseudomonas aeruginosa possesses three quorum-sensing (QS) systems which are key in the expression of a large number of genes, including many virulence factors. Most studies of QS in P. aeruginosa have been performed in clinical isolates and have therefore focused on its role in pathogenicity. P. aeruginosa, however, is regarded as a ubiquitous organism capable of colonizing many different environments and also of establishing beneficial associations with plants. In this study we examined the role of the two N-acyl homoserine lactone systems known as RhlI/R and LasI/R in the environmental rice rhizosphere isolate P. aeruginosa PUPa3. Both the Rhl and Las systems are involved in the regulation of plant growth-promoting traits. The environmental P. aeruginosa PUPa3 is pathogenic in two nonmammalian infection models, and only the double las rhl mutants are attenuated for virulence. In fact it was established that the two QS systems are not hierarchically organized and that they are both important for the colonization of the rice rhizosphere. This is an in-depth genetic and molecular study of QS in an environmental P. aeruginosa strain and highlights several differences with QS regulation in the clinical isolate PAO1.
19525415	Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial blight, a serious disease of rice (Oryza sativa). LipA is a secretory virulence factor of Xoo, implicated in degradation of rice cell walls and the concomitant elicitation of innate immune responses, such as callose deposition and programmed cell death. Here, we present the high-resolution structural characterization of LipA that reveals an all-helical ligand binding module as a distinct functional attachment to the canonical hydrolase catalytic domain. We demonstrate that the enzyme binds to a glycoside ligand through a rigid pocket comprising distinct carbohydrate-specific and acyl chain recognition sites where the catalytic triad is situated 15 A from the anchored carbohydrate. Point mutations disrupting the carbohydrate anchor site or blocking the pocket, even at a considerable distance from the enzyme active site, can abrogate in planta LipA function, exemplified by loss of both virulence and the ability to elicit host defense responses. A high conservation of the module across genus Xanthomonas emphasizes the significance of this unique plant cell wall-degrading function for this important group of plant pathogenic bacteria. A comparison with the related structural families illustrates how a typical lipase is recruited to act on plant cell walls to promote virulence, thus providing a remarkable example of the emergence of novel functions around existing scaffolds for increased proficiency of pathogenesis during pathogen-plant coevolution.
19526560	To gain a better understanding of salt stress responses in plants, we used a proteomic approach to investigate changes in rice (Oryza sativa) root plasma-membrane-associated proteins following treatment with 150 mmol/L NaCl. With or without a 48 h salt treatment, plasma membrane fractions from root tip cells of a salt-sensitive rice cultivar, Wuyunjing 8, were purified by PEG aqueous two-phase partitioning, and plasma-membrane-associated proteins were separated by IEF/SDS-PAGE using an optimized rehydration buffer. Comparative analysis of three independent biological replicates revealed that the expressions of 18 proteins changed by more than 1.5-fold in response to salt stress. Of these proteins, nine were up-regulated and nine were down-regulated. MS analysis indicated that most of these membrane-associated proteins are involved in important physiological processes such as membrane stabilization, ion homeostasis, and signal transduction. In addition, a new leucine-rich-repeat type receptor-like protein kinase, OsRPK1, was identified as a salt-responding protein. Immuno-blots indicated that OsRPK1 is also induced by cold, drought, and abscisic acid. Using immuno-histochemical techniques, we determined that the expression of OsRPK1 was localized in the plasma membrane of cortex cells in roots. The results suggest that different rice cultivars might have different salt stress response mechanisms.
19528193	Molecular breeding of crops is an efficient way to upgrade plant functions useful to mankind. A key step is forward genetics or positional cloning to identify the genes that confer useful functions. In order to accelerate the whole research process, we have developed an integrated database system powered by an intelligent data-retrieval engine termed PosMed-plus (Positional Medline for plant upgrading science), allowing us to prioritize highly promising candidate genes in a given chromosomal interval(s) of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, Oryza sativa. By inferentially integrating cross-species information resources including genomes, transcriptomes, proteomes, localizomes, phenomes and literature, the system compares a user's query, such as phenotypic or functional keywords, with the literature associated with the relevant genes located within the interval. By utilizing orthologous and paralogous correspondences, PosMed-plus efficiently integrates cross-species information to facilitate the ranking of rice candidate genes based on evidence from other model species such as Arabidopsis. PosMed-plus is a plant science version of the PosMed system widely used by mammalian researchers, and provides both a powerful integrative search function and a rich integrative display of the integrated databases. PosMed-plus is the first cross-species integrated database that inferentially prioritizes candidate genes for forward genetics approaches in plant science, and will be expanded for wider use in plant upgrading in many species.
1952839	Cefaclor is an oral cephalosporin antibiotic which has a broad antibacterial spectrum. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of food on the absorption of cefaclor and to analyze kinetically the absorption process of this drug. Cefaclor was given to eight volunteers at five test times: after overnight fasting, after two rice meals (350 and 700 cal [1 cal = 4.184 J]), and after two bread meals (500 and 1,000 cal). Urinary recoveries of cefaclor and concentrations of the drug in plasma were determined for each administration. Areas under the concentration-time curves and urinary recoveries were not affected by food intake, but the maximum concentration of drug in serum was reduced and the time to maximum concentration of drug in serum was prolonged depending on the type and the quantity of the meal. The larger the quantity of the meal, the more the maximum concentration of drug in serum and the time to maximum concentration of drug in serum were affected. The rice meals affected the absorption process of cefaclor more than the bread meals. The concentrations of cefaclor in plasma following administration after overnight fasting were well fitted to a conventional one-compartment model with a first-order absorption process, but those after the other administrations were not fitted to the model. For the pharmacokinetic analysis of those data, it was necessary to introduce a transfer process from administration site to absorption site to the conventional model. The concentrations in plasma after rice and bread meals were best fitted to the model with a zero-order transfer process than to that with a first-order process. The velocity of the transfer process depended on the type and volume of the meal.
19528529	A high-affinity K+ transporter PutHKT2;1 cDNA was isolated from the salt-tolerant plant Puccinellia tenuiflora. Expression of PutHKT2;1 was induced by both 300 mM NaCl and K+-starvation stress in roots, but only slightly regulated by those stresses in shoots. PutHKT2;1 transcript levels in 300 mM NaCl were doubled by the depletion of potassium. Yeast transformed with PutHKT2;1, like those transformed with PhaHKT2;1 from salt-tolerant reed plants (Phragmites australis), (i) were able to take up K+ in low K+ concentration medium or in the presence of NaCl, and (ii) were permeable to Na+. This suggests that PutHKT2;1 has a high affinity K+-Na+ symport function in yeast. Arabidopsis over-expressing PutHKT2;1 showed increased sensitivities to Na+, K+, and Li+, while Arabidopsis over-expressing OsHKT2;1 from rice (Oryza sativa) showed increased sensitivity only to Na+. In contrast to OsHKT2;1, which functions in Na+-uptake at low external K+ concentrations, PutHKT2;1 functions in Na+-uptake at higher external K+ concentrations. These results show that the modes of action of PutHKT2;1 in transgenic yeast and Arabidopsis differ from the mode of action of the closely related OsHKT2;1 transporter.
19528530	Rice glutelin is synthesized as a precursor in the endosperm endoplasmic reticulum and then deposited within the protein storage vacuole protein body-II (PB-II) as an aggregate, with a high degree of polymerized higher-order structure comprising mature acidic and basic subunits after post-translation processing cleavage. In order to investigate the functional role of this processing and its effect on folding assembly, wild-type GluA2 and its mutant cDNA (mGluA2), in which the conserved processing site (Asn-Gly) at the junction between the acidic and basic chains was replaced with Ala-Ala, were expressed under the control of the endosperm-specific GluB1 promoter in the mutant rice a123 line lacking glutelin GluA1, GluA2, and GluB4. The mGluA2 precursor was synthesized and stably targeted to PB-II without processing in the transgenic rice seeds like the wild-type GluA2. Notably, the saline-soluble mGluA2 precursor assembled with the other type of processed glutelin GluB as a trimer in PB-II, although such hetero-assembly with GluB was not detected in the transformant containing the processed GluA. Furthermore, the mGluA2 precursor in the glutelin fraction was deposited in PB-II by forming a quite different complex from the processed mature GluA2 products. These results indicate that post-translational processing of glutelin is not necessary for trafficking and stable accumulation in PB-II, but is required for the formation of the higher-order structure required for stacking in PB-II.
19528545
19528562	Red yeast rice is an herbal supplement that decreases low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level. To evaluate the effectiveness and tolerability of red yeast rice and therapeutic lifestyle change to treat dyslipidemia in patients who cannot tolerate statin therapy. Randomized, controlled trial. Community-based cardiology practice. 62 patients with dyslipidemia and history of discontinuation of statin therapy due to myalgias. Patients were assigned by random allocation software to receive red yeast rice, 1800 mg (31 patients), or placebo (31 patients) twice daily for 24 weeks. All patients were concomitantly enrolled in a 12-week therapeutic lifestyle change program. Primary outcome was LDL cholesterol level, measured at baseline, week 12, and week 24. Secondary outcomes included total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, triglyceride, liver enzyme, and creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) levels; weight; and Brief Pain Inventory score. In the red yeast rice group, LDL cholesterol decreased by 1.11 mmol/L (43 mg/dL) from baseline at week 12 and by 0.90 mmol/L (35 mg/dL) at week 24. In the placebo group, LDL cholesterol decreased by 0.28 mmol/L (11 mg/dL) at week 12 and by 0.39 mmol/L (15 mg/dL) at week 24. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level was significantly lower in the red yeast rice group than in the placebo group at both weeks 12 (P < 0.001) and 24 (P = 0.011). Significant treatment effects were also observed for total cholesterol level at weeks 12 (P < 0.001) and 24 (P = 0.016). Levels of HDL cholesterol, triglyceride, liver enzyme, or CPK; weight loss; and pain severity scores did not significantly differ between groups at either week 12 or week 24. The study was small, was single-site, was of short duration, and focused on laboratory measures. Red yeast rice and therapeutic lifestyle change decrease LDL cholesterol level without increasing CPK or pain levels and may be a treatment option for dyslipidemic patients who cannot tolerate statin therapy.
19529831	Many stress responsive genes have been reported with an effect on improving stress resistance in model plants under greenhouse conditions. Towards identification of genes for drought resistance breeding, seven well documented genes (CBF3, SOS2, NCED2, NPK1, LOS5, ZAT10, and NHX1) in stress resistance were selected in this study and transformed into rice cultivar Zhonghua 11 under the control of constitutive promoter Actin1 and stress-inducible promoter of a rice HVA22 homolog, and transgenic rice were tested for drought resistance under field conditions. A total of 1598 independent transgenic T0 plants were generated. The percentages of single copy and expression of the transgenes were 36.7% and 57.6%, respectively. For each gene construct, 30 T1 families with expression of transgene were selected for drought resistance testing at the reproductive stage in field, and 10 of them were tested in PVC pipes with a defined stress protocol at the same stage. Relative yield and relative spikelet fertility were used as two major criteria to evaluate drought resistance performance because significantly decreased yield was observed in the T1 generation. Transgenic families of eight constructs (HVA22P:CBF3, HVA22P:NPK1, Actin1:LOS5, HVA22P:LOS5, Actin1:ZAT10, HVA22P:ZAT10, Actin1:NHX1, and HVA22P:NHX1) showed significantly higher RY than wild-type (WT) under both drought stress field and PVC tube conditions. Transgenic families of 9 constructs (HVA22P:SOS2 and CBF3, LOS5, ZAT10, and NHX1 by both promoters) showed significantly higher relative spikelet fertility than WT in the field or PVC pipes. In the field drought resistance testing of T2 families derived from the T1 families with relatively lower yield decrease, transgenic families of seven constructs (HVA22P:CBF3, Actin1:NPK1, HVA22P:NPK1, Actin1:LOS5, HVA22P:LOS5, Actin1:ZAT10, and HVA22P:ZAT10) showed significantly higher yield per plant than WT, and families of nine constructs (Actin1:CBF3, HVA22P:CBF3, HVA22P:SOS2, HVA22P:NPK1, Actin1:LOS5, HVA22P:LOS5, Actin1:ZAT10, HVA22P:ZAT10, and Actin1:NHX1) had higher spikelet fertility than WT. In general, LOS5 and ZAT10 showed relatively better effect than the other five genes in improving drought resistance of transgenic rice under field conditions. The results and experience obtained from this study could be a useful reference for drought resistance engineering in rice.
19529930	Carotenoids such as beta-carotene, lycopene, and antheraxanthin have plenty of scientific and commercial value. The comprehensive investigation of carotenoids drives people to improve and develop all kinds of analytical techniques to approach or even achieve "versatile" analysis. The metabolic engineering efforts in plants and algae have progressed rapidly, aiming to enable the use of plants and algae as "cell factories" for producing specific or novel carotenoids, such as beta-carotene (provitamin A) in Gold rice, while the emerging technologies of metabolomics support it by providing comprehensive analysis of carotenoids biochemical characterizations. This review describes metabolomics as a high-throughput platform to study carotenoids, including the engineering methods in the plants or algae, the bioinformatics for metabolomics, and the metabolomics of carotenoids in engineered cell factory. Modern systems biology tools, together with the development of genomics and metabolomics databases, will dramatically facilitate the advancement of our knowledge in gene-to-metabolite networks in plants. Metabolomics accompanying genomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics as well as bioinformatics facilitate metabolic engineering efforts towards designing superior biocatalysts in cell factories. Ongoing advances in biological techniques coupled with crucial metabolic networks will further promote plants and algae as attractive platforms for the production of numerous high-value compounds such as carotenoids.
19530257	Gene transfer from weeds to crops could produce weedy individuals that might impact upon the evolutionary dynamics of weedy populations, the persistence of escaped genes in agroecosystems and approaches to weed management and containment of transgenic crops. The present aim was to quantify the gene flowrate from weedy red rice to cultivated rice, and evaluate the morphology, phenology and fecundity of resulting hybrids. Field experiments were conducted at Stuttgart and Rohwer, Arkansas, USA. Twelve red rice accessions and an imazethapyr-resistant rice (Imi-R; Clearfield) were used. Hybrids between Imi-R rice x red rice were 138-150 cm tall and flowered 1-5 days later than the rice parent, regardless of the red rice parent. Hybrids produced 20-50% more seed than the rice parent, but had equivalent seed production to the majority of red rice parents. Seeds of all hybrids were red, pubescent and dehisced at maturity. For the majority of hybrids, seed germination was higher than that of the red rice parent. The gene flowrate from red rice to rice was 0.01-0.2% and differed by red rice biotype. The hybrids had higher fecundity and potential competitive ability than the rice parent, and in some cases also the red rice parent. Red rice plants are vectors of gene flow back to cultivated rice and other weedy populations. The progeny of red rice hybrids from cultivated rice mother plants have higher chances of persistence than those from red rice mother plants. Gene flow mitigation strategies should consider this scenario.
1953026	Studies were performed to evaluate the toxic effects of ammonium sulphate and urea (chemical fertilizers currently applied in ricelands of Cameroon) against eggs, juveniles, and adults of two species of freshwater snails (Helisoma trivolvis and Biomphalaria havanensis). Results obtained from ammonium sulphate tests indicated 24-h LC50 values of 558 mg/L and 669 mg/L for eggs; 393 mg/L and 526 mg/L for juveniles, and 701 mg/L and 657 mg/L for adults of H. trivolvis and B. havanensis, respectively. Similar analysis with urea revealed LC50 values of 14,241 mg/L and 13,532 mg/L for eggs; 18,255 mg/L and 24,504 mg/L for juveniles and 30,060 mg/L and 26,024 mg/L for adults of H. trivolvis and B. havanensis, respectively. Following 48 h exposure, the concentrations of ammonium sulphate killing 100% of snails were 1,250 mg/L and 1,000 mg/L for the adults of H. trivolvis and of B. havanensis, respectively. Those of urea were computed to be 25,000 mg/L for H. trivolvis and 35,000 mg/L for B. havanensis. In rice culture in Cameroon, these fertilizers are applied at doses of 100 kg/ha (ammonium sulphate) and of 150 kg/ha (urea); hence, the above found concentrations lethal to snails appeared to be 10 to 13 times (ammonium sulphate) and to be 165 to 235 times (urea) higher assuming an average water depth of 10 cm in these ricefields. Therefore, the use of ammonium sulphate and urea as chemical fertilizers in ricelands of the Republic of Cameroon might adversely affect the survival of freshwater snails only in the case of spills or of stressful environmental conditions. Under normal laboratory conditions, both chemicals show a low molluscicidal activity with urea being about 25 to 35 times less potent than ammonium sulphate.
19531717	Duck meat sausages were prepared using 10% beef fat (FDS) and 10% hydrated cereal flours including rice (RDS), wheat, corn, millet, and barley to replace fat. Control duck sausages (DS) were also prepared only with duck meat and duck meat plus 10% beef fat. Results showed that protein and fat contents significantly decreased and total expressible fluid reduced with the addition of cereal flours in duck sausage batters. The FDS had higher fat content and lower pH compared with others. Duck sausages with 10% supplemented wheat flour showed the lowest cooking loss among sausages and had similar redness and chroma values to FDS and DS. Texture analysis indicated that hardness of duck sausage significantly decreased when cereal flours and beef fat were added. In particular, RDS showed the lowest values for all texture measurements compared with others. Result of moisture absorption capacity suggested that the decrease in hardness in RDS was due to higher moisture retention for rice flour treatment. Sensory evaluation indicated that DS had significantly lower overall acceptability than RDS, due to its off-flavor, whereas RDS had higher overall acceptability than DS.
19534157	Arsenic contamination of rice irrigated with contaminated groundwater contributes to the additional arsenic burden of the population where rice is the staple food. In an arsenic contaminated area, an experimental field-based study done on nine fields elucidated significant positive correlation between arsenic in irrigation water and soil, irrigation water and rice, and also soil and rice both for Boro (groundwater) and Aman (rainwater) rice. Speciation studies showed that for both Boro (cooked) and Aman (raw) rice from contaminated area, 90% of total recovered arsenic was inorganic. In arsenic contaminated, uncontaminated villages, and Kolkata city, daily quantities of arsenic ingested by adult population from cooked rice diet are equivalent to 6.5, 1.8, and 2.3 L respectively, of drinking water containing WHO guideline value. In contaminated area, daily intake only from cooked Boro rice for 34.6% of the samples exceeded the WHO recommended MTDI value (2 microg In-As day(-1) kg(-1) body wt), whereas daily intake from Aman rice was below MTDI value as was rice from uncontaminated areas and Kolkata city. Our study indicated that employing traditional rice cooking method as followed in Bengal delta and using water having arsenic <3 microg L(-1) for cooking, actual exposure to arsenic from rice would be much less.
19534757	Genome-wide duplication is ubiquitous during diversification of the angiosperms, and gene duplication is one of the most important mechanisms for evolutionary novelties. As an indicator of functional evolution, the divergence of expression patterns following duplication events has drawn great attention in recent years. Using large-scale whole-genome microarray data, we systematically analyzed expression divergence patterns of rice genes from block, tandem and dispersed duplications. We found a significant difference in expression divergence patterns for the three types of duplicated gene pairs. Expression correlation is significantly higher for gene pairs from block and tandem duplications than those from dispersed duplications. Furthermore, a significant correlation was observed between the expression divergence and the synonymous substitution rate which is an approximate proxy of divergence time. Thus, both duplication types and divergence time influence the difference in expression divergence. Using a linear model, we investigated the influence of these two variables and found that the difference in expression divergence between block and dispersed duplicates is attributed largely to their different divergence time. In addition, the difference in expression divergence between tandem and the other two types of duplicates is attributed to both divergence time and duplication type. Consistent with previous studies on Arabidopsis, our results revealed a significant difference in expression divergence between the types of duplicated genes and a significant correlation between expression divergence and synonymous substitution rate. We found that the attribution of duplication mode to the expression divergence implies a different evolutionary course of duplicated genes.
19534823	Wheat is an allopolyploid plant that harbors a huge, complex genome. Therefore, accumulation of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) for wheat is becoming particularly important for functional genomics and molecular breeding. We prepared a comprehensive collection of ESTs from the various tissues that develop during the wheat life cycle and from tissues subjected to stress. We also examined their expression profiles in silico. As full-length cDNAs are indispensable to certify the collected ESTs and annotate the genes in the wheat genome, we performed a systematic survey and sequencing of the full-length cDNA clones. This sequence information is a valuable genetic resource for functional genomics and will enable carrying out comparative genomics in cereals. As part of the functional genomics and development of genomic wheat resources, we have generated a collection of full-length cDNAs from common wheat. By grouping the ESTs of recombinant clones randomly selected from the full-length cDNA library, we were able to sequence 6,162 independent clones with high accuracy. About 10% of the clones were wheat-unique genes, without any counterparts within the DNA database. Wheat clones that showed high homology to those of rice were selected in order to investigate their expression patterns in various tissues throughout the wheat life cycle and in response to abiotic-stress treatments. To assess the variability of genes that have evolved differently in wheat and rice, we calculated the substitution rate (Ka/Ks) of the counterparts in wheat and rice. Genes that were preferentially expressed in certain tissues or treatments had higher Ka/Ks values than those in other tissues and treatments, which suggests that the genes with the higher variability expressed in these tissues is under adaptive selection. We have generated a high-quality full-length cDNA resource for common wheat, which is essential for continuation of the ongoing curation and annotation of the wheat genome. The data for each clone's expression in various tissues and stress treatments and its variability in wheat and rice as a result of their diversification are valuable tools for functional genomics in wheat and for comparative genomics in cereals.
19534828	Rice transcription regulator OsWRKY13 influences the functioning of more than 500 genes in multiple signalling pathways, with roles in disease resistance, redox homeostasis, abiotic stress responses, and development. To determine the putative transcriptional regulation mechanism of OsWRKY13, the putative cis-acting elements of OsWRKY13-influenced genes were analyzed using the whole genome expression profiling of OsWRKY13-activated plants generated with the Affymetrix GeneChip Rice Genome Array. At least 39 transcription factor genes were influenced by OsWRKY13, and 30 of them were downregulated. The promoters of OsWRKY13-upregulated genes were overrepresented with W-boxes for WRKY protein binding, whereas the promoters of OsWRKY13-downregulated genes were enriched with cis-elements putatively for binding of MYB and AP2/EREBP types of transcription factors. Consistent with the distinctive distribution of these cis-elements in up- and downregulated genes, nine WRKY genes were influenced by OsWRKY13 and the promoters of five of them were bound by OsWRKY13 in vitro; all seven differentially expressed AP2/EREBP genes and six of the seven differentially expressed MYB genes were suppressed by in OsWRKY13-activated plants. A subset of OsWRKY13-influenced WRKY genes were involved in host-pathogen interactions. These results suggest that OsWRKY13-mediated signalling pathways are partitioned by different transcription factors. WRKY proteins may play important roles in the monitoring of OsWRKY13-upregulated genes and genes involved in pathogen-induced defence responses, whereas MYB and AP2/EREBP proteins may contribute most to the control of OsWRKY13-downregulated genes.
19535140	Nine groups of food items (freshwater fish, marine fish, pork, chicken, chicken eggs, leafy, non-leafy vegetables, rice and flour) and three types of human samples (human milk, maternal serum and cord serum) were collected for the analysis of PCDD/Fs. Results of chemical analysis revealed PCDD/Fs concentrations (pg g(-1) fat) in the following ascending order: pork (0.289 pg g(-1) fat), grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idellus) (freshwater fish) (0.407), golden thread (Nemipterus virgatus) (marine fish) (0.511), chicken (0.529), mandarin fish (Siniperca kneri) (marine fish) (0.535), chicken egg (0.552), and snubnose pompano (Trachinotus blochii) (marine fish) (1.219). The results of micro-EROD assay showed relatively higher PCDD/Fs levels in fish (2.65 pg g(-1) fat) when compared with pork (0.47), eggs (0.33), chicken (0.13), flour (0.07), vegetables (0.05 pg g(-1) wet wt) and rice (0.05). The estimated average daily intake of PCDD/Fs of 3.51 pg EROD-TEQ/kg bw/day was within the range of WHO Tolerable Daily Intake (1-4 pg WHO-TEQ/kg bw/day) and was higher than the Provisional Tolerable Daily Intake (PMTL) (70 pg for dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs) recommended by the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) [Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA), Summary and conclusions of the fifty-seventh meeting, JECFA, 2001.]. Nevertheless, the current findings were significantly lower than the TDI (14 pg WHO-TEQ/kg/bw/day) recommended by the Scientific Committee on Food of the Europe Commission [European Scientific Committee on Food (EU SCF), Opinions on the SCF on the risk assessment of dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs in food, 2000.]. However, it should be noted that micro-EROD assay overestimates the PCDD/Fs levels by 2 to 7 folds which may also amplify the PCDD/Fs levels accordingly. Although the levels of PCDD/Fs obtained from micro-EROD assay were much higher than those obtained by chemical analysis by 2 to 7 folds, it provides a cost-effective and rapid screening of dioxin levels in food and human samples.
19535441	Of the five herpes simplex virus type 1 immediate early (IE) proteins, the least is known about the function of ICP22 during productive infection and latency. Research characterizing the physical and functional properties of the protein has been limited because ICP22 has proven to be difficult to express in transient assays. In addition, genetic analysis of ICP22 has been complicated by the fact that the C terminus of ICP22 is expressed as a discrete protein product. In order to characterize properties of mutant and wild-type ICP22, we developed a transient expression system. We found that ICP22 can be expressed at detectable levels when placed under the control of the cytomegalovirus IE promoter, confirming recent observations by K. A. Fraser and S. A. Rice (J. Virol. 81:5091-5101, 2007). We extended this analysis to show that ICP22 can also be expressed from its own promoter in the presence of other viral factors, either by coexpression with ICP0 or by infection with an ICP22 null virus. Notably, infection of cells transfected with an ICP22 expression vector yielded ICP22 protein that was modified in a manner similar to that of ICP22 protein detected in wild-type-infected cells. We go on to demonstrate that the failure of ICP22 protein to be expressed in transiently transfected cells was not due to inactivity of the ICP22 promoter, but rather to the ability of ICP22 to inhibit expression of reporter gene activity, including its own, in transient assays. Of special note was the observation that expression of ICP22 was sufficient to prevent transactivation of reporter genes by ICP0. Finally, transient expression of ICP22 was sufficient to complement replication of an ICP22 null virus, demonstrating that this system can be used to study functional properties of ICP22. Collectively, this transient expression system facilitates tests of the physical and functional properties of ICP22 and ICP22 mutants prior to introduction of mutant genes into the viral genome.
19535473	In each completely sequenced genome, 30% to 50% of genes are annotated as uncharacterized hypothetical genes. In the rice (Oryza sativa) genome, 10,918 hypothetical genes were annotated in the latest version (release 6) of the Michigan State University rice genome annotation. We have implemented an integrative approach to analyze their duplication/expansion and function. The analyses show that tandem/segmental duplication and transposition/retrotransposition have significantly contributed to the expansion of hypothetical genes despite their different contribution rates. A total of 3,769 hypothetical genes have been detected from retrogene, tandem, segmental, Pack-MULE, or long terminated direct repeat-related duplication/expansion. The nonsynonymous substitutions per site and synonymous substitutions per site analyses showed that 21.65% of them were still functional, accounting for 7.47% of total hypothetical genes. Global expression analyses have identified 1,672 expressed hypothetical genes. Among them, 415 genes might function in a developmental stage-specific manner. Antisense strand expression and small RNA analyses have demonstrated that a high percentage of these hypothetical genes might play important roles in negatively regulating gene expression. Homologous searches against Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and indica rice genomes suggest that most of the hypothetical genes could be annotated from recently evolved genomic sequences. These data advance the understanding of rice hypothetical genes as being involved in lineage-specific expansion and that they function in a specific developmental stage. Our analyses also provide a valuable means to facilitate the characterization and functional annotation of hypothetical genes in other organisms.
19536282	The highland forests of Madagascar are home to some of the world's most unique and diverse flora and fauna and to some of its poorest people. This juxtaposition of poverty and biodiversity is continually reinforced by rapid population growth, which results in increasing pressure on the remaining forest habitat in the highland region, and the biodiversity therein. Here we derive a mathematical expression for the subsistence of households to assess the role of markets and household demography on deforestation near Ranomafana National Park. In villages closest to urban rice markets, households were likely to clear less land than our model predicted, presumably because they were purchasing food at market. This effect was offset by the large number of migrant households who cleared significantly more land between 1989-2003 than did residents throughout the region. Deforestation by migrant households typically occurred after a mean time lag of 9 years. Analyses suggest that while local conservation efforts in Madagascar have been successful at reducing the footprint of individual households, large-scale conservation must rely on policies that can reduce the establishment of new households in remaining forested areas.
1953653	1. 1-Fluoro-D-glucopyranosyl fluoride undergoes pH-independent loss of F- ion at a rate of 1 x 10(-8) s-1 at 50.0 degrees C, some 10(3)-fold slower than alpha-D-glucopyranosyl fluoride and 4 x 10(4)-fold slower than beta-D-glucopyranosyl fluoride. 2. The (inverting) amyloglucosidase II of Aspergillus niger hydrolyses the difluoride according to Michaelis-Menten kinetics (Km 34 mM and kcat. 0.27 s-1), by apparently the same (simple) mechanism by which it hydrolyses alpha-D-glucopyranosyl fluoride (Km 38 mM and kcat. 730 s-1), rather than by the Hehre resynthesis-hydrolysis mechanism used to transform beta-D-glucopyranosyl fluoride. 3. The difluoride is also a substrate for the (inverting) trehalase of pig kidney [Km 17.3 mM and Vmax. 6.2 x 10(-4) relative to alpha-D-glucopyranosyl fluoride (Km 38 mM]). 4. The quantitatively similar effect of fluorine substitution on the one-step enzymic reactions and on the non-enzymic reactions suggests that they go through similar (oxocarbonium-ion-like) transition states. 5. The difluoride is a substrate for the (retaining) beta-glucosidases from Aspergillus wentii (A3 enzyme) and sweet-almond meal (B isoenzyme) and for the retaining alpha-glucosidase from rice: comparison with the appropriate monofluoride reveals a variable rate-retarding effect of the second fluorine atom on kcat./Km that correlates with other measures of oxocarbonium ion character in the transition state. 6. The difluoride is a substrate for the (retaining) alpha-glucosidase from yeast, but also gives an insidious mimicry of active-site-directed irreversible inhibition, which we tentatively attribute either to formation of the non-covalent complex or to the fluoroglucosyl-enzyme increasing the well-known tendency of this enzyme to come out of solution by adsorption on the walls of the vessel.
19537789	Quinclorac (3,7-dichloro-8-quinolinecarboxylic acid) is a herbicide commonly used in rice, and its drift has been suspected of causing injury to off-target tomato fields throughout Arkansas. Studies were conducted to evaluate the effects of single and multiple simulated quinclorac drift applications on tomato plant growth and development. Residues extracted from tomato plants treated with 0.42 g of ai ha(-1) were below the detection limit of liquid chromatography-double mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. Quinclorac residue levels and half-lives in tomato tissue increased as the application rate and number of applications increased. From 3 to 72 h after (14)C-quinclorac treatment of plants, most of the absorbed (14)C was retained in the treated leaf, and translocations of (14)C out of the treated leaf of vegetative and flowering tomato plant tissues were similar. Of the (14)C that translocated out of the treated leaf, the greatest movement was acropetally. The flower cluster contained 1% of the total absorbed (14)C, which suggests the potential for quinclorac translocation into tomato fruit. More extensive research will be required to understand the impact that quinclorac may have on tomato production in the area.
19538394	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) seeds can germinate under anoxia and can show coleoptile elongation. The anoxic coleoptile is usually longer than aerobic coleoptiles. Although several hypotheses have been proposed to explain the ability of rice to elongate coleoptiles under anoxia, conclusive experimental evidence explaining this physiological trait is lacking. In order to investigate whether metabolic and molecular markers correlate with anoxic coleoptile length, we screened 141 Italian and 23 Sri Lankan rice cultivars for their ability to elongate coleoptiles under anoxia. Differences in anoxic coleoptile length were used to evaluate whether a correlation exists between coleoptile length and biochemical and molecular parameters. The expression of genes coding for glycolytic and fermentative enzymes showed a very low correlation with anoxic coleoptile length. Although differences were found in carbohydrate content between the varieties tested, this parameter also does not appear to be critical in terms of coleoptile elongation. Efficient ethanol fermentation does, however, correlate well with the elongation of coleoptiles under anoxic conditions.
19538457	During the period of August 2002 and November 2004, an epidemiological investigation for Bartonella infection was conducted in small mammals in Taiwan. Using whole blood culture on chocolate agar plates, Bartonella species were successfully isolated from 41.3% of the 310 animals tested. The isolation rate of Bartonella species varied among different animal species, including 52.7% of the 169 Rattus norvegicus, 28.6% of the 126 Sucus murinus, 10% of the 10 Rattus rattus and 66.7% of the three Rattus losea. Bacteremia prevalence also varied with the origin of the animals, as 56.2% of the animals captured on farms, 38.6% of the ones captured at harbour sites and 11.8% of the animals captured from urban areas were bacteremic. Through molecular analysis of the gltA gene and 16S/23S intergenic spacer region, genetic diversity of Bartonella organisms was identified, including strains closely related to Bartonella tribocorum, Bartonella grahamii, Bartonella elizabethae, Bartonella phoceensis and Bartonella rattimassiliensis. Moreover, this is the first report of zoonotic B. elizabethae and B. grahamii identified in R. losea, the lesser rice-field rat. Various Bartonella species were identified in R. norvegicus, compared to 97.2% of Suncus murinus with unique Bartonella species. By indirect immunofluorescence antibody test, using various rodent Bartonella species as antigens, consistently low percentage of seropositivity implied that small mammals may play a role as competent reservoirs of Bartonella species in Taiwan. Future studies need to be conducted to determine whether these Bartonella species would be responsible for human cases of unknown fever or febrile illness in Taiwan, especially zoonotic B. elizabethae and B. grahamii.
19538822	Melioidosis, an infectious disease caused by the Gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei, is now recognized as an important public health problem in Southeast Asia and tropical northern Australia. Although B. pseudomallei has been detected in various water and soil samples in southeast China, the enviromental distribution of B. pseudomallei in China is unclear. In the winter months of 2007, 154 and 130 soil and water samples, respectively, were collected from several locations in Guangxi, China. The samples were screened for B. pseudomallei by bacterial culture and identification and confirmed by PCR for species-specific 16S rDNA and flagellin genes. B. pseudomallei was detected in 8.4% of the soil samples but in none of the water samples. All positive samples were confined to a single low-lying region from rice paddy fields. Counts of B. pseudomallei ranged from 23 to 521 c.f.u./g soil. This is the first geographical distribution survey of B. pseudomallei in soil in Guangxi, China, and the data are of importance for further evaluating the impact of this pathogen on melioidosis in this region.
19539246	Forty simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were used to assess the changes of diversity in 310 major Chinese rice cultivars grown during the 1950s-1990s. Of the 40 SSR loci, 39 were polymorphic. A total of 221 alleles were detected with an average of 5.7 alleles per locus (Na). The Nei's genetic diversity index (He) varied drastically among the loci (0.207 to 0.874, mean 0.625). Comparing the temporal changes in Na and He, the cultivars from the 1950s had more alleles and higher He scores than the cultivars from the other four decades. Analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) indicated that the genetic differentiation among the five decades was not significant in the whole set, but significant within indica and japonica. More changes among the decades were revealed in indica cultivars than in japonica cultivars. Some alleles had been lost in current rice cultivars in the 1990s, occurring more frequently in indica. These results suggest that more elite alien genetic resources should be explored to widen the genetic backgrounds of rice cultivars currently grown in China.
19539247	VER2 is a key gene associated with vernalization process in winter wheat. The expression of VER2 can be induced by low temperature treatment. To further understand how the expression of this gene is mediated by various external and internal factors, different lengths of the VER2 promoter region have been transcriptionally fused with a reporter gene, green fluorescence protein (GFP), and transformed into the model plant, rice (Oryza sativa L.). Using confocal and Western blot analyses, we determined several possible response elements in the promoter region, which could sense ABA, JA, and other environmental cues.
19539489	Binding of heat shock factors (HSFs) with heat shock element sequence is critical for the transcriptional induction of heat shock genes. Rice genome sequence shows 26 OsHsf genes out of which 25 possess various important domains noted in HSFs i.e. DNA binding domain (DBD), oligomerization domain (OD), nuclear localization signal (NLS), nuclear export signal (NES) and AHA type activation domain. OsHsf entry LOC_Os06g226100 has the oligomerization domain but lacks the above other domains. Also, there are no ESTs or full-length cDNA noted for this entry in database. Expression profiling showed that 22 OsHsf genes are induced by high temperature. Induction of 10 and 14 OsHsf genes was also noted against low temperature stress and oxidative stress, respectively. All OsHsf genes induced by oxidative stress were also induced by high temperature. On the other hand, induction of 6 and 1 OsHsf genes was noted to be exclusive to high and low temperature stresses, respectively. Seven OsHsf genes showed induced expression in response to all the three stresses examined. While in silico promoter analysis showed that OsHsf genes contain upstream regulatory elements corresponding to different abiotic stresses, there was lack of correlation noted between the in silico profiling of the elements and their corresponding transcript expression patterns. Apart from stress inducibility, EST database suggests that various OsHsf genes are developmentally regulated in diverse tissue types.
1953974	We tested the clinical efficacy of a rice-powder gruel (RPG) as an oral rehydration solution in a randomized clinical trial, comparing it with oral rehydration salts (ORS) prepared as recommended by WHO. RPG was prepared as mothers do it in a rural area, according to previous ethnographic work. RPG has sugar but no sodium or other electrolytes. Seventy patients under 5 years old with mild to moderate dehydration due to acute diarrhea were included in the trial. Ninety-two percent of children were successfully rehydrated with RPG and 91% of children were successfully rehydrated with ORS. Patients in the study group required less time to rehydrate and presented a reduction in fecal output as compared with the control group. We propose that the rice-powder gruel should find its place as a first line of treatment at the home level, when oral rehydration salts are not available, to prevent dehydration in the child affected with acute diarrhea, and that its use should be closely linked to no suspension or rapid reintroduction of oral feeding to provide an external source of sodium and other nutrients.
19540109	A white rot fungus, identified as Trametes hirsuta based on morphological and phylogenetic analysis, was found to contain efficient cellulose degrading enzymes. The strain showed maximum endoglucanase (EG), cellobiohydrolase (CBH) and beta-glucosidase (BGL) activities of 55, 0.28 and 5.0 U/mg-protein, respectively. Rice straw was found to be a potentially good substrate for growth of T. hirsuta for cellulase production. Statistical experimental design was used to optimize hydrolysis parameters such as pH, temperature, and concentrations of substrates and enzymes to achieve the highest saccharification yield. Enzyme concentration was identified as the limiting factor for saccharification of rice straw. A maximum saccharification rate of 88% was obtained at an enzyme concentration of 37.5 FPU/g-substrate after optimization of the hydrolysis parameters. The results of a confirmation experiment under the optimum conditions agreed well with model predictions. T. hirsuta may be a good choice for the production of reducing sugars from cellulosic biomass.
19540650	The tsunami of 26 December 2004 struck the Nagapattinam District, Tamil Nadu, India. Sea water inundation from the tsunami caused salinization problems for soil and groundwater in coastal areas of the district, and also induced salt injuries in crops. To document the recovery of the agricultural environment from the tsunami, we conducted observations of the soil, groundwater, and vegetation. Soil electrical conductivity increased sharply after the tsunami, but returned to pre-tsunami levels the following year. Groundwater salinity returned to pre-tsunami levels by 2006. These rapid rates of recovery were due to the monsoon rainfall leaching salt from the highly permeable soils in the area. MODIS NDVI values measured before and after the tsunami showed that vegetation damaged by the tsunami recovered to its pre-tsunami state by the next rice cropping season, called samba, which starts from August to February. From these results, we conclude that the agricultural environment of the district has now fully recovered from the tsunami. Based on the results, we have also identified important management implications for soil, groundwater, and vegetation as follows: 1) due to the heavy monsoon rainfall and the high permeability of soils in this region, anthropogenic inputs like fertilizers should be applied carefully to minimize pollution, and the use of green manure is recommended; 2) areas that were contaminated by sea water extended up to 1000 m from the sea shore and over pumping of groundwater should be carefully avoided to prevent inducing sea water intrusion; and 3) data from a moderate resolution sensor of 250 m, such as MODIS, can be applied to impact assessment in widespread paddy field areas like the Nagapattinam District.
19541345	Root uptake and subsequent translocation of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) in 12 agricultural crops were comparatively investigated. All crop plants were exposed hydroponically to a mixture of three kinds of dioxin congeners over 4d. The root concentration factor (RCF) of dioxin showed a logarithmic correlation with extractable lipid content in plant root. On the assumption that the dioxin escaping via gas phase from nutrient solution in the closed container can evenly diffuse in the air and equally absorb onto the shoot tissues of the dioxin-exposed plant and their nearby blank control plant, the amount of translocated dioxin was estimated by subtracting dioxin content in the shoot tissues of the blank control plant from that of the dioxin-exposed plant, and then the transpiration stream concentration factor (TSCF) of dioxin was calculated. The TSCF values of PCDD/Fs largely varied according to the plant species, and the TSCF values of 2,4,8-TrCDF were a little higher than those for 1,3,6,8-TeCDD expect for zucchini. For 1,3,6,8-TeCDD, zucchini had the highest TSCF value of 0.0089, followed by pumpkin (0.0064) towel gourd (0.0027), and cucumber (0.0010), verifying plants of the genus Cucurbita have the higher abilities of dioxin translocation. The TSCF values of 1,3,6,8-TeCDD for wheat and sorghum were 0.0013 and 0.0012, respectively. For maize, soybean, rice, Chinese cabbage, tomato and garland chrysanthemum, translocation was an insignificant mechanism of dioxin contamination in shoot tissues.
19541479	This study compared the effects of different bedding depths on the chemical and microbiological characteristics of the bedding material used to raise pigs during growing and finishing. The experiment was conducted in two pens housing 5 pigs from 60 to 145 days of age, with rice husk beddings 0.50 or 0.25 m deep. Four lots of pigs (replicates) were raised over time in each bedding depth: each bedding was used by two consecutive lots. Bedding samples were collected quarterly to determine the most probable number (MPN) of thermophilic and mesophilic bacteria, fungi and actinomycetes. Contents of N, P, K, C, organic, mineral and dry matter, C:N ratio and pH were also determined. The MPN of thermophilic bacteria was higher for the 0.50 m than for the 0.25 m bedding (p<0.05). The compost of 0.25 m deep bedding had a higher N, P and K content than that from the 0.50 m bedding (p<0.05). Thus, the use of the 0.25 m deep bedding would be recommended due to its greater agronomical value in comparison with the deeper bedding.
19541604	Epigenetic mutations confer heritable changes in gene expression that are not due to changes in the underlying sequence of the DNA. We identified a spontaneous rice mutant, Epi-d1, that shows a metastable dwarf phenotype. The phenotype is mitotically and meiotically inheritable and corresponds to the metastable epigenetic silencing of the DWARF1 (D1) gene. The silenced state is correlated with repressive histone and DNA methylation marks in the D1 promoter region but is not associated with DNA sequence alterations. Compared with other known epigenetic silenced loci in plants such as paramutable maize alleles and silent Arabidopsis genes, the Epi-d1 silencing phenomenon shows a high level of bidirectional metastable mutability. Epigenetic alleles such as Epi-d1 could thus provide for rapid adaptation under selective conditions.
19541913	Automated evidence-based gene building is a rapid and cost-effective way to provide reliable gene annotations on newly sequenced genomes. One of the limitations of evidence-based gene builders, however, is their requirement for transcriptional evidence-known proteins, full-length cDNAs, or expressed sequence tags (ESTs)-in the species of interest. This limitation is of particular concern for plant genomes, where the rate of genome sequencing is greatly outpacing the rate of EST- and cDNA-sequencing projects. To overcome this limitation, we have developed an evidence-based gene build system (the Gramene pipeline) that can use transcriptional evidence across related species. The Gramene pipeline uses the Ensembl computing infrastructure with a novel data processing scheme. Using the previously annotated plant genomes, the dicot Arabidopsis thaliana and the monocot Oryza sativa, we show that the cross-species ESTs from within monocot or dicot class are a valuable source of evidence for gene predictions. We also find that, using only EST and cross-species evidence, the Gramene pipeline can generate a plant gene set that is comparable in quality to the human genes based on known proteins and full-length cDNAs. We compare the Gramene pipeline to several widely used ab initio gene prediction programs in rice; this comparison shows the pipeline performs favorably at both the gene and exon levels with cross-species gene products only. We discuss the results of testing the pipeline on a 22-Mb region of the newly sequenced maize genome and discuss potential application of the pipeline to other genomes.
19542179	Recent studies using highly branched mutants of pea, Arabidopsis and rice have demonstrated that strigolactones, a group of terpenoid lactones, act as a new hormone class, or its biosynthetic precursors, in inhibiting shoot branching. Here, we provide evidence that DWARF14 (D14) inhibits rice tillering and may act as a new compo-nent of the strigolactone-dependent branching inhibition pathway. The d14 mutant exhibits increased shoot branch-ing with reduced plant height like the previously characterized strigolactone-deficient and -insensitive mutants d10 and d3, respectively. The d10-1 d14-1 double mutant is phenotypically indistinguishable from the d10-1 and d14-1 single mutants, consistent with the idea that D10 and D14 function in the same pathway. However, unlike with d10, the d14 branching phenotype could not be rescued by exogenous strigolactones. In addition, the d14 mutant contained a higher level of 2'-epi-5-deoxystrigol than the wild type. Positional cloning revealed that D14 encodes a protein of the alpha/beta-fold hydrolase superfamily, some members of which play a role in metabolism or signaling of plant hormones. We propose that D14 functions downstream of strigolactone synthesis, as a component of hormone signaling or as an enzyme that participates in the conversion of strigolactones to the bioactive form.
19542298	Pentavalent methylated arsenic (As) species such as monomethylarsonic acid [MMA(V)] and dimethylarsinic acid [DMA(V)] are used as herbicides or pesticides, and can also be synthesized by soil microorganisms or algae through As methylation. The mechanism of MMA(V) and DMA(V) uptake remains unknown. Recent studies have shown that arsenite is taken up by rice (Oryza sativa) roots through two silicon transporters, Lsi1 (the aquaporin NIP2;1) and Lsi2 (an efflux carrier). Here we investigated whether these two transporters also mediate the uptake of MMA(V) and DMA(V). MMA(V) was partly reduced to trivalent MMA(III) in rice roots, but only MMA(V) was translocated to shoots. DMA(V) was stable in plants. The rice lsi1 mutant lost about 80% and 50% of the uptake capacity for MMA(V) and DMA(V), respectively, compared with the wild-type rice, whereas Lsi2 mutation had little effect. The short-term uptake kinetics of MMA(V) can be described by a Michaelis-Menten plus linear model, with the wild type having 3.5-fold higher V(max) than the lsi1 mutant. The uptake kinetics of DMA(V) were linear with the slope being 2.8-fold higher in the wild type than the lsi1 mutant. Heterologous expression of Lsi1 in Xenopus laevis oocytes significantly increased the uptake of MMA(V) but not DMA(V), possibly because of a very limited uptake of the latter. Uptake of MMA(V) and DMA(V) by wild-type rice was increased as the pH of the medium decreased, consistent with an increasing proportion of the undissociated species. The results demonstrate that Lsi1 mediates the uptake of undissociated methylated As in rice roots.
19543273	Plants show distinct morphologies in different light conditions through a process called photomorphogenesis. A predominant feature of photomorphogenesis is the reduced growth of seedlings under light conditions compared with darkness. For this adaptive event, the most well-known molecular mechanism involves photoreceptor-mediated inhibition of cell elongation. However, it is not known whether additional pathways exist. Here, we describe a newly discovered pathway of light-modulated plant growth mediated by the halotolerance protein HAL3, a flavin mononucleotide (FMN)-binding protein involved in cell division. We found that light, especially blue light, suppresses growth of rice seedlings by reducing the activity of Oryza sativa (Os) HAL3. Both in vitro and in vivo studies showed that OsHAL3 is structurally inactivated by light through photo-oxidation and by direct interaction with photons. In addition, the transcriptional expression of OsHAL3 is synergistically regulated by different light conditions. Further investigation suggested that OsHAL3 promotes cell division by recruiting a ubiquitin system, rather than by its 4'-phosphopantothenoylcysteine (PPC) decarboxylase activity. Our results uncover a new mechanism for light-regulated plant growth, namely, light not only inhibits cell elongation but also suppresses cell division through HAL3 and E3 ubiquitin ligase. This study thus brings new insights into our understanding of plant photomorphogenesis.
19543880	ESTs-derived markers are useful for comparative genomic analysis and can also serve as phenotype-linked functional markers. Here, we report the development of EST-derived 2RL-specific markers and the evaluation of the possibility of functional assessment of markers tagging 2RL, which carries Hessian fly resistance genes (loci). To identify transcripts specific to 2RL, unigene sequences in combination with wheat progenitor genomes were used. Total 275 contigs mapped to the long arms of homoeologous group 2 chromosomes were downloaded. To obtain a cluster corresponding to each of the wheat 275 contigs, unigene sequences of wheat, rice, barley, and rye were pooled for cross-species clusters. Out of 275 clusters examined, it was possible to design 112 cross-species primer pairs for genome-specific amplifications. Out of 112 cross-species primer pairs, 45 primer pairs (40%) produced amplicons from at least one species (three wheat progenitors or rye). Among the 45 contigs, 73% were associated with one of known functions and 82% of the contigs associated with known functions were also associated with one of the GO categories. On the basis of the oligonucleotide sequence alignment of each of 45 genome-specific amplifications, 21 amplifications (47%) were suitable for designing RR genome-specific primers, which are specific to translocated rye chromatin 2RL. Six primer pairs (13%) successfully produced amplicons in the 2BS.2RL translocation lines and not in the non-2RLs. Functional assessment of one of the 2RL-specific markers, NSFT03P2_Contig4445, was performed on Hessian fly infested NILs. Under Hessian fly infestation, significantly high expression of a gene tagged by a 2RL-specific marker (NSFT03P2_Contig4445) was observed 1 day after infestation. EST-derived 2RL-specific marker development from this study provides a basis for the development of ESTs-derived markers for detecting wheat-rye translocations. In addition, these markers could be employed in elucidating functional analysis of genes on 2RL.
19544887	Rice represents a major route of As exposure in populations that depend on a rice diet. Practical measures are needed to mitigate the problem of excessive As accumulation in paddy rice. Two potential mitigation methods, management of the water regime and Si fertilization, were investigated under greenhouse conditions. Growing rice aerobically during the entire rice growth duration resulted in the leastAs accumulation. Maintaining aerobic conditions during either vegetative or reproductive stage of rice growth also decreased As accumulation in rice straw and grain significantly compared with rice grown under flooded conditions. The effect of water management regimes was consistent with the observed effect of flooding-induced arsenite mobilization in the soil solution. Aerobic treatments increased the percentage of inorganic As in grain, but the concentrations of inorganic As remained lower than in the flooded rice. Silicon fertilization decreased the total As concentration in straw and grain by 78 and 16%, respectively, even though Si addition increased As concentration in the soil solution. Silicon also significantly influenced As speciation in rice grain and husk by enhancing methylation. Silicon decreased the inorganic As concentration in grain by 59% while increasing the concentration of dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) by 33%. There were also significant differences between two rice genotypes in grain As speciation. This study demonstrated that water management Si fertilization, and selection of rice cultivars are effective measures that can be used to reduce As accumulation in rice.
19544917
19544987	The models on direct N2O emissions from rice paddies under different water regimes developed by the authors were validated against field measurements in China reported in 2005-2007 and in other regions. In flooding rice paddies (F), N2O emission predicted by the model was consistent with previous reports in other regions. Under the water regime of flooding-midseason drainage-reflooding (F-D-F), the model developed in this study was comparable to that established by using worldwide database. The models also well fitted N2O emissions from rice paddies under the water regime of flooding-midseason drainage-reflooding-moisture but without waterlogging (F-D-F-M) in China. Consistency of rice production data derived from the database of this study with those reported in previous studies suggests that the model input data of rice production had high reliability. The input data showed that water management and nitrogen input regimes have greatly changed in rice paddies since the 1950s. During the 1950s-1970s, about 20%-25% of the rice paddy was continuous water logging, and 75%-80% under the water regime of F-D-F. Since the 1980s, about 12%-16%, 77% and 7%-12% of paddy fields were under the water regimes of F, F-D-F and F-D-F-M, respectively. Total N input during the rice growing season averaged 87.49 kg x hm(-2) in the 1950s and 224.64 kg x hm(-2) in the 1990s. Chemical N input during the rice growing season has increased from 37.4 kg x hm(-2) in the 1950s to 198.8 kg x hm(-2) in the 1990s, accounting for 43% and 88% of the seasonal total N inputs, respectively. Manure N input was applied at stable rate, ranging from 45.2 kg x hm(-2) to 48.2 kg x hm(-2) during the 1950s-1970s, but thereafter it decreased over time. The contribution of manure N to total N inputs has decreased from 52% in the 1950s to 9% in the 1990s. Crop residue N retained during the rice growing season has increased from 4.9 kg x hm(-2) in the 1950s to 6.3 kg x hm(-2) in the 1980s. A high spatial variation of nitrogen inputs during the rice growing season was found in the 1950s-1970s, while it was not pronounced in the 1980s-1990s. Overall, the results of this study suggest that the models could be used to quantify direct N2O emissions from rice paddies under various water regimes in China.
19544988	Based on statistical analysis of field N2O measurements in rice paddies in China, the models on direct N2O emissions under different water regimes were established. After successes in model validation and input data verification, the models were used to quantify changes in direct N2O emissions from paddy fields during the rice growing season in mainland China between the 1950s and the 1990s. Due to increases in rice planting area and nitrogen input and changes in water regime, the models predicted that seasonal N2O-N emissions from rice paddies have increased from 9.55 Gg each year in the 1950s to 32.26 Gg N2O-N in the 1990s, which was accompanied by the increase in rice yield over the period 1950s-1990s. During the period 1950s-1990s, seasonal N2O-N emissions from rice paddies have increased, on average, at a rate of 6.74 Gg per decade. Seasonal N2O fluxes in rice paddies were estimated to be 0.32 kg x hm(-2) in the 1950s and 1.00 kg x hm(-2) in the 1990s, which accounted for 0.37% and 0.46% of the seasonal total N inputs, respectively. The uncertainties in N2O estimate were estimated to be 59.8% in the 1950s and 37.5% in the 1990s. Seasonal N2O emissions from rice paddies in the region of middle and lower Yangtze River contributed 51% -56% to its national total. In the 1990s, N2O emissions during the rice growing season accounted for 8%-11% of the reported annual total of N2O emissions from croplands in China, suggesting that paddy rice development could have contributed to mitigating agricultural N2O emissions in the past decades. However, seasonal N2O emissions would be increased given that saving-water irrigation and nitrogen inputs are increasingly adopted in rice paddies in China.
19545020	Dynamics of immobilization of the labeled substrate N by microorganism and soil clay and its residue fractions in soils from the plough layers of two subtropical paddy soils (Reddish clayey soil, Purple alluvial soil) in the Dongting Lake floodplain were studied. A laboratory-flooded incubation experiment was composed of three treatments: control (CK), labeled ammonium sulphate group (15NA) and the combined of labeled ammonium sulphate and rice straw group (S + 15NA). During the incubation, microbial biomass N (BN) increased firstly and then those decreased and tended to stable subsequently, while the content of fixed ammonium changed little. Native BN acted as the major N pool because the percentage-of labeled substrate BN in reddish clayey soil and purple alluvial soil were 0.30%-6.67% and 1.00%-3.47%, respectively. The combined application of rice straw and chemical fertilizer (S + 15NA) improved the immobilization of inorganic N by microorganism, because the immobilization ratio of substrate N in reddish soil and purple alluvial soil were 6.78% and 10.78%, respectively, for S + 15NA treatment, higher than those for 15NA treatment. The immobilization ratio of substrate N by soil clay in reddish clayey soil and purple alluvial soil were 2.48%-10.57% and 12.55%-30.04%, respectively. However, the immobilization ratio of substrate N by soil clay in the two soils were 7.14% and 21.53%, respectively, for S + 15NA treatment, lower than those for NA treatment. The incorporation of chemical fertilizer and rice straw increased the N remain percent. The main residue formation of the labeled substrate N was total hydrolysable N (> 72%) in Reddish clayey soil, while it was total hydrolysable N (44.0%-53.2%) and fixed ammonium (35.2%-37.5%) in Purple alluvial soil. The residue of mineral nitrogen ranged 10%-20% in the two soils. In conclusion, fertilization method and the type of soil clay had important effects on the immobilization and mineralization of substrate N. The combined application of chemical fertilizer and straws increased the immobilization of inorganic nitrogen by microorganism and decreased immobilization of inorganic nitrogen by soil clay. The combined application of chemical fertilizer and straws decreased the loss of chemical fertilizer N, increased residue of nonhydrolysable N, and decreased residue of mineral nitrogen.
19545021	Natural 13C abundance determination method coupled with physical fractionation of soil organic carbon (SOC) was used to evaluate the responses of SOC and its fractions to long-term land-use conversion from paddy field to upland field (corn cultivation). Results showed that land-use conversion from paddy field to upland field led to significant decreases in the contents of SOC and total nitrogen (TN). Concentrations of total organic carbon (TOC) and TN were respectively greater by 76.7% and 47.6% in the paddy field than those in the corn field. Concentrations of occluded particulate organic matter (oPOM) and mineral-associated organic matter (MOM) on a whole soil basis were two times higher in the paddy field than those in the upland field, while no significant difference was found in free particulate organic matter (fPOM). Carbon concentrations of oPOM and MOM fractions on their own weight basis were significantly greater in the paddy field than those in the upland field, especially the oPOM fraction, which was 6 times higher in the former than that in the latter. It could be concluded that SOC protection exerted by soil aggregates in paddy soil was greater than that in upland soil. After a 19-year conversion from paddy field to corn field, delta13C values of SOC fractions significantly increased. Maize-derived carbon (C) accounted for 54.6%, 24.7%, and 19.0% in fPOM, oPOM and MOM, respectively. Mean residence time (MRT) of the initial rice-derived C increased in the order fPOM (24 a) < oPOM (67 a) < MOM (90 a). The above results further indicate that paddy field soil owns greater capability of carbon sequestration than upland soil mainly through increasing the contents of oPOM and MOM in the fractions of SOC.
19545420	Meta-analysis of QTLs combines the results of several QTL detection studies and provides narrow confidence intervals for meta-QTLs, permitting easier positional candidate gene identification. It is usually applied to multiple mapping populations, but can be applied to one. Here, a meta-analysis of drought related QTLs in the Bala x Azucena mapping population compiles data from 13 experiments and 25 independent screens providing 1,650 individual QTLs separated into 5 trait categories; drought avoidance, plant height, plant biomass, leaf morphology and root traits. A heat map of the overlapping 1 LOD confidence intervals provides an overview of the distribution of QTLs. The programme BioMercator is then used to conduct a formal meta-analysis at example QTL clusters to illustrate the value of meta-analysis of QTLs in this population. The heat map graphically illustrates the genetic complexity of drought related traits in rice. QTLs can be linked to their physical position on the rice genome using Additional file 1 provided. Formal meta-analysis on chromosome 1, where clusters of QTLs for all trait categories appear close, established that the sd1 semi-dwarfing gene coincided with a plant height meta-QTL, that the drought avoidance meta-QTL was not likely to be associated with this gene, and that this meta-QTL was not pleiotropic with close meta-QTLs for leaf morphology and root traits. On chromosome 5, evidence suggests that a drought avoidance meta-QTL was pleiotropic with leaf morphology and plant biomass meta-QTLs, but not with meta-QTLs for root traits and plant height 10 cM lower down. A region of dense root QTL activity graphically visible on chromosome 9 was dissected into three meta-QTLs within a space of 35 cM. The confidence intervals for meta-QTLs obtained ranged from 5.1 to 14.5 cM with an average of 9.4 cM, which is approximately 180 genes in rice. The meta-analysis is valuable in providing improved ability to dissect the complex genetic structure of traits, and distinguish between pleiotropy and close linkage. It also provides relatively small target regions for the identification of positional candidate genes.
19545510	Molinate has been widely used as a pre-emergent herbicide in the rice fields of California's Central Valley. In rat studies, the metabolite molinate sulfoxide is suspected of causing testicular toxicity after exposure to molinate. The sulfoxide is generated in the liver and can circulate in the blood, eventually reaching the testis. Man qualitatively produces the same molinate metabolites as the rat. To extrapolate the reproductive risk to man, the present study outlines the development of a preliminary PBPK (physiologically-based pharmacokinetic) model, validation in the rat and extrapolation to man. The preliminary seven-compartment PBPK model for molinate was constructed for the adult, male Sprague-Dawley rat that employed both flow-limited (blood, kidney, liver, rapid-perfused tissues and slowly perfused tissues) and diffusion-limited (fat) rate equations. The systemic circulation connects the various compartments. The simulations predict the molinate blood concentrations of the rat blood and testes compartment favorably with the profiles obtained from 10 and 100mg/kg po or 1.5 and 15mg/kg iv doses. Human physiological parameters were substituted into the oral dosed model and the simulations closely predicted the molinate blood concentration obtained from 5.06mg oral dose. A sensitivity analysis determined for an oral dose that peak blood molinate concentrations were most responsive to the blood flows to kidney and fat compartments while testicular molinate sulfoxide concentrations depended on molinate sulfoxide partition coefficients for the testes compartment and the K(m) for glutathione conjugation of molinate sulfoxide in the liver compartment.
19546322	Rice plant architecture is an important agronomic trait and a major determinant in high productivity. Panicle erectness is the preferred plant architecture in japonica rice, but the molecular mechanism underlying domestication of the erect panicle remains elusive. Here we report the map-based cloning of a major quantitative trait locus, qPE9-1, which plays an integral role in regulation of rice plant architecture including panicle erectness. The R6547 qPE9-1 gene encodes a 426-amino-acid protein, homologous to the keratin-associated protein 5-4 family. The gene is composed of three Von Willebrand factor type C domains, one transmembrane domain, and one 4-disulfide-core domain. Phenotypic comparisons of a set of near-isogenic lines and transgenic lines reveal that the functional allele (qPE9-1) results in drooping panicles, and the loss-of-function mutation (qpe9-1) leads to more erect panicles. In addition, the qPE9-1 locus regulates panicle and grain length, grain weight, and consequently grain yield. We propose that the panicle erectness trait resulted from a natural random loss-of-function mutation for the qPE9-1 gene and has subsequently been the target of artificial selection during japonica rice breeding.
19546891	The fibrous root system in cereals comprises primarily adventitious roots (ARs), which play important roles in nutrient and water uptake. Current knowledge regarding the molecular mechanism underlying AR development is still limited. We report here the isolation of four rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutants, from different genetic backgrounds, all of which were defective in AR formation. These mutants exhibited reduced numbers of lateral roots (LRs) and partial loss of gravitropism. The mutants also displayed enhanced sensitivity to N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid, an inhibitor of polar auxin transport (PAT), indicating that the mutations affected auxin transport. Positional cloning using one of the four mutants revealed that it was caused by loss-of-function of a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for ADP-ribosylation factor (OsGNOM1). RT-PCR and analysis of promoter::GUS transgenic plants showed that OsGNOM1 is expressed in AR primordia, vascular tissues, LRs, root tips, leaves, anthers and lemma veins, with a distribution pattern similar to that of auxin. In addition, the expressions of OsPIN2, OsPIN5b and OsPIN9 were altered in the mutants. Taken together, these findings indicate that OsGNOM1 affects the formation of ARs through regulating PAT.
19547924	We compared the effect of the rice storage protein glutelin B-1 (GluB-1) terminator with the nopaline synthase (Nos) terminator on the accumulation of the modified house dust mite allergen mDer f 2 driven by the maize ubiquitin promoter in transgenic rice. Accumulation of mDer f 2 in transgenic seed and leaf using the GluB-1 terminator was greater than when using the Nos terminator construct. The mDer f 2 mRNA containing the GluB-1 3'UTR was processed and polyadenylated at the same sites as the native GluB-1 mRNA in the seeds but diverged in leaves of the transgenic plants. In contrast, the poly(A) sites of mDer f 2 containing Nos 3'UTR were more divergent in both seed and leaf. These results suggest that GluB-1 3'UTR functions as a faithful terminator and that termination at the specific sites may play an important role in mRNA stability and/or translatability, resulting in higher levels of protein accumulation.
19547930	This study was initiated to examine if variations in the concentrations of cadmium (Cd) and lead (Pb) in water environment may affect metal levels in local foods and body burden of local residents in non-polluted areas in Japan. Two nationwide databases have been made available on concentrations of Cd in locally harvested brown rice and of Cd and Pb in sediments in local river beds. These data were combined with published data on metal concentrations in polished rice, food duplicates, and blood and urine from the residents. Cd in river sediments correlated significantly with those in brown rice, food duplicates, blood, and urine. Cd in food duplicates correlated with Cd in rice. In contrast, Pb concentrations in the river sediments either did not correlate or correlated only weakly with Pb in biological materials or food duplicates. Possible implication of the different behavior between Cd and Pb regarding the intensity of correlation was discussed with reference to the different routes of exposure to the elements. In conclusions, the Cd body burden on local residents in Japan is significantly influenced by Cd levels in water in the general environment, whereas water-borne Pb did not show clear correlation with the Pb body burden.
19548292	Psocids are emerging pests in stored products, particularly in amylaceous commodities such as grains. Currently, their control is based on the use of fumigants and contact insecticides; however, newer data indicate that psocids are tolerant to insecticides used to control other stored-grain species. This study evaluated the insecticides registered in the USA for use on stored maize, rice and wheat for control of the psocid species Lepinotus reticulatus, Liposcelis entomophila, L. bostrychophila and L. paeta. Mortality of exposed adult females was recorded after 7 and 14 days of exposure, while progeny production was assessed after 30 days of exposure. On wheat and rice, chlorpyriphos-methyl + deltamethrin was generally more effective against exposed parental adults than spinosad or pyrethrin, while pirimiphos-methyl was more effective on maize than spinosad or pyrethrin. In most cases, progeny production was suppressed in the treated grains. Progeny production was consistently lowest on wheat and rice treated with chlorpyriphos-methyl + deltamethrin and maize treated with pirimiphos-methyl. Chlorpyriphos-methyl + deltamethrin and pirimiphos-methyl were the most effective insecticides for all species and commodities. Conversely, efficacy of spinosad or pyrethrum was highly dependent on the psocid species and commodity.
19548297	Contamination of surface waters by pesticides is a concern in the United States and around the world. Innovative mitigation strategies are needed to remediate this potential environmental contaminant. One potential solution is to divert pesticide-laden drainage or surface water through agricultural rice fields. With a hydroperiod, hydrosoil and hydrophyte (rice), these systems serve essentially as a type of constructed wetland. In both summer and fall experiments, diazinon-amended water was diverted through two rice ponds at the University of Mississippi Field Station. Likewise, a non-vegetated control pond was amended with diazinon-laden water. Water, sediment and plant samples were taken spatially and temporally to determine the distribution of diazinon within systems. Outflow diazinon concentrations decreased significantly (P < 0.05) from inflow in both vegetated ponds for both preharvest and post-harvest experiments. Although sorption to rice plants was minimal in the overall mass distribution of diazinon (1-3%), temporal data indicated that diazinon concentrations reached the outflow sediment of the non-vegetated control twice as fast as in either vegetated (rice) system. In both vegetated systems, sediment diazinon concentrations decreased (77 and 100%) from inflow to outflow, while a decrease of <2% was noted in the non-vegetated control. Diversion of pesticide-contaminated water through rice fields demonstrated potential as a low-cost, environmentally efficient mitigation practice. Studies on these systems are continuing to evaluate the optimal chemical retention time for rice field mitigation, as well as diazinon transfer to rice grain seeds that may be used as a food source.
19548570	To observe rice cadmium level in a contaminated area where has being continuously polluted for 19 years since last investigation. Samples of late rice (polished) grown in 2006 were collected from farmer household in contaminated and control area and its cadmium concentration were detected with IPC-MS. Samples of polished rice from the polluted and control areas were detected. The average cadmium concentration from last investigation area 19 years before was 0.59 mg/kg (0.05 mg/kg for rice from control area), it upraises about 30% corresponding to average of rice from the same areas detected before 19 years. The average cadmium level of rice from whole contaminated areas (including last investigation and expanding areas) was 0.26 mg/kg and it is greater than that in control areas (0.06 mg/kg) and the limited value of national hygiene standard (< 0.20 mg/kg). There was about 64%, 23.17% and 11% of samples have higher level than 0.20 mg/kg (the limited value of national hygiene standard), 0.4 mg/kg (the limited value of Codex General Standard) and 1.0 mg/kg (cadmium-rice) respectively. There was a higher percentage (36.8%) of Cadmium-rice (greater than 1.0 mg/kg) in some heavy contamination villages. Environmental cadmium pollution has being existing for 19 years since last investigation. Average cadmium concentration of rice from whole country polluted areas was higher than that of national hygiene standard. Percentage of "cadmium-rice" might be higher in some villages.
19549132	Arsenic (As) contamination of rice grains and the generally low concentration of micronutrients in rice have been recognized as a major concern for human health. Here, we investigated the speciation and localization of As and the distribution of (micro)nutrients in rice grains because these are key factors controlling bioavailability of nutrients and contaminants. Bulk total and speciation analyses using high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC)-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) was complemented by spatially resolved microspectroscopic techniques (micro-XANES, micro-X-ray fluorescence (micro-XRF) and particle induced X-ray emission (PIXE)) to investigate both speciation and distribution of As and localization of nutrients in situ. The distribution of As and micronutrients varied between the various parts of the grains (husk, bran and endosperm) and was characterized by element-specific distribution patterns. The speciation of As in bran and endosperm was dominated by As(III)-thiol complexes. The results indicate that the translocation from the maternal to filial tissues may be a bottleneck for As accumulation in the grain. Strong similarities between the distribution of iron (Fe), manganese (Mn) and phosphorus (P) and between zinc (Zn) and sulphur (S) may be indicative of complexation mechanisms in rice grains.
19549309	Sorghum is the first C4 plant and the second grass with a full genome sequence available. This makes it possible to perform a whole-genome-level exploration of C4 pathway evolution by comparing key photosynthetic enzyme genes in sorghum, maize (C4) and rice (C3), and to investigate a long-standing hypothesis that a reservoir of duplicated genes is a prerequisite for the evolution of C4 photosynthesis from a C3 progenitor. We show that both whole-genome and individual gene duplication have contributed to the evolution of C4 photosynthesis. The C4 gene isoforms show differential duplicability, with some C4 genes being recruited from whole genome duplication duplicates by multiple modes of functional innovation. The sorghum and maize carbonic anhydrase genes display a novel mode of new gene formation, with recursive tandem duplication and gene fusion accompanied by adaptive evolution to produce C4 genes with one to three functional units. Other C4 enzymes in sorghum and maize also show evidence of adaptive evolution, though differing in level and mode. Intriguingly, a phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase gene in the C3 plant rice has also been evolving rapidly and shows evidence of adaptive evolution, although lacking key mutations that are characteristic of C4 metabolism. We also found evidence that both gene redundancy and alternative splicing may have sheltered the evolution of new function. Gene duplication followed by functional innovation is common to evolution of most but not all C4 genes. The apparently long time-lag between the availability of duplicates for recruitment into C4 and the appearance of C4 grasses, together with the heterogeneity of origins of C4 genes, suggests that there may have been a long transition process before the establishment of C4 photosynthesis.
19549538	A novel chemically sulfated polysaccharide SRBPS2a with potent anti-tumor activity was derived from defatted rice bran by chlorosulfonic acid-pyridine (CSA-Pyr) method. The average molecular weight of SRBPS2a was 3.5 x 10(5) Da and the degree of sulfation (DS) was 1.29. The Fourier-transform infrared spectra (FT-IR) and 13C NMR spectroscopy analysis revealed that SRBPS2a was mainly consist of beta-(1-->3)-D-galactopyranosyl residues, the sulfate substitution site was on C-2 and C-4 while the side chains were cut off during the sulfated reaction. Furthermore, SRBPS2a exhibited evident growth inhibition on mouse mammary tumor EMT-6 cells both in vitro and in vivo.
19550041	Rice is the first cereal genome with a finished sequence and a model crop that has important syntenic relationships with other cereal species. The objectives of our study were to identify resistance gene analogue (RGA) sequences from chromosome 11 of rice, understand their expression in other cereals and dicots by in silico analysis, determine their presence on other rice chromosomes, and evaluate the extent of polymorphism and actual expression in a set of rice genotypes. A total of 195 RGAs were predicted and physically localised. Of these, 91.79% expressed in rice, and 51.28% expressed in wheat, which was the highest among other cereals. Among monocots, sugarcane showed the highest (78.92%) expression, while among dicots, RGAs were maximally expressed in Arabidopsis (11.79%). Interestingly, two of the chromosome 11-specific RGAs were found to be expressing in all the organisms studied. Eighty RGAs of chromosome 11 had significant homology with chromosome 12, which was the maximum among all the rice chromosomes. Thirty-one per cent of the RGAs used in polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification showed polymorphism in a set of rice genotypes. Actual gene expression analysis revealed post-inoculation induction of one RGA in the rice line IRBB-4 carrying the bacterial blight resistance gene Xa-4. Our results have implications for the development of sequence-based markers and functional validation of specific RGAs in rice.
19550407	The use of oral rehydration solution (ORS) has revolutionized the management of acute diarrhea. The implementation of the standard World Health Organization ORS (WHO-ORS) has resulted in decreased mortality associated with acute diarrheal illnesses in children, although in general stool volume and diarrhea durations are not reduced. Decreased morbidity and mortality have occurred because of improved hydration status. Decreased morbidity has also been described in adults who used this therapy. Various modifications to the standard ORS have been derived. These modifications have included hypo-osmolar or hyperosmolar solutions, use of rice-based ORS, zinc supplementation, and the use of amino acids, including glycine, alanine, and glutamine. Some of these variations have been successful, some have not, and others are still under investigation. ORS has been used for travelers' diarrhea and to decrease intravenous (IV) fluid requirements in patients with short bowel syndrome (SBS) who require parenteral nutrition (PN). This paper reviews the standard WHO-ORS and its mechanism of action, followed by more contemporary reduced osmolarity ORS and rice-based ORS in non-cholera diarrhea. Various modifications to improve ORS are also discussed.
19550486	We investigate experimentally the dependence of the Goos-Hänchen shift on the surface properties of an air-metal interface. The shift depends on the microscopic roughness of the metal surface but it is insensitive to the large-scale variations associated with surface non-flatness. Both an effective medium model of roughness and the Rayleigh-Rice theory of scattering are used to interpret the observed phenomenon.
1955157	The value of genome-specific repetitive DNA sequences for use as molecular markers in studying genome differentiation was investigated. Five repetitive DNA sequences from wild species of rice were cloned. Four of the clones, pOm1, pOm4, pOmA536, and pOmPB10, were isolated from Oryza minuta accession 101141 (BBCC genomes), and one clone, pOa237, was isolated from Oryza australiensis accession 100882 (EE genome). Southern blot hybridization to different rice genomes showed strong hybridization of all five clones to O. minuta genomic DNA and no cross hybridization to genomic DNA from Oryza sativa (AA genome). The pOm1 and pOmA536 sequences showed cross hybridization only to all of the wild rice species containing the C genome. However, the pOm4, pOmPB10, and pOa237 sequences showed cross hybridization to O. australiensis genomic DNA in addition to showing hybridization to the O. minuta genomic DNA.
19551813	Barnyardgrass, Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) Beauv., is one of the most problematic weeds occurring in rice crops. Although efficient chemical control is provided by herbicides available on the market, resistant biotypes provoked by pressure selection have appeared in recent times. This emphasises the need for alternative treatments in which herbicidal compounds from a natural origin could be included. A number of chemicals with a [2H]-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one (D-DIBOA) skeleton were tested on this weed, and also in rice, in order to achieve an optimal lead for herbicide composition development by taking into consideration phytotoxic effects and selectivity on the weed. 6-Cl-D-DIBOA causes the same effect as the commercial herbicide propanil at a concentration 15 times lower, while 6-F-D-DIBOA causes this inhibition at a dose 30 times lower. The phytotoxicities caused by 8-Cl-D-DIBOA (IC50 = 44 microM, R2 = 0.866) and 7,8-diF-D-DIBOA (IC50 = 52 microM, R2 = 0.9067) are also remarkable. 8-Cl-D-DIBOA was the compound that presented the highest selectivity on Echinochloa crus-galli. The structural requirements for optimal phytotoxicity and selectivity were elucidated by means of QSAR methodology, considering electronic and steric factors. One of the most important descriptors influencing the bioactivity was the dipole moment modulus. This was successfully correlated by employing a second-order polynomial model. The in vitro phytotoxic profiles and selectivities shown for these chemicals make them truly promising candidates for higher-level studies. 6F- and 6Cl-D-DIBOA, for their high phytotoxicities, and 8-Cl-D-DIBOA, because of its high selectivity, were found to be the most interesting compounds from this point of view.
19553015	This paper reports the feasibility of using agricultural waste and timber industry waste carbons to remove Cr(VI) from synthetic wastewater under different experimental conditions. For this, rice husk and saw dust have been used as adsorbent after sulphuric acid treatment. Effect of various process parameters, namely, pH, adsorbent dose, initial chromium concentration and contact time has been studied in batch systems. Maximum metal removal was observed at pH 2.0. The efficiencies of rice husk carbon (RHC) and saw dust carbon (SDC) for Cr(VI) removal were 91.75% and 94.33%, respectively for aqueous solutions (250 mg L(-1)) at 20 g L(-1) adsorbent dose. The experimental data was analyzed using Freundlich, Langmuir, Dubinin-Redushkevich (D-R) and Temkin isotherm models. It was found that Langmuir, D-R and Temkin models fitted well. The results revealed that the hexavalent chromium is considerably adsorbed on RHC and SDC and it could be an economical method for the removal of hexavalent chromium from aqueous systems. FTIR and SEM of the adsorbents were recorded in native and Cr(VI)-loaded state to explore the number and position of various functional groups available for Cr(VI) binding onto studied adsorbents and changes in adsorbent surface morphology. The surface area of RHC and SDC was 1.12 and 1.16 m(2)g(-1), respectively.
19554457	The mineral elements present in brown rice play an important physiological role in global human health. We investigated genotypic variation of eight of these elements (P, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Zn, Cu, and Mn) in 11 different grades of brown rice on the basis of the number and distance coefficients of 282 alleles for 20 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. Six-hundred and twenty-eight landraces from the same field in Yunnan Province, one of the largest centers of genetic diversity of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in the world, formed our core collection. The mean concentrations (mg kg(-1)) of the eight elements in brown rice for these landraces were P (3,480) > K (2,540) > Mg (1,480) > Ca (157) > Zn (32.8) > Fe (32.0) > Cu (13.6) > Mn (13.2). Mean P concentrations in brown rice were 6.56 times total soil P, so the grains are important in tissue storage of P, but total soil K is 7.82 times mean K concentrations in brown rice. The concentrations of the eight elements in some grades of brown rice, on the basis of the number and distance coefficients of alleles for 20 SSR markers for the landraces, were significantly different (P < 0.05), and further understanding of the relationship between mineral elements and gene diversity is needed. There was large variation in element concentrations in brown rice, ranging from 2,160 to 5,500 mg P kg(-1), from 1,130 to 3,830 mg K kg(-1), from 61.8 to 488 mg Ca kg(-1), from 864 to 2,020 mg Mg kg(-1), from 0.40 to 147 mg Fe kg(-1), from 15.1 to 124 mg Zn kg(-1), from 0.10 to 59.1 mg Cu kg(-1), and from 6.7 to 26.6 mg Mn kg(-1). Therefore, germplasm evaluations for Ca, Fe, and Zn concentrations in rice grains have detected up to sevenfold genotypic differences, suggesting that selection for high levels of Ca, Fe, and Zn in breeding for mass production is a feasible approach. Increasing the concentrations of Ca, Fe, and Zn in rice grains will help alleviate chronic Ca, Zn, and Fe deficiencies in many areas of the world.
19556706	Intra-and interspecific DNA variations in the blast resistance gene Pita in wild rice (Oryza rufipogon), cultivated rice (O. sativa), and two other related wild rice species (O. meridionalis and O. officinalis) were analyzed to elucidate the nucleotide polymorphism maintenance mechanisms and evolution of Pita in these species. Nucleotide diversity at silent sites of O. rufipogon Pita was 0.0101, an intermediate value relative to other O. rufipogon nuclear genes. A dimorphic pattern of nucleotide polymorphism was detected in the O. rufipogon Pita region. Inoculation of the blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae verified that the O. rufipogon Pita gene resides in a dimorphic sequence type. The resistance Pita allele had lower levels of variation than the susceptibility pita allele. A hypothesis of evolutionary relationships indicated that the amino acid mutation in the O. rufipogon Pita protein responsible for the difference between resistance and susceptibility occurred relatively recently. These results suggested that the resistance Pita originated from the susceptibility pita. Nucleotide diversity at replacement sites of the leucine-rich domain (LRD) of both the resistance and susceptibility O. rufipogon pita was low. In tests of neutrality, significantly negative values were detected for the LRD of O. rufipogon susceptibility pita. The low nucleotide diversity at replacement sites of the LRD of the susceptibility pita could be explained by purifying selection. Comparison of Pita between O. rufipogon and O. officinalis revealed an excess of nonconservative amino acid substitutions in the LRD, which could be related to the host-pathogen interaction.
19556707	The DROOPING LEAF (DL) gene regulates carpel specification in the flower and midrib formation in the leaf in Oryza sativa (rice). Loss-of-function mutations in the dl locus cause homeotic transformation of carpels into stamens and lack of midrib, resulting in the drooping leaf phenotype. DL is a member of the YABBY gene family and is closely related to the CRABS CLAW (CRC) gene in Arabidopsis thaliana. The function of Arabidopsis CRC, however, differs from that of rice DL: it is responsible for nectary development and is partially involved in carpel identity. Thus, genes related to DL/CRC seem to have functionally diversified during angiosperm evolution. To assess the conservation of DL function in related species, here we examined the in situ expression patterns of DL orthologs in three grass species, i.e., maize, wheat and sorghum, which is assigned to subfamilies different from Ehrhartoideae including O. sativa. The results clearly show that the temporal and spatial expression patterns of DL orthologs in the three species are identical to those of rice DL in both flower and leaf development, suggesting that DL-related genes are functionally conserved within the grass family. It is likely that DL may have been recruited to carpel specification and midrib formation within the lineage of the grass family after divergence of their ancestor from that of eudicots.
19556711	A short exposure to light during relative night (night break; NB) delays flowering in the short day plant rice. NB acts by downregulating Heading date 3a (Hd3a) expression. Because phytochrome B mutants do not respond to NB and their flowering time is not affected even under NB conditions, phyB is required for the suppression of Hd3a expression. The effect of NB is quantitatively controlled by light quality and by either light intensity or duration. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate these interactions are poorly understood. Here, we examine the roles of phytochromes in the regulation of Hd3a transcription under NB conditions using monochromatic red, far-red and blue light. Red and blue light downregulated Hd3a expression, but far-red light NB did not. The effect of red light NB on Hd3a is dependent on photon fluence and is restored by subsequent far-red light irradiation. Our results suggest that quantitative effect of light on flowering in rice NB is mediated by the regulation of Hd3a transcription by phyB.
19557027	No enzyme systems responsible for the biosynthesis of structurally and biosynthetically intriguing bis-5-alkylresorcinols produced by plants have been identified. Herein, we show that bacterial, fungal and plant alkylresorcinol-producing type III polyketide synthases (PKSs), such as ArsB in the Gram-negative bacterium Azotobacter vinelandii, ORAS in the fungus Neurospora crassa and ARAS2 in the rice plant Oryza sativa, can synthesize bis-5-alkylresorcinol from alkanedioic acid N-acetylcysteamine dithioester as a starter substrate and from malonyl-CoA as an extender substrate by two-step conversion. Plants presumably use a type III PKS for the biosynthesis of bis-5-alkylresorcinols.
19557433	Studies were conducted to determine the role of sibling species of Anopheles funestus complex in malaria transmission in three agro-ecosystems in central Kenya. Mosquitoes were sampled indoors and outdoors, and rDNA PCR was successfully used to identify 340 specimens. Anopheles parensis (91.8%), A. funestus (6.8%), and Anopheles leesoni (1.5%) were the three sibling species identified. A. parensis was the dominant species at all study sites, while 22 of 23 A. funestus were collected in the non-irrigated study site. None of the 362 specimens tested was positive for Plasmodium falciparum circumsporozoite proteins by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The most common blood-meal sources (mixed blood meals included) for A. parensis were goat (54.0%), human (47.6%), and bovine (39.7%), while the few A. funestus s.s. samples had fed mostly on humans. The human blood index (HBI) for A. parensis (mixed blood meals included) in the non-irrigated agro-ecosystem was 0.93 and significantly higher than 0.33 in planned rice agro-ecosystem. The few samples of A. funestus s.s. and A. funestus s.l. also showed a trend of higher HBI in the non-irrigated agro-ecosystem. We conclude that agricultural practices have significant influence on distribution and blood feeding behavior of A. funestus complex. Although none of the species was implicated with malaria transmission, these results may partly explain why non-irrigated agro-ecosystems are associated with higher risk of malaria transmission by this species compared to irrigated agro-ecosystems.
19558111	In this research,agriculture waste-rice straw was investigated as the sole carbon source as well as biofilm carrier to remove nitrate from wastewater in up-flow laboratory reactors. The experimental results indicated that the startup of the system was quick and a high nitrate removal efficiency was observed. The accumulation of nitrite was not observed in this process. Moreover, high nitrate concentration in the influent had a significant effect on nitrate removal efficiency. The reactor was able to accommodate a wide range of pH (6.5-8.5) and DO (1.0-3.5 mg/L). A time-dependent decrease in nitrate removal efficiency was observed after 84 days of operation. The results showed that rice straw could be used as an economical and effective carbon source for denitrification.
19558410	The preference of paddy rice for NH(4)(+) rather than NO(3)(-) is associated with its tolerance to low pH since a rhizosphere acidification occurs during NH(4)(+) absorption. However, the adaptation of rice root to low pH has not been fully elucidated. This study investigated the acclimation of plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase of rice root to low pH. Rice seedlings were grown either with NH(4)(+) or NO(3)(-). For both nitrogen forms, the pH value of nutrient solutions was gradually adjusted to pH 6.5 or 3.0. After 4 d cultivation, hydrolytic H(+)-ATPase activity, V(max), K(m), H(+)-pumping activity, H(+) permeability and pH gradient across the plasma membrane were significantly higher in rice roots grown at pH 3.0 than at 6.5, irrespective of the nitrogen forms supplied. The higher activity of plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase of adapted rice roots was attributed to the increase in expression of OSA1, OSA3, OSA7, OSA8 and OSA9 genes, which resulted in an increase of H(+)-ATPase protein concentration. In conclusion, a high regulation of various plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase genes is responsible for the adaptation of rice roots to low pH. This mechanism may be partly responsible for the preference of rice plants to NH(4)(+) nutrition.
19558411	In much of the tropics and subtropics, rice (Oryza sativa L.) is grown under long days (LDs). Therefore, LD must play a major role in inducing flowering signal in rice. However, little is known on LD-dependent flowering signal in the species. We previously reported that OsMADS50, which is highly homologous to Arabidopsis SOC1, functions as a positive regulator for flowering. However, its detailed photoperiodic mechanism was not yet elucidated. Here, we report the functional analysis of OsMADS50 and its closely related gene OsMADS56. Knock-out of OsMADS50 caused a late-flowering phenotype only under LD conditions. Overexpression of OsMADS56 (56OX) also resulted in delayed flowering under LD. In the osmads50 mutants and 56OX transgenic plants, transcripts of Ehd1, Hd3a and RFT1 were reduced, although that of OsLFL1 increased. On the other hand, mRNA levels of OsGI, Hd1, OsId1, OsDof12, Ghd7, Hd6 and SE5 were unchanged. These observations imply that OsMADS50 and OsMADS56 function antagonistically through OsLFL1-Ehd1 in regulating LD-dependent flowering. Yeast two-hybrid and co-immunoprecipitation analyses indicated an interaction between those two proteins as well as their formation of homodimers. These results suggest that OsMADS50 and OsMADS56 may form a complex that regulates downstream target genes.
19558665	The spatiotemporal regulation of gene expression largely depends on the presence and absence of cis-regulatory sites in the promoter. In the economically highly important grass family, our knowledge of transcription factor binding sites and transcriptional networks is still very limited. With the completion of the sorghum genome and the available rice genome sequence, comparative promoter analyses now allow genome-scale detection of conserved cis-elements. In this study, we identified thousands of phylogenetic footprints conserved between orthologous rice and sorghum upstream regions that are supported by co-expression information derived from three different rice expression data sets. In a complementary approach, cis-motifs were discovered by their highly conserved co-occurrence in syntenic promoter pairs. Sequence conservation and matches to known plant motifs support our findings. Expression similarities of gene pairs positively correlate with the number of motifs that are shared by gene pairs and corroborate the importance of similar promoter architectures for concerted regulation. This strongly suggests that these motifs function in the regulation of transcript levels in rice and, presumably also in sorghum. Our work provides the first large-scale collection of cis-elements for rice and sorghum and can serve as a paradigm for cis-element analysis through comparative genomics in grasses in general.
19560174	Bioactive gibberellins (GAs) are diterpene plant hormones that are biosynthesized through complex pathways and control diverse aspects of growth and development. GAs were first isolated as metabolites of a fungal rice pathogen, Gibberella fujikuroi, since renamed Fusarium fujikuroi. Although higher plants and the fungus produce structurally identical GAs, significant differences in their GA pathways, enzymes involved and gene regulation became apparent with the identification of GA biosynthetic genes in Arabidopsis thaliana and F. fujikuroi. Recent identifications of GA biosynthetic gene clusters in two other fungi, Phaeosphaeria spp. and Sphaceloma manihoticola, and the high conservation of GA cluster organization in these distantly related fungal species indicate that fungi evolved GA and other diterpene biosynthetic pathways independently from plants. Furthermore, the occurrence of GAs and recent identification of the first GA biosynthetic genes in the bacterium Bradyrhizobium japonicum make it possible to study evolution of GA pathways in general. In this review, we summarize our current understanding of the GA biosynthesis pathway, specifically the genes and enzymes involved as well as gene regulation and localization in the genomes of different fungi and compare it with that in higher and lower plants and bacteria.
19560334	Three industrial by-products (fly ash, phosphogypsum and blast furnace slag), were evaluated for their potential re-use as soil amendments to reduce methane (CH(4)) emission resulting from rice cultivation. In laboratory incubations, CH(4) production rates from anoxic soil slurries were significantly reduced at amendment levels of 0.5%, 1%, 2% and 5% (wt wt(-1)), while observed CO(2) production rates were enhanced. The level of suppression in methane production was the highest for phosphogypsum, followed by blast slag and then fly ash. In the greenhouse experiment, CH(4) emission rates from the rice planted potted soils significantly decreased with the increasing levels (2-20 Mg ha(-1)) of the selected amendments applied, while rice yield simultaneously increased compared to the control treatment. At 10 Mg ha(-1) application level of the amendments, total seasonal CH(4) emissions were reduced by 20%, 27% and 25%, while rice grain yields were increased by 17%, 15% and 23% over the control with fly ash, phosphogypsum, and blast slag amendments, respectively. The suppression of CH(4) production rates as well as total seasonal CH(4) flux could be due to the increased concentrations of active iron, free iron, manganese oxides, and sulfate in the amended soil, which acted as electron acceptors and controlled methanogens' activity by limiting substrates availability. Among the amendments, blast furnace slag and fly ash contributed mainly to improve the soil nutrients balance and increased the soil pH level towards neutral point, but soil acidity was developed with phosphogypsum application. Conclusively, blast slag among the selected amendments would be a suitable soil amendment for reducing CH(4) emissions as well as sustaining rice productivity.
19561057	The FCA protein is involved in controlling flowering time and plays more general roles in RNA-mediated chromatin silencing in Arabidopsis. It contains two RNA-binding domains and a WW domain. The FCA protein interacts with FY, a polyadenylation factor, via its WW domain. We previously characterized a rice gene, OsFCA, which was homologous to FCA. Here, we found that the OsFCA protein could interact through its WW domain with the following proteins: OsFY, a protein containing a CID domain present in RNA-processing factors such as Pcf11 and Nrd1; a protein similar to splicing factor SF1; a protein similar to FUSE splicing factor; and OsMADS8. The FY protein is associated with the 3' end processing machinery in Arabidopsis. Thus, we examined interactions between OsFY and the rice homologs (OsCstF-50, -64 and -77) of the AtCstF-50, -64 and -77 proteins. We found that OsFY could bind OsCstF50, whereas the OsCstF77 protein could bridge the interaction between OsCstF50 and OsCstF64. Taken together, our data suggest that OsFCA could interact with several proteins other than OsFY through its WW domain and may play several roles in rice.
19561331	The biosynthetic pathway of lutein, the most abundant carotenoid in leaves, has been extensively studied, while its degradation pathway during senescence is poorly understood. We found that a novel carotenoid derivative, lutein 3-acetate, accumulates in senescent leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.). The change in contents of lutein and lutein 3-acetate suggests that lutein is converted to lutein 3-acetate during senescence. Analysis of mutants involved in light-harvesting complex II (LHCII) accumulation and degradation suggests that the converting activity is induced during senescence and that only free lutein, not lutein bound to LHCII, is converted into lutein 3-acetate.
19561334	Interaction and cross-talk between microtubules and actin microfilaments are important for the cell axis and polarity during plant cell growth and development, but little is known about the molecular components of this interaction. Plant kinesins with a calponin-homology domain (KCHs) were recently identified and associated with a putative role in microtubule-microfilament cross-linking. KCHs belong to a distinct branch of the minus end-directed kinesin subfamily and so far have only been identified in land plants including the mosses. Here we report the identification of a new KCH from rice (Oryza sativa), OsKCH1, and show that OsKCH1 is associated with cortical microtubules and actin microfilaments in vivo. Furthermore, OsKCH1 is shown to bind to micro-tubules and actin microfilaments in vitro in a domain-dependent way. Additionally, this unique type of kinesin is shown to oligomerize both in vivo and in vitro. These findings are discussed with respect to a general role for KCHs as linkers between actin filaments and microtubules in both cell elongation and division.
19561970	In early May 2008, Cyclone Nargis (CN) tore across the southern coastal regions of Myanmar, pushing a tidal surge through villages and rice paddies. The almost 12 foot wall of water and wind speed of over 200 km/hr killed tens of thousands of people and left hundreds of thousands homeless and vulnerable to injury and disease. Out of the 7.35 million living in the affected townships of Labutta, Bogale, Pyinsalu, Yangon, and many more, approximately 2.4 million were affected. Overall, more than 50 townships were affected by this most devastating cyclone in Asia since 1991. The Delta region, Myanmar's Rice Bowl, was severely damaged. The low-lying villages were submerged. There was widespread destruction of homes, critical infrastructure of the villages, roads, ferries, water, fuel, and electricity supplies. Our team from Singapore (called Team Singapore) reached out to at least 10 different villages during the time we were there. We ran mobile clinics daily at several locations and these operated from warehouses, temples, schools or any make shift buildings. The journey to the remote villages may take between 1 and 2 hours by road or by boat. We also ran mobile clinics at the township hospital, the rural healthcare centers, and an orphanage.
19562245	Methanogenesis in paddy fields is significantly influenced by environmental and field management factors such as rice cultivar and nitrogenous fertilizer. However, it has been unclear whether such effects are reflected in the structure of methanogenic archaeal populations. In the present study, molecular analyses including cloning and sequencing and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprinting of archaeal 16S rRNA genes were used to characterize the methanogenic archaeal assemblages and to identify the effect of environmental variables including rice cultivar and N fertilizer on archaeal community compositions in a Chinese paddy field soil. The correlation between methanogenic archaeal composition and environmental variables was explored by correspondence analysis. The results showed that the spatial or niche factor (rice roots versus rhizosphere, surface, and the deeper layer soils) had the greatest influence on the archaeal community composition. There was an obvious enrichment or selection of hydrogenotrophic as opposed to acetoclastic methanogens by rice roots. The archaeal community also changed, though slightly, between the rhizosphere and bulk soils and between the surface soil and the deeper layer soil. However, rice cultivar and N fertilizer appear to have an effect only on methanogens tightly associated with rice roots.
19562507	A full-length cDNA encoding a maize GTP-binding protein of the ADP-ribosylation factor family was cloned by suppression subtractive hybridization and an in silico cloning approach. The cDNA was 938 bp in length and contained a complete ORF of 612 bp, which encodes a protein of 203 amino acid residues. Its deduced amino acids sequence had an 83% identity with that of a GTP-binding protein in rice. The gene was designated ZmArf2. The ZmArf2 gene consists of G1, G2, G3, G4 and G5 boxes, and Switch I and Switch II regions. Eight nucleotides differed and five amino acids changed between the popcorn inbred N04 and the dent corn inbred Dan232. One changed amino acid was in the G1 box. RT-PCR analysis showed that ZmArf2 expression increased in the early stages of endosperm development and was not tissue-specific.
19564155	UDP-alpha-D-galacturonic acid (UDP-GalA) is a key precursor for the synthesis of various bacterial and plant polysaccharides. UDP-glucuronic acid 4-epimerase (UGlcAE) catalyses the reversible conversion of UDP-alpha-D-glucuronic acid to UDP-GalA. UGlcAEs isolated from bacterial species have different biochemical properties when compared with the isoenzymes from the plant dicot species, Arabidopsis. However, little is known about the specificity of UGlcAE in Poaceae species. Therefore, we cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli several maize and rice UGlcAE genes, and compared their enzymatic properties with dicot homologs from Arabidopsis. Our data show that UGlcAE isoforms in different plant species have different enzymatic properties. For example, the Poaceae UGlcAE enzymes from rice and maize have significantly lower K(i) for UDP-xylose when compared with the Arabidopsis enzymes. The epimerases from different plant species are very specific and unlike their bacterial homolog in Klebsiella pneumoniae, can only use UDP-GlcA or UDP-GalA as their substrate. This study demonstrates that although members of the plant UGlcAE isoforms are highly conserved, the in vitro enzymatic activity of specific Poaceae isoform(s) may be regulated differently by specific nucleotide or nucleotide sugar.
19566645	The rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome contains at least six genes exclusively with an SPX (SYG1/PHO81/XPR1) domain at the N-terminal, designated as OsSPX1-6. Here we report the diverse expression patterns of the OsSPX genes in different tissues and their responses to Pi-starvation. Among them, five genes, OsSPX1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 are responsive to Pi-starvation in shoots and/or in roots. The subcellular localization analysis indicates that OsSPX1 and OsSPX2 is exclusively located in nucleus, OsSPX3 in the cytoplasm, and OsSPX4 is a membrane localization protein. OsSPX1 regulates OsSPX2, 3 and 5 at the transcription level and is positively involved in the responses of the genes to Pi-starvation. Overexpression of OsSPX3 downregulates OsSPX5 in shoots under Pi-sufficiency. OsSPX3 negatively regulates the PSI (Pi-starvation induced) gene, OsIPS1 and is involved in the responses of miR399 and OsPHO2 to Pi-starvation. Our results suggest that OsSPX1 may be a regulator involved in the transcriptions of OsSPX2, 3 and 5. OsSPX3 plays a role in OsIPS1/miR399 mediated long distance regulation on OsPHO2. Our results also indicate that OsSPX3 is involved in plant tolerance to Pi-starvation stress.
19567376	Seed storage proteins are specifically and highly synthesized during seed maturation and are deposited into protein bodies (PBs) via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) lumen. The accumulation process is mediated by ER chaperones such as luminal binding protein (BiP) and protein disulfide isomerase (PDI). To examine the role of ER chaperones and the relationship between ER chaperones and levels of accumulation of seed storage proteins, we generated transgenic rice plants in which the rice BiP and PDI genes were overexpressed in an endosperm-specific manner under the control of the rice seed storage protein glutelin promoter. The seed phenotype of the PDI-overexpressing transformant was almost identical to that of the wild type, whereas overexpression of BiP resulted in transgenic rice seed that displayed an opaque phenotype with floury and shrunken features. In the BiP-overexpressing line, the levels of accumulation of seed storage proteins and starch contents were significantly lower compared with the wild type. Interestingly, overproduction of BiP in the endosperm of the transformant not only altered the morphological structure of ER-derived PB-I, but also generated unusual new PB-like structures composed of a high electron density matrix containing glutelin and BiP and a low electron density matrix containing prolamins. Notably, polysomes were attached around the aberrant PB-like structures, indicating that this aberrant structure is an ER-derived PB-I derivative. These results suggested that the PB-like structure may be formed in the ER lumen, resulting in inhibition of translation, folding and transport of seed proteins.
19567564	A Gram-negative-staining bacterium, designated strain 25BT, was isolated from a soil sample from a rice field in Guangxi Province, China, and its taxonomic position was investigated by using a polyphasic approach. Cells were rod-shaped, non-spore-forming, non-motile and strictly aerobic. Strain 25BT grew optimally at 37 degrees C and pH 7.0. The predominant fatty acids of this soil isolate were C18:1omega7c, C19:0 cyclo omega8c and C16:0. Phylogenetic analysis based on the almost-complete 16S rRNA gene sequence showed that strain 25BT formed a monophyletic clade with the type strain of Microvirga subterranea; the two organisms shared 97.2% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity. However, the two strains shared low DNA-DNA relatedness. Strain 25BT was also readily distinguishable from Microvirga subterranea DSM 14364T by various phenotypic characteristics. The combination of genotypic and phenotypic data suggests that the isolate represents a novel species of the genus Microvirga, for which the name Microvirga guangxiensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is 25BT (=CGMCC 1.7666T=JCM 15710T).
19570592	We isolated two rice endo-(1,3;1,4)-beta-glucanase genes, denoted OsEGL1 and OsEGL2, which encoded proteins that shared 64% amino acid sequence identity. Both the OsEGL1 and OsEGL2 genes were successfully expressed in Escherichia coli to produce functional proteins. Purified OsEGL1 and OsEGL2 proteins hydrolyzed (1,3;1,4)-beta-glucans, but not (1,3;1,6)-beta-linked or (1,3)-beta-linked glucopolysaccharides nor carboxymethyl cellulose, similar to previously characterized grass endo-(1,3;1,4)-beta-glucanases. RNA blot analysis revealed that the OsEGL1 gene is expressed constitutively not only in young roots of rice seedlings, but also in mature roots of adult rice plants. Little or no expression of the OsEGL2 gene was observed in all tissues or treatments tested, but database and RT-PCR analysis indicated it is expressed in ripening panicle. In rice seedling leaves, OsEGL1 gene expression significantly increased in response to methyl jasmonate, abscisic acid, ethephon and mechanical wounding. Mechanical wounding also increased the leaf elongation rate in rice seedlings by 16% relative to that of control seedlings at day 4 after treatment. The increase in the leaf elongation rate of rice seedlings treated under mechanical wounding was concomitant with an increase in OsEGL1 expression levels in seedling leaves.
19571305	Analysis reveals that there is limited overlap in the sets of transcripts that show significant changes in abundance during anaerobiosis in different plant species. This may be due to the fact that a combination of primary effects, changes due to the presence or absence of oxygen, and secondary effects, responses to primary changes or tissue and developmental responses, are measured together and not differentiated from each other. In order to dissect out these responses, the effect of the presence or absence of oxygen was investigated using three different experimental designs using rice (Oryza sativa) as a model system. A total of 110 metabolites and 9,596 transcripts were found to change significantly in response to oxygen availability in at least one experiment. However, only one-quarter of these showed complementary responses to oxygen in all three experiments, allowing the core response to oxygen availability to be defined. A total of 10 metabolites and 1,136 genes could be defined as aerobic responders (up-regulated in the presence of oxygen and down-regulated in its absence), and 13 metabolites and 730 genes could be defined as anaerobic responders (up-regulated in the absence of oxygen and down-regulated in its presence). Defining core sets of transcripts that were sensitive to oxygen provided insights into alterations in metabolism, specifically carbohydrate and lipid metabolism and the putative regulatory mechanisms that allow rice to grow under anaerobic conditions. Transcript abundance of a specific set of transcription factors was sensitive to oxygen availability during all of the different experiments conducted, putatively identifying primary regulators of gene expression under anaerobic conditions. Combined with the possibility of selective transcript degradation, these transcriptional processes are involved in the core response of rice to anaerobiosis.
19572049	Red yeast rice is a Chinese fermented rice product (Monascus purpureus) that some have claimed improves blood circulation by decreasing cholesterol and triglyceride levels in humans. The supplement contains naturally occurring monacolin K, the active ingredient found in Merck's prescription agent lovastatin (Mevacor). Lovastatin is associated with various adverse effects such as myopathy and abnormal liver function test results, which can lead to serious problems if patients are not monitored and treated. The inclusion of lovastatin in red yeast rice and the lack of dietary supplement regulation by the FDA raise safety concerns for health care professionals as well as for patients. Studies have shown that red yeast rice products can be beneficial in lowering serum cholesterol levels, but they are not without risk. Furthermore, product uniformity, purity, labeling, and safety cannot be guaranteed.
19574435	Silicon (Si) uptake has been extensively examined in rice (Oryza sativa), but it is poorly understood in other gramineous crops. We identified Low Silicon Rice 2 (Lsi2)-like Si efflux transporters from two important gramineous crops: maize (Zea mays) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). Both maize and barley Lsi2 expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes showed Si efflux transport activity. Furthermore, barley Lsi2 was able to recover Si uptake in a rice mutant defective in Si efflux. Maize and barley Lsi2 were only expressed in the roots. Expression of maize and barley Lsi2 was downregulated in response to exogenously applied Si. Moreover, there was a significant positive correlation between the ability of roots to absorb Si and the expression levels of Lsi2 in eight barley cultivars, suggesting that Lsi2 is a key Si transporter in barley. Immunostaining showed that maize and barley Lsi2 localized only at the endodermis, with no polarity. Protein gel blot analysis indicated that maize and barley Lsi2 localized on the plasma membrane. The unique features of maize and barley Si influx and efflux transporters, including their cell-type specificity and the lack of polarity of their localization in Lsi2, indicate that these crops have a different Si uptake system from that in rice.
19575195	A novel endo-beta-1,4-glucanase (EG)-producing strain was isolated and identified as Penicillium pinophilum KMJ601 based on its morphology and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA gene sequence. When rice straw and corn steep powder were used as carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively, the maximal EG activity of 5.0 U mg protein(-1), one of the highest levels among EG-producing microorganisms, was observed. The optimum temperature and pH for EG production were 28 degrees C and 5.0, respectively. The increased production of EG by P. pinophilum in culture at 28 degrees C was confirmed by two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by MS/MS sequencing of the partial peptide. A partial EG gene (eng5) was amplified by degenerate polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based on the peptide sequence. A full-length eng5 was cloned by genome-walking PCR, and P. pinophilum EG was identified as a member of glycoside hydrolase family 5. The present results should contribute to improved industrial production of EG by P. pinophilum KMJ601.
19575250	Recent updates in comparative genomics among cereals have provided the opportunity to identify conserved orthologous set (COS) DNA sequences for cross-genome map-based cloning of candidate genes underpinning quantitative traits. New tools are described that are applicable to any cereal genome of interest, namely, alignment criterion for orthologous couples identification, as well as the Intron Spanning Marker software to automatically select intron-spanning primer pairs. In order to test the software, it was applied to the bread wheat genome, and 695 COS markers were assigned to 1,535 wheat loci (on average one marker/2.6 cM) based on 827 robust rice-wheat orthologs. Furthermore, 31 of the 695 COS markers were selected to fine map a pentosan viscosity quantitative trait loci (QTL) on wheat chromosome 7A. Among the 31 COS markers, 14 (45%) were polymorphic between the parental lines and 12 were mapped within the QTL confidence interval with one marker every 0.6 cM defining candidate genes among the rice orthologous region.
19577449	IgE-targeting therapy could provide significant progress in the treatment of allergic inflammation. In this study, we examined the effect of cycloartenyl ferulate (cycloartenol ferulic acid ester; CAF), a natural product from rice bran oil-derived gamma-oryzanol, on allergic reaction. When CAF and gamma-oryzanol were injected intradermally with anti-DNP IgE into the dorsal skin of rats, the passive cutaneous anaphylaxis reaction induced by DNP-HSA was attenuated. CAF and gamma-oryzanol also inhibited the degranulation of DNP-IgE sensitized RBL-2H3 mast cells stimulated with anti-DNP-HSA. IgE conjugated with CAF could not be detected by anti-IgE antibody in the ELISA analysis. Although incubation of IgE with CAF did not decrease the amount of IgE, it was possible to precipitate IgE by centrifugation. These results demonstrate that CAF captures IgE, prevents it from binding to FcepsilonRI, and attenuates mast cell degranulation.
19578150	Twelve facultatively anaerobic, endophytic diazotrophs were isolated from surface-sterilized roots of the wild rice species Oryza latifolia and characterized by phenotypic and molecular methods. Six isolates were grouped together as group A by phenotypic characters, and this grouping was confirmed by SDS-PAGE whole-cell protein patterns and insertion sequence-based PCR (IS-PCR) methods. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence indicated that group A, represented by strain Ola 51(T), is closely related to Enterobacter radicincitans D5/23(T) (98.9 % similarity, except that E. radicincitans D5/23(T) has a 70 bp insertion) and Enterobacter cloacae (98.0 % similarity to the type strain). rpoB gene sequence analysis also showed strain Ola 51(T) has the highest sequence similarity to E. radicincitans DSM 16656(T) (98.3 %), but supported the distinct position. Biological and biochemical tests, protein patterns, genomic DNA fingerprinting, antibiotic resistance and comparison of cellular fatty acids showed differences among group A, E. radicincitans DSM 16656(T) and E. cloacae ATCC 13047(T). DNA-DNA hybridization distinguished strain Ola 51(T) from closely phylogenetically related Enterobacter species. Based on these data, the novel species Enterobacter oryzae sp. nov. is proposed, with strain Ola 51(T) (=LMG 24251(T) =CGMCC 1.7012(T)) as the type strain.
19578735	In an age where we can i) know precisely where a misplaced automobile resides by its global positioning, ii) send mechanistic probes to Mars with pinpoint accuracy, iii) calculate exactly how many mutations are required to create (i.e., to transform) a cancer cell, and iv) determine how many fewer genes it takes to develop a human being than it does a rice plant, it is difficult to fathom the previously unanswered question: 'Whatever happened to the promise and potential of cancer gene therapy?' This review answers that question with a resounding clinical dénouement. In addition, it provides a 'Cooks tour' of applied molecular genetics and nanotechnology as these fields relate to the development of Rexin-G the world's first tumor-targeted genetic medicine to be fully validated in the clinic. The commentary will expose certain fallacies and ideologies that have retarded the progress of cancer gene therapy as it advances our instruments and understanding of the finespun fabric of our nature.
19579831	From the Nara period through to the end of the Heian and early Kamakura periods, the population of Japan grew by 50% thanks to increases in rice cultivation. Such expanded food production resulted in changes in the social structure providing opportunities to those in control of armed forces to become local feudal lords. Many wars fought in the process necessitated the development of treatment methods for Kinso (wounds caused by swords, spears, and similar weapons), to which Jinsoes (Buddhist monks/doctors that accompanied troops) attended, making extensive use of herbal medicine that had been developed by the people of the time. Many war commanders brought Jinsoes to battle fields, which became a custom during the Sengoku (warring) period. As many of the Jinsoes were well educated, they also served as entertainers to the commanders through their knowledge in Go or Renga (a game involving popular poetical verses). Their talents and training eventually resulted in many of the so called traditional arts including Noh, Kabuki, tea ceremony and earthenware production.
19579932	For investigating the effect of chemical fertilizer as well as biofertilizers on seed yield and quality i.e. oil, protein and nutrients concentration of rapeseed (Brassica napus L.), a split-plot fertilizers application experimental design in 4 replications was carried out during the 2005-2006 growing season, at the Gharakheil Agricultural Research Station in the Mazandaran province of Iran. Rapeseed was grown as a second crop in rotation after rice. Biofertilizers treatments were two different levels: control (no seed inoculation) and seeds inoculation with a combination of Azotobacter chroococcum and Azosprillum brasilense and Azosprillum lipoferum, as main plot and chemical fertilizers comprised N, P, K and their combinations, NPKS and NPK Zn as sub plots. The maximum value of seed yield obtained at (BF+NPK Zn) 3421.2 kg h(-1) corresponding to 244.5 pods per plant and maximum concentration of Zn in leaves as well as seeds. The highest weight of 1000 seeds (4.45 g) happened to obtain at (BF+NPK S) which coinciding with the maximum K levels in leaves. The highest number of branches was obtained at (BF+NPK Zn) with 4.43 branches per plant i.e., 46.2% increase over the control. The maximum value of rapeseed oil content 47.73% obtained at T16 (BF+NK) but maximum protein concentration of seed obtained at T12 (BF+N). Overall the results indicated that inoculation resulted in increase in seeds yield (21.17%), number of pods per plant (16.05%), number of branches (11.78%), weight of 1000 grain (2.92%), oil content of seeds (1.73%) and protein (3.91%) but decrease (-0.24%) in number of seeds per pods comparing to non-Biofertilizers treatments. Irrespective to the treatments, results showed that application of Biofertilizers coincided with 3.86, 0.82, 2.25, 0.75 and 0.91% increase in concentrations of N, P, K, S and Zn in the seeds over the non-Biofertilizers treatments.
19579957	The distribution of a retrotransposon, p-SINE1-r2 located at the waxy locus was analyzed by the PCR assay in the perennial wild rice (Oryza rufipogon) which inhabited in four isolated and six disturbed populations and in the weedy rice population. The level of clonality of the wild rice species was determined in populations subject to level of water supply and another disturbance. The results showed that all four isolated populations carried the genotype (-/-) and (-/+), while three genotypes (-/-), (-/+) and (+/+) was found on the six populations which grown near by rice fields. This finding was strongly supported the idea that the original wild rice populations of O. rufipogon exhibited prominent genotype (-/-) and (-/+) and mainly propagated by vegetative reproduction and the allele (+) which found in the wild rice plant with the genotype (+/+) may originated from gene flow from cultivated rice to wild rice. Weedy rice accessions used in this study showed the three genotypes based on this DNA locus. The distribution of this DNA locus in wild rice and weedy rice populations were deviated from the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The perennial wild rice populations were annually under season drought (March to May of the year in Thailand, Laos and Cambodia), they tended to have small size clones with relatively high clonal diversity (i.e., number of genotypes), except for the population from Cambodia, which carried only the genotype (-/+). Although DNA maker used to detect genetic variation at population levels is too small, but this locus is very sensitive enough to be a useful indicator for genetic variation at the population level.
19579979	The effect of salinity on morphological characters of salt tolerant genotypes PVSB9, PVSB19, PNR381, PNR519, Iratom24 and salt sensitive genotype NS15 along with one standard check salt tolerant rice cultivar Pokkali were assessed in two factors Completely Randomized Design with four replications. Seven rice genotypes in combination with six levels of salinity (0, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 15 dS m(-1)) were randomly assigned in 168 experimental plastic pots. The different morphological characters studied include plant height, total number of tillers, Root Dry Weight (RDW), Shoot Dry Weight (SDW) and Total Dry Matter (TDM) content of the selected rice genotypes in view to evaluate their response at different salinity levels. The results on the effect of morphological characters indicated that plant height, total tillers, root, shoot and total dry matter were significantly decreased by the application of salinity. The genotypes Pokkali, PVSB9, PVSB19 showed significantly higher values and the lowest value of all these characters were recorded in NS15. A sharp decrease in percent relative-plant height, RDW, SDW, TDM, total tillers were found in susceptible genotype NS 15 after 3 dS m(-1) level of salinity, but these characters were found to decrease slowly in tolerant genotypes.
19580014	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of seed coating substances; chemical fungicide (CA) and biological fungicide polymers [chitosan-lignosulphonate polymer (CL) and eugenol incorporated into chitosan-lignosulphonate polymer (E+CL)] on chemical and biochemical changes of rice seeds cv. KDML 105, which have been studied during storage for 12 months. CA significantly affected the rice seed chemical properties and the associated seed deterioration. After 12 months storage, protein content decreased accompanied by declined of lipid content, increased free fatty acids and activated lipoxygenase enzyme. In the case of biological fungicide coated seeds, the antioxidative scavenging enzymes were ascorbate peroxidase and superoxide dismutase and a high antioxidant activity protected them. Moreover, the sugar content was positive correlated with seed germination and vigor. The biological coated seeds were found to maintain high sugar contents inside the seeds, which resulted high seed storability significantly. In contrast, under fungicide stress (CA), those compounds were lost that directly affected seed vigor during storage.
19580663	Adult malaria vector sampling is the most important parameter for setting up an intervention and understanding disease dynamics in malaria endemic areas. The intervention will ideally be species-specific according to sampling output. It was the objective of this study to evaluate four sampling techniques, namely human landing catch, pit shelter, indoor resting collection and odour-baited entry trap. These four sampling methods were evaluated simultaneously for thirty days during October 2008, a season of low mosquitoes density and malaria transmission. These trapping methods were performed in one village for maximizing homogeneity in mosquito density. The cattle and man used in odour-baited entry trap were rotated between the chambers to avoid bias. A total of 3,074 mosquitoes were collected. Among these 1,780 (57.9%) were Anopheles arabiensis and 1,294 (42.1%) were Culex quinquefasciatus. Each trap sampled different number of mosquitoes, Indoor resting collection collected 335 (10.9%), Odour-baited entry trap-cow 1,404 (45.7%), Odour-baited entry trap-human 378 (12.3%), Pit shelter 562 (18.3%) and HLC 395 (12.8%). General linear model univariate analysis method was used, position of the trapping method had no effect on mosquito density catch (DF = 4, F = 35.596, P = 0.78). Days variation had no effect on the collected density too (DF = 29, F = 4.789, P = 0.09). The sampling techniques had significant impact on the caught mosquito densities (DF = 4, F = 34.636, P < 0.0001). The Wilcoxon pair-wise comparison between mosquitoes collected in human landing catch and pit shelter was significant (Z = -3.849, P < 0.0001), human landing catch versus Indoor resting collection was not significant (Z = -0.502, P = 0.615), human landing catch versus odour-baited entry trap-man was significant (Z = -2.687, P = 0.007), human landing catch versus odour-baited entry trap-cow was significant (Z = -3.127, P = 0.002). Odour-baited traps with different baits and pit shelter have shown high productivity in collecting higher densities of mosquitoes than human landing catch. These abilities are the possibilities of replacing the human landing catch practices for sampling malaria vectors in areas with An. arabiensis as malaria vectors. Further evaluations of these sampling methods need to be investigated is other areas with different species.
19581049	Adsorbent/ferrite composites can adsorb and degrade organics in the organic wastewater treatment. In this study, a rice hull/MnFe(2)O(4) composite (RHM) was prepared via calcination under nitrogen atmosphere and was used to treat organic wastewater with the assistance of microwave radiation. Rice hull was pyrolysed to a porous substrate that consisted of silica and activated carbon under high temperature. Monodisperse spinel MnFe(2)O(4) nanoparticles whose mean diameter is around 59 nm are distributed on the substrate. With the assistance of microwave radiation, RHM was motivated to a hotspot of adsorption and catalysis which could remove more than 70% COD of wastewater within 6 min. The maximum COD removal was 73.5% when the concentration of RHM was 15 mg mL(-1) and the irradiation time of microwave radiation was 6 min. Although the BET surface area and iodine value of RHM are half of rice hull ash (RHA), the COD removal of RHM is 7-20% higher than that of RHA. It is attributed to the presence of MnFe(2)O(4), which enhances the catalytic activity of RHM. RHM can be regenerated via water washing. However, the surface area and the maximum COD removal of RHM decrease for each regeneration cycle. With the advantages of low cost and rapid processing, this novel rice hull/MnFe(2)O(4) composite could gain promising application in wastewater treating-agent.
19584015	ATP-binding cassette (ABC) proteins constitute a large and diverse superfamily of membrane-bound and soluble proteins, which are involved in a wide range of biological processes in all organisms from prokaryotes to eukaryotes. Genome analyses of model plants, for example, Arabidopsis and rice, have revealed that plants have more than double numbers of this family member in their genomes compared to animals and insects. In recent years, various biochemical and physiological functions of ABC proteins in plants have been reported. Some are relevant for the defense mechanisms to biotic and abiotic stresses, whereas others are involved in the basic functions necessary for maintaining the plant life. Here, we provide an updated inventory of plant ABC proteins and summarize their tissue specificities, membrane localizations, and physiological functions.
19584097	To address the role of small regulatory RNAs in rice development, we generated a large data set of small RNAs from mature leaves and developing roots, shoots, and inflorescences. Using a spatial clustering algorithm, we identified 36,780 genomic groups of small RNAs. Most consisted of 24-nt RNAs that are expressed in all four tissues and enriched in repeat regions of the genome; 1029 clusters were composed primarily of 21-nt small RNAs and, strikingly, 831 of these contained phased RNAs and were preferentially expressed in developing inflorescences. Thirty-eight of the 24-mer clusters were also phased and preferentially expressed in inflorescences. The phased 21-mer clusters derive from nonprotein coding, nonrepeat regions of the genome and are grouped together into superclusters containing 10-46 clusters. The majority of these 21-mer clusters (705/831) are flanked by a degenerate 22-nt motif that is offset by 12 nt from the main phase of the cluster. Small RNAs complementary to these flanking 22-nt motifs define a new miRNA family, which is conserved in maize and expressed in developing reproductive tissues in both plants. These results suggest that the biogenesis of phased inflorescence RNAs resembles that of tasiRNAs and raise the possibility that these novel small RNAs function in early reproductive development in rice and other monocots.
19584142	Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) describes the transmission of genetic material across species boundaries and is an important evolutionary phenomenon in the ancestry of many microbes. The role of HGT in plant evolutionary history is, however, largely unexplored. Here, we compare the genomes of six plant species with those of 159 prokaryotic and eukaryotic species and identify 1689 genes that show the highest similarity to corresponding genes from fungi. We constructed a phylogeny for all 1689 genes identified and all homolog groups available from the rice (Oryza sativa) genome (3177 gene families) and used these to define 14 candidate plant-fungi HGT events. Comprehensive phylogenetic analyses of these 14 data sets, using methods that account for site rate heterogeneity, demonstrated support for nine HGT events, demonstrating an infrequent pattern of HGT between plants and fungi. Five HGTs were fungi-to-plant transfers and four were plant-to-fungi HGTs. None of the fungal-to-plant HGTs involved angiosperm recipients. These results alter the current view of organismal barriers to HGT, suggesting that phagotrophy, the consumption of a whole cell by another, is not necessarily a prerequisite for HGT between eukaryotes. Putative functional annotation of the HGT candidate genes suggests that two fungi-to-plant transfers have added phenotypes important for life in a soil environment. Our study suggests that genetic exchange between plants and fungi is exceedingly rare, particularly among the angiosperms, but has occurred during their evolutionary history and added important metabolic traits to plant lineages.
19585039	The molecular structure of a variety of novel mercury-phytochelatin complexes was evidenced in rice plants exposed to inorganic mercury (Hg2+) using RP-HPLC with simultaneous detection via ICP-MS and ES-MS.
19585064	The behavior of simetryn and thiobencarb in flooded rice soil was investigated in a 2-year study. The concentrations of simetryn and thiobencarb were in the hundreds of μg kg−1 in the top soil layer (0–5 cm) and became significantly lower in tens of μg kg−1 in the deeper soil layers (5–10 and 10–15 cm). The half-lives of the two herbicides were also shorter (36 and 17 days for simetryn and thiobencarb, respectively) in the top soil layer, as they were most affected by environmental conditions, compared with corresponding values of 82 and 69 days in the 5–10 cm soil layer. Simetryn concentration was stable, while thiobencarb’s half-life was 165 days in the 10–15 cm layer. About 35% of the applied mass of simetryn and thiobencarb were found in the rice soil compartment.
19586096	The O-O bond dissociation of HOOH is investigated on an analytic ab initio potential-energy surface obtained by fitting the energies of 25,608 configurations using neural network (NN) methods. The electronic structure calculations are executed using MP2 calculations with the 6-31G* basis set. A new data-sampling technique is introduced to collect HOOH configurations in the six-dimensional hyperspace. This method is based on a comparison of the NN-computed gradients at configuration points currently in the database with the target gradients. By requiring that the NN gradients closely fit the MP2 target gradients, both the potential and the gradients are more accurately fitted. The selection criteria also ensure a more uniform distribution of configuration points throughout the important regions of configuration space. Molecular dynamics (MD) trajectories are not involved in the sampling. The final NN fitting yields average absolute and root-mean-squared testing set errors of 0.0060 eV (0.58 kJ mol(-1)) and 0.0099 eV (0.96 kJ mol(-1)), respectively. The effectiveness of the support vector machine (SVM) method in fitting large ab initio databases for MD calculations is investigated by using this method to fit the same HOOH database. The SVM fitting quality is tested by comparison to the NN fit. It is found that the average absolute and root-mean-squared testing set errors for the SVM fit are significantly larger than those obtained using NN methods. The total number of parameters in the SVM fit is more than a factor of 11 times the number of parameters in the NN fit. The trajectory computation time using a single NN averages about 1.8 s per picosecond of trajectory time. This increases to 9.0 s per picosecond of trajectory time if a five-NN committee is employed. The corresponding SVM computational time is almost 24 s per picosecond of trajectory time. Consequently, we conclude that a SVM is not as effective in fitting large databases for MD calculations as previously proposed methods, and thus is not employed to conduct MD studies. We employ the five-member NN committee to perform MD calculations at five different internal energies from 3.4 to 4.2 eV, including zero point energy. The rate coefficients are obtained directly from the first-order decay plots. They vary from 0.117 to 0.324 ps(-1). A Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel plot is found to exhibit good linearity.
19586849	Tillering is one of the most important agronomic traits of rice. In order to explore the molecular mechanism of rice tillering, a high-tillering dwarf 1-2 (htd1-2) mutant was isolated from the offspring of the indica rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica) variety 9311 treated with 350Gy 60Co gamma-radiation. Genetic analysis showed that both high tillering and dwarf phenotypes of htd1-2 were controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene. By means of molecular marker technique, the HIGH-TILLERING DWARF1-2(HTD1-2) gene was mapped between two CAPS markers A6 and E2 on chromosome 4 within 116 kilobases. Within this region, there is a cloned gene HIGH-TILLERING DWARF1(HTD1), which controls rice tillering. By comparing sequences of HTD1 between htd1-2 and 9311, in combination with the results from dCAPS analysis, we believed that HTD1 is an orthologue of the gene HTD1-2. Because of different genetic backgrounds, htd1 and htd1-2 have different phenotypes although they are the allelic mutants. Furthermore, removal of axillary buds proved that dwarfism of htd1-2 mutant is partly attributed to its excessive tillers.
19586854	This paper reviews the current status of correlation between rice chalkiness and other rice quality characters, formative mechanism, and classical and molecular genetics for rice chalkiness. The formation of rice chalkiness proves to be a complicated physiological process and tightly relate to "source-sink" of rice, dynamics of grain filing, biosynthesis and accumulation of starch in endosperm. Rice chalkiness is a complicated quantitative trait, which is controlled by maternal effects, endosperm effects, and cytoplasmic effects. There are some stable quantitative trait loci (QTL) for rice chalkiness on many rice chromosomes. Of them, three genes controlling rice chalkiness, which have an impact on starch synthesis, starch metabolism, and fruit development, have been cloned. But the manipulative network and formative mechanisms of rice chalkiness remain unclear. At present in breeding practice, decrease of rice chalkiness has become one of the main aims in rice quality breeding, especially for indica rice. The direction of genetic research and improvement strategy of rice chalkiness in future were discussed in this review.
19586880	Panicle exertion, the distance between the leaf cushion of flag and the neck-panicle node, is an important morphological trait, which has significant impact on hybrid seed production of rice. In this study, 94 chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSL), derived from 9311/Nipponbare with 9311 as the recurrent parent, were used to analyze quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling the panicle exertion. The results showed that 17 CSSL contained QTL for the panicle exertion. Using substitution mapping, 8 QTLs were mapped on rice chromosomes 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, and 11, respectively. The QTL additive effect ranged from 0.10 to 3.20, and the additive effects of qPE-9 and qPE-11 were 3.15 and 2.95, respectively, showing the feature of a major gene. In addition, qPE-2-2, qPE-3-1, qPE-3-2, qPE-7, and qPE-8 were mapped in a marker interval less than 10.0 cM. Mapping of the QTL has laid a foundation for improving the panicle exertion with marker-assisted selection and cloning of the QTL in rice.
19586895	The genetic diversity in 370 aromatic rice germplasms introduced from home and abroad, was investigated by using a total of 60 SSR markers. 361 alleles were detected, with the number of alleles (Na) per loci ranging from 2 to 10. The Nei's genetic diversity index (He) among loci varied widely from 0.104 at RM308 to 0.885 at RM2634 with an average value of 0.663. There was an obvious difference in SSR allelic diversity between indica and japonica rice. Indica rice showed more variation than japonica rice both for Na and He. Meanwhile, the genetic diversity of the landraces was higher than that of the improved varieties, and Na of the improved varieties was 86.5% of the landraces. Analysis of molecular variance indicated that 43.08% of the variation was from genetic differences between subspecies. It was also demonstrated that the genetic differentiation among different rice ecological regions ranged from 1.69% to 14.40%. There was significant differentiation between Southern China and Southwestern China, Central China and Southwestern China, respectively. Cluster analysis showed that 370 aromatic rice varieties were mainly classified into indica and japonica, and aromatic rice varieties from the same areas or the neighboring provinces were basically assigned to the same group.
19587102	Glycoside hydrolase family 1 (GH1) beta-glucosidases play roles in many processes in plants, such as chemical defense, alkaloid metabolism, hydrolysis of cell wall-derived oligosaccharides, phytohormone regulation, and lignification. However, the functions of most of the 34 GH1 gene products in rice (Oryza sativa) are unknown. Os3BGlu6, a rice beta-glucosidase representing a previously uncharacterized phylogenetic cluster of GH1, was produced in recombinant Escherichia coli. Os3BGlu6 hydrolyzed p-nitrophenyl (pNP)-beta-d-fucoside (k(cat)/K(m) = 67 mm(-1) s(-1)), pNP-beta-d-glucoside (k(cat)/K(m) = 6.2 mm(-1) s(-1)), and pNP-beta-d-galactoside (k(cat)/K(m) = 1.6 mm(-1)s(-1)) efficiently but had little activity toward other pNP glycosides. It also had high activity toward n-octyl-beta-d-glucoside and beta-(1-->3)- and beta-(1-->2)-linked disaccharides and was able to hydrolyze apigenin beta-glucoside and several other natural glycosides. Crystal structures of Os3BGlu6 and its complexes with a covalent intermediate, 2-deoxy-2-fluoroglucoside, and a nonhydrolyzable substrate analog, n-octyl-beta-d-thioglucopyranoside, were solved at 1.83, 1.81, and 1.80 A resolution, respectively. The position of the covalently trapped 2-F-glucosyl residue in the enzyme was similar to that in a 2-F-glucosyl intermediate complex of Os3BGlu7 (rice BGlu1). The side chain of methionine-251 in the mouth of the active site appeared to block the binding of extended beta-(1-->4)-linked oligosaccharides and interact with the hydrophobic aglycone of n-octyl-beta-d-thioglucopyranoside. This correlates with the preference of Os3BGlu6 for short oligosaccharides and hydrophobic glycosides.
19588119	Identification of genes in rice that affect production and quality is necessary for improving the critical global food source. CSSL58, a chromosome segment substitution line (CSSL) containing a chromosome segment of Oryza rufipogon in the genetic background of the indica cultivar Teqing showed significantly smaller panicles, fewer grains per panicle, smaller grains and dwarfness compared with the recurrent parent Teqing. Genetic analysis of the BC(4)F(1) and BC(4)F(2) generations, derived from a cross between CSSL58 and Teqing, showed that these traits are controlled by the recessive gene spd6, which mapped to the short arm of chromosome 6. Fine mapping and high-resolution linkage analysis using 24,120 BC(4)F(3) plants and markers flanking spd6 were carried out, and the gene was localized to a 22.4 kb region that contains four annotated genes according to the genome sequence of japonica Nipponbare. Phenotypic evaluation of the nearly isogenic line NIL(spd6) revealed that spd6 from wild rice has pleiotropic effects on panicle number per plant, grain size, grain weight, grain number per panicle and plant height, suggesting that this gene might play an important role in the domestication of rice. The discovery of spd6 may ultimately be useful for the design and breeding of crops with high grain yield and quality.
19588255	The objectives of this study were to determine the genetic structure of 242 accessions from the EMBRAPA Rice Core Collection (ERiCC), to create a mini-core collection and to develop a multiplex panel of fluorescent labeled simple sequence repeats (SSRs). Eighty-six SSRs were used to identify 1,066 alleles, with an average number of 12.4 alleles/locus and average polymorphism information content (PIC)/locus of 0.75. A model-based clustering method recognized the structure of the accessions on two levels, according to their cultivation system and origin. The most divergent subgroup identified was the worldwide lowland accessions, with the highest values for gene diversity (0.75), average Rogers distance modified by Wright (0.80), average number of alleles/locus (11.7) and private alleles (132). A mini-core was assembled with the most divergent 24 lowland and upland accessions. This mini-core displayed an average distance of 0.86, an average number of alleles/locus of 8.4 and an average PIC/locus of 0.8. From the 86 SSRs, 24 were selected to compose six multiplex panels in order to optimize the process of rice genotyping. This set of markers distinguished all 242 accessions, and showed an average PIC of 0.80 and an average number of alleles/locus of 15.4, higher than the entire set of 86 SSRs. Since the heterogeneity found in lines and cultivars of ERiCC was higher than expected, it is necessary to analyze pooled DNA samples to get a better estimate of genetic variability. The SSR characterization of ERiCC clearly indicates that there is high genetic variability in rice accessions stored in genebanks worldwide which can be promptly explored by rice pre-breeding programs.
19588843	Yusho PCB poisoning occurred in 1968, when the human environment had been polluted with PCBs and related compounds. The causal rice oil was contaminated with large amounts of PCBs and PCDFs by accidental leakage at the rice oil producing Kanemi Company on February 7-15, 1968. Much less concentrations of PCBs were identified in the rice oil produced and shipped from the Company before and after the critical days. Concentration trend of PCBs and TEQ in human body were examined for 40 years from 1968 to present. Concentrations in the blood of heavily exposed Yusho patients and normal Japanese were PCBs : 80 and 1.5 microg/g-fat, and TEQ : 60 and 0.1 ng/g-fat, respectively, in 1969, and decreased to PCBs : 1 and 0.2 microg/g-fat, and TEQ : 0.5 and 0.02 ng/g-fat, respectively, in 2007. PCBs and PCDFs have been persistently retained in human body for 40 years. Serious cases of Yusho and Yucheng having very high PCB, PCDF concentrations in blood have suffered from severe chloracne, pigmentation, eye discharge and others at the first stage and recovered very slowly with a lapse of several years. However, their hormone mediated signs and symptoms, such as high triglyceride and thyroxin levels in serum, disorder of immunoglobulin, goiter, decrease of sperm mobility, disorder of teeth and joints conditions, decrease of IQ score in children, headache and numbness, etc, are persisting for more than 30 years. The residents in East Slovakia who have been exposed to PCBs wasted from a PCB factory and have about 3 times higher blood PCB concentrations than the controls, have suffered from disorder of FT4 and T3 levels in serum, disorder of thyroid grand and thymus, dental defects in enamel developmental, hearing impairment at low frequency tone, tendency to diabetes and others. Residents in the Great Lakes area, USA, whose blood PCB levels are estimated to be higher than other places, have shown disorder of thyroid, T4, TSH levels, endometriosis, joint disorder, and low IQ score in children. The levels of PCBs and PCDFs in the blood of Yusho patients and Controls are compared to the normal levels of estradiol, testosterone and thyroxin. In the blood of Yusho patients, concentrations of single congeners of PCB118, PCB153, PCB156 and PentaCDF are high enough to disturb the hormonal effects. Blood PCB concentrations in normal Japanese are higher than the FT3 and FT4 levels, indicating hormonal disturbance will be easily produced. PCBs are metabolized to produce HO-PCBs, which bind to TTR and retain in blood medium. Blood HO-PCB concentrations in Yusho patients and normal persons are higher than the FT3, FT4 levels in serum. Therefore, the hormonal effects of thyroxin will be disturbed in Yusho and normal persons. As HO-PCB will be easily transferred to fetus through placenta, fetus development will be possible to be disturbed. In Yusho and other cases, PCBs and TEQ (PentaCDF, PCB118 etc) were ingested together and the strong enzyme inducers of PentaCDF and others have metabolized PCBs to HO-PCBs, which have retained in the blood. Complex reactions of PCDFs, PCBs and HO-PCBs have disturbed the hormonal effects and the induced symptoms and diseases would have been caused.
19588845	Since 1968, when the Yusho poisoning incident occurred, annual physical, dermatological, dental, and ophthalmological and laboratory examinations, collectively called Yusho health checks, have been conducted for Yusho patients. The Yusho incident was a health hazard caused by intake of rice-bran oil contaminated with PCB and PeCDF; therefore, since 2001 the levels of dioxins such as PeCDF in the blood have been measured in applicants. Here, we investigated correlations among findings from various medical examinations and those between those findings and PeCDF, PCB, and PCQ. Subjects were Yusho patients who underwent Yusho annual health checks and had their levels of PeCDF measured between 2001 and 2004. The results of 4 years of health checks of those who underwent the health checks for 2 years or longer were aggregated to extract representative inspection items by principal component analysis. We also investigated the presence or absence of correlations among these items and PeCDF, PCB, and PCQ levels in blood. Using 49 variables extracted by principal component analysis as objective variables, we determined that there were correlations between the following combinations: arthralgia, A/G ratio and PeCDF level, ophthalmological symptoms such as excessive eye discharge and PCB level, and total cholesterol, inferior gingival pigmentation and PCQ level.
19588849	Forty years have passed since the outbreak of Kanemi rice oil poisoning, namely, Yusho in the western Japan. However, even now the patients with Yusho have been still suffering from several objective and subjective symptoms. In order to improve or, if possible, to cure such symptoms, the most important therapeutic treatment is considered to actively excrete the causative agents, that is, polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) from the bodies of the patients and to reduce their body burdens. In rats, chlorophyll and dietary fiber have been shown to promote the fecal excretion of PCDFs and PCDDs and to reduce their levels in rats. In this study, we have examined whether such kinds of effect are also observed by fermented brown rice with Aspergillus oryzae (FBRA) containing 5% spirulina, which is so-called spirulina HI*GENKI, the health food and relatively rich with chlorophyll and dietary fiber, in eighteen patients with Yusho. They were divided into two groups, namely group A, ten patients (3 males and 7 females) with the mean age of 67.7 years old and group B, eight patients (4 males and 4 females) with the mean age of 64.1 years old. Respective mean concentrations of the three PCDF congeners, that is, 2,3,4,7,8-PenCDF, 1, 2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF and 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF in the blood on lipid weight basis just before initiating this study were as follows; group A: 413, 152 and 45.7 pg/g lipid, and group B: 151, 42.7 and 17.3 pg/g lipid. Contamination levels of these PCDF congeners in group A were 2.6 to 3.6 times higher than those in group B. In respective mean concentrations of PCDFs, PCDDs and PCDFs/DDs in both groups were as follows; group A: 228, 30.9 and 258 pg-TEQ/g lipid, and group B: 82.4, 19.7 and 102 pg-TEQ/g lipid. Contamination levels of PCDFs and PCDDs were around 2 times higher in group A than in group B. Group A took around 7.0 g of spirulina HI*GENKI after each meal and tree times a day for the first one year and for the second one year, they did not take spirulina HI*GENKI any more. Group B took spirulina HI*GENKI with the same manner as the group A only for the second one year. The concentrations of PCDFs and PCDDs in the blood of groups A and B were also measured at the end of the first and second year, respectively. Assuming the body fat is also contaminated with PCDFs and PCDDs at their concentrations on lipid weight basis in the blood and the content of body fat is 20% of 60 kg body weight, we computed the average amounts in the net excretion of PCDFs and PCDFs/DDs from the body of the patients due to the intake of spirulina HI*GENKI in groups A and B. As a result, in group A, 85.0 and 99.6 ng-TEQ/patient, respectively were excreted from the body of the patients. In group B, only 38.1 nd 40.0 ng-TEQ/patient were excreted. Accordingly, promotive excretion of PCDFs and PCDDs from the patients with Yusho seemed much effective in group A, of which their concentrations in the blood were much higher than those of group B.
19588917	Photodissociation of 3-bromo-1,1,1-trifluoro-2-propanol (BTFP) has been investigated at 193 nm, employing the laser photolysis laser-induced fluorescence technique. The nascent OH product was detected state selectively, and the energy released into translation, rotation, and vibration of the photoproducts has been measured. OH is produced mostly vibrationally cold, with a moderate rotational excitation, which is characterized by a rotational temperature of 640 +/- 140 K. However, an appreciable amount of the available energy of 36.1 kcal mol(-1) is released into translation of OH (15.1 kcal mol(-1)). OH product has no preference for a specific spin-orbit state, Pi(3/2) or Pi(1/2). However, between two Lambda-doublet states, Pi(+) and Pi(-), the OH product has a preference for the former by a factor of 2. A mechanism of OH formation from BTFP on excitation at 193 nm is proposed, which involves first the direct C-Br bond dissociation from a repulsive state (n(Br)sigma*(C-Br)) as a primary process. The primary product, F(3)C-CH(OH)-CH(2), with sufficient internal energy undergoes spontaneous C-OH bond dissociation, through a loose transition state. The formation rate of OH is calculated to be 5.8 x 10(6) s(-1) using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus unimolecular rate theory. Experimental results have been supported by theoretical calculations, and energies of various low-energy dissociation channels of the primary product, F(3)C-CH(OH)-CH(2), have been calculated.
19589068	Full-size ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters belonging to the ABCG subfamily are unique for plants and fungi. There is growing evidence that certain of these proteins play a role in plant defense or signaling systems. As yet, a complete set of full-size ABCG protein genes has been inventoried and classified in only two plants: Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. Recently, a domain-based clustering analysis has predicted the presence of at least 12 genes encoding such proteins in the Lotus japonicus genome. Here, we identify and classify 19 genes coding full-size ABCG proteins in Medicago truncatula, a model legume plant. We have found that the majority of these genes are expressed in roots and flowers whereas only a few are expressed in leaves. Expression of several has been induced upon pathogenic infection in both roots and leaves. ABCG messenger RNAs have been detected in root nodules forming during symbiosis of legume plants and nitrogen-fixing bacteria. The data presented provide a scaffold for further studies of the physiological function of Medicago ABCG transporters and their possible role in modulating plant-microorganism interactions.
19589673	Experiments were performed in an entrained flow reactor to better understand the characteristics of biomass gasification. Rice husk was used in this study. Effects of the gasification temperature (700, 800, 900 and 1000 degrees C) and the equivalence ratio in the range of 0.22-0.34 on the biomass gasification and the axial gas distribution in the reactor were studied. The results showed that reactions of CnHm were less important in the gasification process except cracking reactions which occurred at higher temperature. In the oxidization zone, reactions between char and oxygen had a more prevailing role. The optimal gasification temperature of the rice husk could be above 900 degrees C, and the optimal value of ER was 0.25. The gasification process was finished in 1.42 s when the gasification temperature was above 800 degrees C. A first order kinetic model was developed for describing rice husk air gasification characteristics and the relevant kinetic parameters were determined.
19590704	The aim of this study was to determine the effects of rice bran oil (RBO) on lipid metabolism and insulin resistance in rats with streptozotocin/nicotinamide-induced type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Rats were divided into two groups: the control group (15% soybean oil, contains 0 g gamma-oryzanol and 0 g gamma-tocotrienol/150 g oil for 5 weeks) and the RBO group (15% RBO, contains 5.25 g gamma-oryzanol and 0.9 g gamma-tocotrienol/150 g oil for 5 weeks). Compared with the control group, the RBO group had a lower plasma nonesterified fatty acid concentration, ratio of total to high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, hepatic cholesterol concentration, and area under the curve for insulin. The RBO group had a higher high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol concentration and greater excretion of fecal neutral sterols and bile acid than did the control group. RBO may improve lipid abnormalities, reduce the atherogenic index, and suppress the hyperinsulinemic response in rats with streptozotocin/nicotinamide-induced T2DM. In addition, RBO can lead to increased fecal neutral sterol and bile acid excretion.
19591194	Phanerochaete chrysosporium is a wood-rot fungus that is capable of degrading lignin via its lignolytic system. In this study, an environmentally friendly fungal pretreatment process that produces less inhibitory substances than conventional methods was developed using P. chrysosporium and then evaluated by various analytical methods. To maximize the production of manganese peroxidase, which is the primary lignin-degrading enzyme, culture medium was optimized using response surface methodologies including the Plackett-Burman design and the Box-Behnken design. Fermentation of 100 g of rice straw feedstock containing 35.7 g of glucan (mainly in the form of cellulose) by cultivation with P. chrysosporium for 15 days in the media optimized by response surface methodology was resulted in a yield of 29.0 g of glucan that had an enzymatic digestibility of 64.9% of the theoretical maximum glucose yield. In addition, scanning electronic microscopy, confocal laser scanning microscopy, and X-ray diffractometry revealed significant microstructural changes, fungal growth, and a reduction of the crystallinity index in the pretreated rice straw, respectively. When the fungal-pretreated rice straw was used as a substrate for ethanol production in simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) for 24 h, the ethanol concentration, production yield and the productivity were 9.49 g/L, 58.2% of the theoretical maximum, and 0.40 g/L/h, respectively. Based on these experimental data, if 100 g of rice straw are subjected to fungal pretreatment and SSF, 9.9 g of ethanol can be produced after 96 h, which is 62.7% of the theoretical maximum ethanol yield.
1959179	In this experimental study, grass carp were bred in rice field (1.9 fish/m2) to control mosquito larvae. 78 days after treatment, the larvae population of An. sinensis and Cu. tritaeniorhynchus dropped down by 87.4% and 80% respectively. Newly hatched 1-2 instar larvae accounted for 73.3% of the larvae remained in rice field after treatment. Eighty-nine samples of fish feces taken from rice field and 10 fishes were examined for breathing syphons of mosquito larvae. Breathing syphons were found in 22 fecal samples (24.7% positive) and 3 fishes (30% positive). The average number of mosquito larvae devoured by one fish was 861.5 in 24 hours in tap water and 661 in 24 hours in water containing grass and aquatic plants. The simulated field test showed that the average number of mosquito larvae devoured by fish was 362 larvae in 24 hours. The field trial indicated that the grass carp could not only cut down the mosquito larvae population but also benefit the peasants by increasing the production of both fish and rice.
19594149	Bioethanol is currently a significant gasoline additive and the major blend component of flex-fuel formulations. Ethanol is a high-octane fuel component, and vehicles designed to take advantage of higher octane fuel blends could operate at higher compression ratios than traditional gasoline engines, leading to improved performance and tank-to-wheel efficiency. There are significant uncertainties, however, regarding the mechanism for ethanol autoignition, especially at lower temperatures such as in the negative temperature coefficient (NTC) regime. We have studied an important chemical process in the autoignition and oxidation of ethanol, reaction of the alpha-hydroxyethyl radical with O2(3P), using first principles computational chemistry, variational transition state theory, and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM)/master equation simulations. The alpha-hydroxyethyl + O2 association reaction is found to produce an activated alpha-hydroxy-ethylperoxy adduct with ca. 37 kcal mol(-1) of excess vibrational energy. This activated adduct predominantly proceeds to acetaldehyde + HO(2), with smaller quantities of the enol vinyl alcohol (ethenol), particularly at higher temperatures. The reaction to acetaldehyde + HO2 proceeds with such a low barrier that collision stabilization of C2O3H5 isomers is unimportant, even for high-pressure/low-temperature conditions. The short lifetimes of these radicals precludes the chain-branching addition of a second O2 molecule, responsible for NTC behavior in alkane autoignition. This result helps to explain why ignition delays for ethanol are longer than those for ethane, despite ethanol having a weaker C-C bond energy. Given its relative instability, it is also unlikely that the alpha-hydroxy-ethylperoxy radical acts as a major acetaldehyde sink in the atmosphere, as has been suggested.
19594308	Pik-p is carried by cv. K60, which is one of the Japanese differentials widely used in both Japan and China since the 1980s. Its utility and specificity was evaluated with a total of 612 isolates of Magnaporthe oryzae collected from various regions in China in combination with 16 main resistance genes being used in the breeding programs. Pik-p is an independently and dominantly acting gene in the Pik cluster, which conditions differential reactions against many isolates and contains higher resistance in Guangdong, Jiangsu, and Sichuan provinces, China, indicating that this gene could be still used in these regions. A high-resolution genetic map of Pik-p was constructed using genomic position-ready markers. A set of 47 recombinants out of 681 F(2) plants derived from the crosses cv. K60 (resistant) x cv. AS20-1 (susceptible) and x cv. Kasalath (susceptible) was identified in the genetic interval defined by the markers RM5926 and K37 which flank the Pik gene cluster. This set was then genotyped with seven markers known to reside within the interval. The closest markers to Pik-p were K28 (approximately 0.60 centimorgans [cM]) and K39 (approximately 0.07 cM). A further four markers in the K28-K39 interval were developed from an in silico analysis based on the cv. Nipponbare genome sequence, and these all co-segregated with Pik-p. This 0.67-cM region is equivalent to a physical separation in cv. Nipponbare of approximately 126 kb, plus an as-yet-unfilled genomic gap of unknown length. Four nucleotide-binding site leucine-rich repeat-type resistance genes are present in this interval, and these represent good candidates for Pik-p.
19595505	The study reports the preparation of activated carbon with a high surface area from rice husk using chemical activation with H(3)PO(4) and ZnCl(2). Activated carbon prepared from rice husk usually exhibits low specific surface areas due to its high ash content. However, experimental results show that base-leaching and acid-washing processes can effectively enhance the adsorption capacity of rice-husk carbon. The study also investigates the effects of preparation parameters on the surface characteristics of the carbon. These parameters include the kind of activating agent, before and after treatment procedures, impregnation ratio and activation temperature. The chemical and physical properties of samples were examined by EA, ICP-MS, XRD, FTIR, SEM and a N(2)-adsorption meter. The surface areas obtained from ZnCl(2) and H(3)PO(4) activation are as high as 2434 and 1741 m(2)/g, respectively. These values are higher than that of activated carbon treated with neither base nor acid (1262 and 508 m(2)/g for ZnCl(2) and H(3)PO(4) activation). Thermogravimetric analysis shows that the activation process can be divided into three parts based on temperature zones. The results of this study will be useful in developing resource recovery systems for agricultural biomass.
19596512	Novel lightweight bricks have been produced by sintering mixes of dried water treatment sludge and rice husk. Samples containing up to 20 wt.% rice husk have been fired using a heating schedule that allowed effective organic burn-out. Rice husk addition increased the porosity of sintered samples and higher sintering temperatures increased compressive strengths. Materials containing 15 wt.% rice husk that were sintered at 1100 degrees C produced low bulk density and relatively high strength materials that were compliant with relevant Taiwan standards for use as lightweight bricks.
19596516	A field experiment was conducted to remove the potential eutrophication effect of P from rural wastewater (RW) during the whole rice growing season of 2007. The experiments consisted of five treatments, namely black water (BW), domestic wastewater (DW), grey water (GW), surface lake water (SW) and surface lake water without P application as a check (CK), with three replicates in a randomized block design. Commercial fertilizer and RW were applied to furnish 40 kg Pha(-1) except CK. Results showed total P (TP) concentration had significantly declined after P application, from October 15 there were no significant increases in TP concentration in the floodwater. TP removal rates from RW was significantly higher (P<or=0.05) than those from fertilizer. TP load was in an overall gradual decline, whereupon it became approximately steady on October 1. The percentage of TP load from wastewater decreased, whereas that from fertilizer continued to increase. Meanwhile, the yield for CK was significantly less (P<or=0.05) than SW, GW, DW, and BW, with the yield of BW significantly greater (P<or=0.05) than other treatments. It is feasible to remove P from RW by the paddy-rice-wetland system and can be widely used to improve the yield of rice.
19597147	Rice, the primary source of dietary calories for half of humanity, is the first crop plant for which a high-quality reference genome sequence from a single variety was produced. We used resequencing microarrays to interrogate 100 Mb of the unique fraction of the reference genome for 20 diverse varieties and landraces that capture the impressive genotypic and phenotypic diversity of domesticated rice. Here, we report the distribution of 160,000 nonredundant SNPs. Introgression patterns of shared SNPs revealed the breeding history and relationships among the 20 varieties; some introgressed regions are associated with agronomic traits that mark major milestones in rice improvement. These comprehensive SNP data provide a foundation for deep exploration of rice diversity and gene-trait relationships and their use for future rice improvement.
19597313	We isolated nine endophytic fungi from the roots of saltstressed soybean cultivar Daewonkong and screened them for growth-promoting secondary metabolites. Of all fungal isolates, P-4-3 induced maximum growth promotion of waito-c rice and soybean. Analysis of the culture filtrate of P-4-3 showed the presence of physiologically active gibberellins GA1, GA3, GA4, and GA7, along with physiologically inactive GA15 and GA24. The plant growth promotion and gibberellinproducing capacity of P-4-3 was much higher than wildtype Gibberella fujikuroi, which was taken as the control during the present study. The fungal isolate P-4-3 was identified as a new strain of Scolecobasidium tshawytschae through the morphological characteristics and phylogenetic analysis of 18S rDNA sequence. Gibberellins production and plant growth promoting ability of genus Scolecobasidium was reported for the first time in the present study.
1959761	To investigate the increase of glycemia due to the ingestion of usual food in Mexico, portions with 50 g of carbohydrate form white corn tortilla, yellow corn tortilla, spaghetti, rice, potatoes, beans brown and black, nopal (prickle pear cactus) and peanuts, compared with white bread, were given to 21 healthy and 27 non-insulin-dependent diabetic subjects. Serum glucose and insulin were measured every 30 min for 180 min long. Glycemic index was obtained as: (area under curve of glucose with test food/area under curve of glucose with white bread) X 100. A corrected index was calculated subtracting the area corresponding to initial values. Insulin index was obtained similarly. Each sample was studied 14-18 times. Glycemic and insulin indexes of white and yellow corn tortilla, spaghetti, rice and potatoes were not different from bread (P greater than 0.05). Corrected glycemic indexes of brown beans (54 +/- 15, +/- SE) and black beans (43 +/- 17) were low (p less than 0.05), as well as corrected insulin indexes (69 +/- 11 and 64 +/- 10 respectively, (P less than 0.02). Peanuts had low glycemic (33 +/- 17, P less than 0.01), but normal insulin index. Nopal had very low glycemic and insulin indexes (10 +/- 17 and 10 +/- 16, P less than 0.0001). These data might be useful in prescribing diets for diabetic subjects.
19597946	To reutilize rice straw generated during the agricultural production process, the actinomycete strain C-5 was isolated from soil that was under the stook for several years in the Heilongjiang province of China by using multiple selective culture media. Strain C-5 was identified as Streptomyces griseorubens by China General Microbiological Culture Collection Center (CGMCC) through morphological and physiological characterization combined with the result of 16S rRNA gene sequence and data analysis. This strain has simultaneous cellulase, laccase, peroxidase, xylanase and pectinase activity. The various chemical composition of rice straw were determined during fermentation process. Simultaneously the biodegradation process of rice straw stem was observed by scanning electron microscope (SEM). It is predicted that strain C-5 could decompose rice straw effectively and had promising prospects of being applied in improving the resource utilization of rice straw.
19597956	The increasing demand for fishery products and the technical and commercial opportunities now available make the development of aquaculture an important subject for the policy of the fishery sector, in particular concerning aspects of its environmental and ecological sustainability. The latest studies show that it is possible to apply an ecological approach to the aquaculture sector and hence increase the interactions between fisheries and other activities such as fish/molluscs, fish/seaweed, rice-growing/fish. In this way we take part in the improvement of the environment thanks to the recycling of organic food, the reduction of pesticide use and the control of environmental euthrophication. In order to support and facilitate trade, but at the same time ensure the safety and quality of products, a harmonization of the policies for food safety protecting the products throughout the whole food chain is required (from the sea to the table). The above mentioned policy, based on scientific knowledge, relies on the analysis of risks from the competent Authorities and on the proper application of HACCP from the industries of the sector.
19597990	There has been some concern about the environmental impact of microbial agents. Pseudomonas may be used as bioremediator and as biopesticide. In this study, we report the use of soil enzyme assays as biological indicator of possible negative effects in soil functioning after the P. putida AF7 inoculation. For that, P. putida AF7 was originally isolated from the rizosphere of rice and was inoculated on three soil types: Rhodic Hapludox (RH), Typic Hapludox (TH); and Arenic Hapludult (AH). The acid phosphatase, beta-glucosidase and protease enzymes activities were measured for three period of evaluation (7, 14 and 21 days). In general, the enzymatic activities presented variation among the tested soils. The highest activities of beta-glucosidase and acid phosphatase were observed in the RH and AH soils, while the protease activity was higher in the TH soil. Also, the soil characteristics were measured for each plot. The activity of enzymes from the carbon cycle was positively correlated with the N and the P and the enzyme from the nitrogen cycle was negatively correlated with N and C.org. The presented data indicate that soil biochemical properties can be an useful tool for use as an indicator of soil perturbations by microbial inoculation in a risk assessment.
19602498	The paper derives a simple way to calculate the linear relationships between all separable groups of rate constants for de-excitation of Chl a excitation energy. This is done by comparison of the inverse values of chlorophyll fluorescence intensities and is based on the matrix model of Kitajima and Butler and on the lake model of energy exchange among PSII centers. Compared with the outputs of earlier, similar calculations, the results presented here add some linear comparisons of the relative sizes of rate constants without the need for F(0)' measurement. This enables us to regenerate the same alternative formula to calculate q(L) as presented previously, in a different and simple form. The same former equation to calculate F(0)' value from F(m), F(m)' and F(0) values is also regenerated in our calculation system in a simple form. We also apply relaxation analysis to separate the rate constant for non-photochemical quenching (k(NPQ)) into the rate constant for a fast-relaxing non-photochemical quenching (k(fast)) and the rate constant for slow-relaxing non-photochemical quenching (k(slow)). Changes in the sizes of rate constants were measured in Arabidopsis thaliana and in rice.
19602720	Coronary heart disease, hypertension, and dyslipidemia are highly prevalent and commonly coexist in people who are middle-aged and older. Previous data suggested that lowering cholesterol concentrations in individuals at high risk of cardiovascular disease improved clinical outcomes. Xuezhikang, a partial extract of red yeast rice containing statin, has a marked impact on lipids. The purpose of this study, therefore, was to evaluate the impact of Xuezhikang on reducing cardiovascular events and mortality in elderly Chinese hypertensive patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI) enrolled in the Chinese Coronary Secondary Prevention Study. In this randomized trial, 1530 elderly hypertensive patients (> or = 65-years-old) with previous MI were assigned either to placebo (n = 758) or to Xuezhikang (n = 772) daily for an average of 4.5 years. The primary endpoint was recurrent coronary events; the secondary endpoint was all-cause mortality and other clinical events, including adverse effects. There were 68 cases of coronary events (8.8%) detected in the Xuezhikang group and 108 cases (14.3%) in the placebo group (38.2% risk reduction by Xuezhikang therapy). Death from coronary heart disease (CHD) totaled 49 cases in the Xuezhikang group (6.4%) and 68 cases in the placebo group (9.0%), indicating that Xuezhikang significantly decreased the risk of CHD death by 29.2%. Our study demonstrated that Xuezhikang therapy could effectively and safely reduce cardiovascular events and all-cause death in Chinese elderly hypertensive patients with previous MI. This finding may have an important implication for the treatment of elderly hypertensive patients with CHD.
19603144	Rice architecture is an important agronomic trait that affects grain yield. We characterized a tillering dwarf mutant d88 derived from Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cultivar Lansheng treated with EMS. The mutant had excessive shorter tillers and smaller panicles and seeds compared to the wild-type. A reduction in number and size of parenchyma cells around stem marrow cavity as well as a delay in the elongation of parenchyma cells caused slender tillers and dwarfism in the d88 mutant. The D88 gene was isolated via map-based cloning and identified to encode a putative esterase. The gene was expressed in most rice organs, with especially high levels in the vascular tissues. The mutant carried a nucleotide substitution in the first exon of the gene that led to the substitution of arginine for glycine, which presumably disrupted the functionally conserved N-myristoylation domain of the protein. The function of the gene was confirmed by complementation test and antisense analysis. D88, thus, represents a new category of genes that regulates cell growth and organ development and consequently plant architecture. The potential relationship between the tiller formation associated genes and D88 is discussed and future identification of the substrate for D88 may lead to the characterization of new pathways regulating plant development.
19603477	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) accumulates large amounts of silicon which improves its growth and health due to enhanced resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses. Silicon uptake and loading to xylem in rice are predominantly active processes performed by transporters encoded by the recently identified genes Lsi1 (Si influx transporter gene) and Lsi2 (Si efflux transporter gene). Silicon deposition in rice during translocation to upper plant tissues is known to discriminate against the heavier isotopes (29)Si and (30)Si, resulting in isotope fractionation within the plant. We analyzed straw and husk samples of rice mutants defective in Lsi1, Lsi2 or both for silicon content and delta(29)Si using isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS) and compared these results with those for the corresponding wild-type varieties (WT). The silicon content was higher in husk than in straw. All the mutant rice lines showed clearly lower silicon content than the WT lines (4-23% Si of WT). The delta(29)Si was lower in straw and husk for the uptake defective mutant (lsi1) than for WT, albeit delta(29)Si was 0.3 per thousand higher in husk than in straw in both lines. The effect of defective efflux (lsi2) differed for straw and husk with higher delta(29)Si in straw, but lower delta(29)Si in husk while WT showed similar delta(29)Si in both fractions. These initial results show the potential of Si isotopes to enlighten the influence of active uptake on translocation and deposition processes in the plant.
19603649	Volatile fatty acids (VFAs), the carbon source of biological nutrients removal, can be produced by waste activated sludge (WAS) anaerobic fermentation. However, because of high protein content and low carbon to nitrogen mass ratio (C/N) of WAS, the production of VFAs, especially propionic acid, a more preferred VFA than acetic acid for enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EBPR), is limited. After the addition of carbohydrate (rice was used as the model matter) to the WAS anaerobic fermentation system to balance the C/N ratio, the effect of pH on WAS protein conversion and VFAs production was investigated in this paper. Experimental results showed that the addition of carbohydrate matter caused a remarkable enhancement of WAS protein conversion and protease activity, and an apparent synergistic effect between WAS and carbohydrate matter was observed. The study of pH effect revealed that pH influenced not only the total VFAs production but the percentage of individual VFA. The maximal VFAs production (520.1 mg COD per gram of volatile suspended solids (VSS)) occurred at pH 8.0 and a fermentation time of 8 d, which was more than three times that at uncontrolled pH (150.2 mg COD/g VSS). The analysis of the composition of VFAs showed that propionic acid ranked first at pH 6.0-9.0 (around 50%) whereas acetic acid was the dominant product at other pHs investigated. Thus, the suitable conditions for propionic acid-enriched VFAs production were pH 8.0 and a time of 8 d. Further investigation showed that as there was more fermentation substrate consumption with lower biogas generation at pH 8.0, improved VFAs production was observed. Also, the key enzymes relevant to propionic acid formation exhibited the highest activities at pH 8.0, which resulted in the greatest propionic acid content in the fermentative VFAs. The 16S rRNA gene clone library demonstrated that Clostridia, beta-Proteobacteria, and Bacteroidetes were the dominant microbial community when the current anaerobic fermentation system was operated at pH 8.0. With the fermentative VFAs as the additional carbon source of municipal wastewater, the EBPR performance was significantly increased.
19604367	Magnaporthe oryzae, rice blast fungus, is the most devastating pathogen of rice. It has emerged as a model phytopathogen for the study of host-pathogen interactions. A large body of data has been generated on different aspects of biology of this fungus and on host-pathogen interactions. However, most of the data is scattered and is not available as a single resource for researchers in this field. Genomic Resources of Magnaporthe oyzae (GROMO), is a specialized, and comprehensive database for rice blast fungus, integrating information from several resources. GROMO contains information on genomic sequence, mutants available, gene expression, localization of proteins obtained from a variety of repositories, as primary data. In addition, prediction of domains, pathways, protein-protein interactions, sumolyation sites and biochemical properties that were obtained after computational analysis of protein sequences have also been included as derived data. This database has an intuitive user interface that shall prompt the user to explore various possible information resources available on a given gene or a protein, from a single source. Currently, information on M. oryzae is available from different resources like BROAD MIT Magnaporthe database, Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT) M. oryzae database, Magnaporthe grisea--Oryza sativa (MGOS) and Massive Parallel Signature Sequencing (MPSS) databases. In the GROMO project, an effort has been made to integrate information from all these databases, derive some new data based on the available information analyzed by relevant programs and make more insightful predictions to better understand the biology of M. oryzae. The database is currently available at: http://gromo.msubiotech.ac.in/
19604382	mPing is an endogenous MITE in the rice genome, which is quiescent under normal conditions but can be induced towards mobilization under various stresses. The cellular mechanism responsible for modulating the activity of mPing remains unknown. Cytosine methylation is a major epigenetic modification in most eukaryotes, and the primary function of which is to serve as a genome defense system including taming activity of transposable elements (TEs). Given that tissue-culture is capable of inducing both methylation alteration and mPing transposition in certain rice genotypes, it provides a tractable system to investigate the possible relationship between the two phenomena. mPing transposition and cytosine methylation alteration were measured in callus and regenerated plants in three rice (ssp. indica) genotypes, V14, V27 and R09. All three genotypes showed transposition of mPing, though at various frequencies. Cytosine methylation alteration occurred both at the mPing-flanks and at random loci sampled globally in callus and regenerated plants of all three genotypes. However, a sharp difference in the changing patterns was noted between the mPing-flanks and random genomic loci, with a particular type of methylation modification, i.e., CNG hypermethylation, occurred predominantly at the mPing-flanks. Pearson's test on pairwise correlations indicated that mPing activity is positively correlated with specific patterns of methylation alteration at random genomic loci, while the element's immobility is positively correlated with methylation levels of the mPing's 5'-flanks. Bisulfite sequencing of two mPing-containing loci showed that whereas for the immobile locus loss of CG methylation in the 5'-flank was accompanied by an increase in CHG methylation, together with an overall increase in methylation of all three types (CG, CHG and CHH) in the mPing-body region, for the active locus erasure of CG methylation in the 5'-flank was not followed by such a change. Our results documented that tissue culture-induced mPing activity in rice ssp. indica is correlated with alteration in cytosine methylation patterns at both random genomic loci and the elements' flanks, while the stability of mPing positively correlates with enhanced methylation levels of both the flanks and probably the elements per se. Thus, our results implicate a possible role of cytosine methylation in maintaining mPing stability under normal conditions, and in releasing the element's activity as a consequence of epigenetic perturbation in a locus-specific manner under certain stress conditions.
19604400	Physical maps have been historically one of the cornerstones of genome sequencing and map-based cloning strategies. They also support marker assisted breeding and EST mapping. The problem of building a high quality physical map is computationally challenging due to unavoidable noise in the input fingerprint data. We propose a novel compartmentalized method for the assembly of high quality physical maps from fingerprinted clones. The knowledge of genetic markers enables us to group clones into clusters so that clones in the same cluster are more likely to overlap. For each cluster of clones, a local physical map is first constructed using FingerPrinted Contigs (FPC). Then, all the individual maps are carefully merged into the final physical map. Experimental results on the genomes of rice and barley demonstrate that the compartmentalized assembly produces significantly more accurate maps, and that it can detect and isolate clones that would induce "chimeric" contigs if used in the final assembly. The software is available for download at http://www.cs.ucr.edu/~sbozdag/assembler/
19604692	A "temperature-shift" strategy was developed to improve reducing sugar production from bacterial hydrolysis of cellulosic materials. In this strategy, production of cellulolytic enzymes with Cellulomonas uda E3-01 was promoted at a preferable temperature (35 degrees C), while more efficient enzymatic cellulose hydrolysis was achieved under an elevated culture temperature (45 degrees C), at which cell growth was inhibited to avoid consumption of reducing sugar. This temperature-shift strategy was shown to markedly increase the reducing sugar (especially, monosaccharide and disaccharide) concentration in the hydrolysate while hydrolyzing pure (carboxymethyl-cellulose, xylan, avicel and cellobiose) and natural (rice husk, rice straw, bagasse and Napier-grass) cellulosic materials. The cellulosic hydrolysates from CMC and xylan were successfully converted to H(2) via dark fermentation with Clostridium butyricum CGS5, attaining a maximum hydrogen yield of 4.79 mmol H(2)/g reducing sugar.
19605415	Rice glutelin RNAs are localized to the cisternal endoplasmic reticulum (ER) by a regulated RNA transport process requiring specific cis-localization elements. We set out to identify these glutelin sequences by their dominant character of being able to re-direct the normal protein body ER localization of a maize 10 kDa delta-zein RNA to the cisternal ER. In situ RNA localization analysis showed that the glutelin RNA contains multiple cis-localization elements; two located at the 5' and 3' ends of the coding sequences and a third located within the 3'-untranslated region. These three regions contain two conserved sequences, suggesting that these RNA recognition signals may be sequence based.
19605549	The antagonistic interaction between iron (Fe) and phosphorus (P) has been noted in the area of plant nutrition. To understand the physiology and molecular mechanisms of this interaction, we studied the growth performance, nutrient concentration, and gene expression profiles of root and shoot segments derived from 10-d-old rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings under four different nutrient conditions: (1) full strength of Fe and P (+Fe+P); (2) full strength of P and no Fe (-Fe+P); (3) full strength of Fe and no P (+Fe-P); and (4) without both Fe and P (-Fe-P). While removal of Fe in the growth medium resulted in very low shoot and root Fe concentrations, the chlorotic symptoms and retarded seedling growth were only observed on seedlings grown in the presence of P. Microarray data showed that in roots, 7,628 transcripts were significantly changed in abundance in the absence of Fe alone. Interestingly, many of these changes were reversed if P was also absent (-Fe-P), with only approximately 15% overlapping with -Fe alone (-Fe+P). Analysis of the soluble Fe concentration in rice seedling shoots showed that P deficiency resulted in significantly increased Fe availability within the plants. The soluble Fe concentration under -Fe-P conditions was similar to that under +Fe+P conditions. These results provide evidence that the presence of P can affect Fe availability and in turn can influence the regulation of Fe-responsive genes.
19605550	Microarray data can be used to derive understanding of the relationships between the genes involved in various biological systems of an organism, given the availability of databases of gene expression measurements from the complete spectrum of experimental conditions and materials. However, there have been no reports, to date, of such a database being constructed for rice (Oryza sativa). Here, we describe the construction of such a database, called RiceArrayNet (RAN; http://www.ggbio.com/arraynet/), which provides information on coexpression between genes in terms of correlation coefficients (r values). The average number of coexpressed genes is 214, with sd of 440 at r >or= 0.5. Given the correlation between genes in a gene pair, the degrees of closeness between genes can be visualized in a relational tree and a relational network. The distribution of correlated genes according to degree of stringency shows how each gene is related to other genes. As an application of RAN, the 16-member L7Ae ribosomal protein family was explored for coexpressed genes and gene expression values within and between rice and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and common and unique features in coexpression partners and expression patterns were observed for these family members. We observed a correlation pattern between Os01g0968800, a drought-responsive element-binding transcription factor, Os02g0790500, a trehalose-6-phosphate synthase, and Os06g0219500, a small heat shock factor, reflecting the fact that genes responding to the same biological stresses are regulated together. The RAN database can be used as a tool to gain insight into a particular gene by examining its coexpression partners.
19605569
19605702	A Gram-negative, rod-shaped, purple non-sulfur bacterial strain, designated JA415T, was isolated from the mud of a pokkali rice field located on Vypeen Island, Ernakulam, Kerala, India. Strain JA415T was motile by means of a single polar flagellum. Photo- and chemo-organoheterotrophic growth was observed using organic compounds as carbon sources and electron donors. Photo- and chemolithoautotrophic growth using thiosulfate as electron donor did not occur. Fermentative growth could not be demonstrated. Intracellular photosynthetic membranes were lamellar stacks parallel to the cytoplasmic membrane. Bacteriochlorophyll a and carotenoids of the spirilloxanthin series were present as photosynthetic pigments. Niacin, pantothenate and p-aminobenzoate were required as growth factors. C18:1omega7c was the predominant cellular fatty acid component. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain JA415T clustered with members of the genus Rhodoplanes in the class Alphaproteobacteria. On the basis of phenotypic and molecular genetic evidence, it is proposed that strain JA415T be classified as a representative of a novel species of the genus Rhodoplanes, family Hyphomicrobiaceae, with the name Rhodoplanes pokkaliisoli sp. nov. The type strain is JA415T (=KCTC 5711T=NBRC 104972T).
19606866	A slurry sampling inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) method has been developed for the determination of As, Cd, and Hg in cereals using flow injection chemical vapor generation (VG) as the sample introduction system. A slurry containing 6% m/v flour, 0.7% m/v thiourea, 0.4 microg mL(-1) Co(II), and 2.5% v/v HCl was injected into a VG-ICP-MS system for the determination of As, Cd, and Hg without dissolution and mineralization. Because the sensitivities of the elements studied in the slurry and that of aqueous solution were quite different, a standard addition method and an isotope dilution method were used for the determination of As, Cd, and Hg in selected cereal samples. The influences of vapor generation conditions and slurry preparation on the ion signals were reported. The effectiveness of the vapor generation sample introduction technique in alleviating various spectral interferences in ICP-MS analysis has been demonstrated. This method has been applied for the determination of As, Cd, and Hg in NIST SRM 1567a Wheat Flour reference material, NIST SRM 1568a Rice Flour reference material, and cereal samples obtained from local market. The As, Cd, and Hg analysis results of the reference materials agreed with the certified values. The method detection limits estimated from standard addition curves were about 0.10, 0.16, and 0.07 ng g(-1) for As, Cd, and Hg, respectively, in the original cereal samples.
19607679	The Osa1 Genome Annotation of rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare) is the product of a semi-automated pipeline that does not explicitly predict pseudogenes. As such, it is likely to mis-annotate pseudogenes as functional genes. A total of 22,033 gene models within the Osa1 Release 5 were investigated as potential pseudogenes as these genes exhibit at least one feature potentially indicative of pseudogenes: lack of transcript support, short coding region, long untranslated region, or, for genes residing within a segmentally duplicated region, lack of a paralog or significantly shorter corresponding paralog. A total of 1,439 pseudogenes, identified among genes with pseudogene features, were characterized by similarity to fully-supported gene models and the presence of frameshifts or premature translational stop codons. Significant difference in the length of duplicated genes within segmentally-duplicated regions was the optimal indicator of pseudogenization. Among the 816 pseudogenes for which a probable origin could be determined, 75% originated from gene duplication events while 25% were the result of retrotransposition events. A total of 12% of the pseudogenes were expressed. Finally, F-box proteins, BTB/POZ proteins, terpene synthases, chalcone synthases and cytochrome P450 protein families were found to harbor large numbers of pseudogenes. These pseudogenes still have a detectable open reading frame and are thus distinct from pseudogenes detected within intergenic regions which typically lack definable open reading frames. Families containing the highest number of pseudogenes are fast-evolving families involved in ubiquitination and secondary metabolism.
1960771	In the People's Republic of China, as in the West, diet has emerged as an important determinant of morbidity and mortality. In order to provide one of the bases for designing nutrition education, two nutrition knowledge-attitudes-practices surveys of adults aged 18-55 were conducted in 1989 in an urban (N = 1004) and a rural (N = 506) area of Sichuan. Nutrition knowledge levels were low in both sites, but lower in the rural site. Certain general nutrition concepts, such as the value of a varied diet, were reported correctly by over 50 per cent of the population in both areas. However, less than 10 per cent of the urban residents and only 3 per cent of the rural residents reported taking correct measures to prevent or delay cancer or heart disease. Dietary practices, elicited by a food frequency questionnaire, revealed large differences in consumption habits in the two areas. More than half of the urban respondents reported eating rice, vegetable oil, green vegetables, lean meat, and wheat on a daily basis, and other vegetables, pickles, fruit, eggs, soybean products, and meat fat on at least a weekly basis. However, the rural respondents reported eating only rice, vegetable oil, green vegetables, and other vegetables on a daily basis, and no additional foods on a weekly basis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
19609033	Carbon nanotube (CNT) gel, which is composed of a mixture of single-wall CNT, an ionic liquid, and a thermostable D-proline dehydrogenase (D-Pro DH) immobilized electrode was utilized for the determination of D-amino acids (DAAs) in food samples. When a critical comparison with CNT, Ketjen Black (KB), and carbon powder (CP) was also carried out, the CNT/D-Pro DH immobilized electrode showed the highest sensitivity and the lowest detection limit of D-proline. In addition, the CNT/D-Pro DH immobilized electrode was applied to detection of DAAs in rice wine and vinegar samples. The concentrations of DAAs in rice wine and vinegar samples were 0.0210 +/- 0.0001 and 0.55 +/- 0.05 mmol L(-1), respectively.
19609477	Among sulfonylurea herbicides, metsulfuron-methyl [methyl 2-(4-methoxy-6-methyl-1,3,5-triazine-2-ylcarbamoylsulfamoyl) benzoic acid] is widely used due to its selectivity against a wide range of weeds in cereal, pasture, and plantation crops. Use of persistent herbicides has increased risk of accumulation of residues in soil, groundwater, crop produce, food chain etc. Thus an experiment was conducted to see persistence of metsulfuron-methyl in paddy field under tropical conditions. Metsulfuron-methyl was applied at 2, 4, 5, and 8 a.i. g ha−1 rates after 25 days in transplanted rice as post emergence herbicide. Concentration of metsulfuron-methyl in soil at 30 days was found 0.008, 0.010, 0.011 and 0.016 μg g−1 at 2, 4, 5 and 8 g a.i. ha−1 application rates, respectively. However, residue level of metsulfuron-methyl in soil, rice grains and straw at harvest was found below 0.001 μg g−1.
19609592	This paper presents the occurrence, distribution, and environmental impact of pesticide residues in coastal water in southern Japan that receives effluents from a wastewater reservoir temporarily storing surface runoffs of rice paddy fields located near the coastline during the 2005 rice planting season. Concentrations of 14 target pesticides were measured by GC-MS and the hazards posed by the most important pesticides detected were evaluated by acute toxicity tests using a marine diatom, Chaetoceros sp., and a marine amphipod, Hyale barbicornis. Six pesticides (fenobucarb, flutolanil, iprobenfos, mefenacet, phthalide, pyriproxyfen) were detected in the coastal water, with three pesticides (fenobucarb, iprobenfos, and mefenacet) having 100% frequencies of detection. The maximum concentration of mefenacet, at 4.22 microg/L, was at least one magnitude higher than that of fenobucarb and iprobenfos, at 0.27 and 0.19 microg/L, respectively, while the three remaining pesticides had concentrations just around the detection limit of 0.01 microg/L. Consequently, detected concentrations of mefenacet were highly correlated with salinity levels, confirming that the wastewater reservoir is a major source of rice pesticide residues in this particular coastal environment. Hence, the spatial distribution of mefenacet was simulated using their relationship and the results indicate that mefenacet has a tendency to enter and spread to a relatively wide portion of the coastal area during the rice planting season. There is also a possibility that the other pesticides used in rice farming such as fenobucarb and iprobenfos may show similar distribution patterns in coastal waters when they are present in the wastewater reservoir at higher concentrations. These pesticides, however, manifested low acute toxicities to both Chaetoceros sp. and H. barbicornis, suggesting little impact to marine organisms.
19609685	Ankyrin repeat (ANK) containing proteins comprise a large protein family. Although many members of this family have been implicated in plant growth, development and signal transduction, only a few ANK genes have been reported in rice. In this study, we analyzed the structures, phylogenetic relationship, genome localizations and expression profiles of 175 ankyrin repeat genes identified in rice (OsANK). Domain composition analysis suggested OsANK proteins can be classified into ten subfamilies. Chromosomal localizations of OsANK genes indicated nine segmental duplication events involving 17 genes and 65 OsANK genes were involved in tandem duplications. The expression profiles of 158 OsANK genes were analyzed in 24 tissues covering the whole life cycle of two rice genotypes, Minghui 63 and Zhenshan 97. Sixteen genes showed preferential expression in given tissues compared to all the other tissues in Minghui 63 and Zhenshan 97. Nine genes were preferentially expressed in stamen of 1 day before flowering, suggesting that these genes may play important roles in pollination and fertilization. Expression data of OsANK genes were also obtained with tissues of seedlings subjected to three phytohormone (NAA, GA3 and KT) and light/dark treatments. Eighteen genes showed differential expression with at least one phytohormone treatment while under light/dark treatments, 13 OsANK genes showed differential expression. Our data provided a very useful reference for cloning and functional analysis of members of this gene family in rice.
19610344	This study was performed to develop a predictive model for the growth rate of Bacillus cereus in cooked rice. A response surface methodology (RSM) was used with a combination of storage temperature (10 to 40 degrees C) and pH value (5.4 to 6.8). The growth curves generated under different conditions were fitted using a modified Gompertz equation, and the relationship of the growth rate to the growth curves was modeled using an RSM quadratic polynomial equation. The predictive model was significant (P < 0.01), and the predicted values of the growth parameters obtained using the model equations were in close agreement with experimental values (R2 = 0.9864). The RSM evaluation for describing the growth rate of B. cereus involved both a bias factor (Bf) and an accuracy factor (Af). Both the Bf value (1.006) and the Af value (1.011) approached 1.0 and were within acceptable ranges. Therefore, the adequacy of the predictive model for B. cereus in cooked rice was verified by the validation data.
19610349	Penicillium islandicum produces luteoskyrin (LUT), a yellow rice toxin that has been found frequently in rice. However, conventional analytical methods for determining LUT are limited, are complicated, and exhibit low sensitivity. In this study, an analytical method more sensitive and simple based on high-performance liquid chromatography combined with electrospray ionization mass spectrometry was developed. The cleanup procedure of the method was one step, using a solid-phase extraction cartridge. An isocratic mobile-phase system, consisting of acetonitrile-water-acetic acid (50:49:1 [vol/vol/vol]) at a flow rate of 0.2 ml/min, was utilized to obtain the best resolution. Our method showed good linearity (r = 0.9993, 0.5 to 50 ng/g) and high repeatability (relative standard deviation = 8.9 and 5.1% at levels of 0.5 and 10 ng/g, respectively) in the fortification test. The detection and quantification limits for the method in multiple-reaction monitoring mode were 0.1 and 0.3 ng/g, respectively. The average recovery of LUT in spiked rice at 0.5 and 10 ng/g was 80.7 and 85.2%, respectively. The method developed in this study should be applicable to survey LUT in rice, with high sensitivity, selectivity, and rapidity.
19610350	Fumonisins are mycotoxins mainly produced by Fusarium verticillioides, which is a major contaminant of corn. However, there are sporadic reports of fumonisin contamination in wheat worldwide. The rice adherent fungus Gibberella fujikuroi is taxonomically closely related to F. verticillioides. Therefore, the potential risk of fumonisin contamination in rice and wheat is significant. Previously, a sensitive detection method utilizing liquid chromatography with tandem electrospray mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS-MS) was developed for the determination of fumonisins in brown rice. In the present study, the incidence of fumonisins in brown rice and wheat harvested in Japan was investigated using LC-ESI-MS-MS. Forty-eight rice samples and 47 wheat samples were screened and analyzed for the major B-type fumonisins: fumonisin B1 (FB1) and fumonisin B2 (FB2). About 1 kg of rice or wheat seed was divided into three subsamples, and 10 g from each subsample was used for the analysis. The limits of detection were 0.012 and 0.011 mg/kg for FBt and FB2, respectively, in rice samples and 0.010 and 0.008 mg/kg for FB1 and FB2, respectively, in wheat samples. The mean (standard deviation) recoveries of FB1 spiked at 0.50 mg/kg into toxin-free rice and wheat samples were 77.6 (4.2)% and 84.5 (3.1)%, respectively. One of the wheat samples was positive for FBt with a value greater than the limit of detection,but no fumonisin was found in any of the rice samples. This is the first report of fumonisins detected in Japanese wheat.
19610437	Asiatic rice borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), is a cosmopolitan and destructive pest in rice fields of the world. This pest was reported in 1973 in Iran, and it has since spread widely in rice, Oryza sativa L., fields throughout the country. In this study, we tried to evaluate comparative toxicity of diazinon in five colonies of C. suppressalis, collected from Babol (Ba), Amol (Am) of Mazandaran Province and Rasht (Ra), Sheikhmahale (Sh), and Gourabzarmikh (Go) of Guilan Province, northern Iran. The LD50 values were compared. We also evaluated the general esterases, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), glutathione transferase (GST), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities from the five populations. The LD50 values of Ra, Ba, Am, and Sh (12.64, 11.4, 7.17, and 3.71 microg/mg larva(-1)) were 13.67-, 12.33-, 7.75-, and 4.02-fold higher than Go population (0.924 microg/mg larva(-1)). Using alpha-naphthyl acetate as substrate, the general esterase activities in Ra, Ba, Am, and Sh colonies were, respectively, 1.81-, 1.68-, 1.75-, and 1.35-fold more than those in Go population. When beta-naphthyl acetate was used as the substrate, activity ratio was measured 1.98-, 2.58-, 1.25-, and 1.24-fold compared with the Go population. Glutathione transferase activities in Ra, Ba, Am, and Sh populations were 1.27-, 1.68-, 0.98-, and 1.7-fold more than those in Go, when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as the substrate. When 1,2-dichloro-4-nitro-benzene was used as the substrate, activity ratio was measured 1.14-, 1.42-, 0.56-, and 0.95-fold compared with Go population. The ALP activity demonstrated a significant difference among these populations and in Ra, Ba, Am, and Sh larvae were 3.54-, 4.62-, 3.84-, and 2.18-fold more than Go. The AChE inhibition or I50 value was 0.19, 0.22, 0.31, 0.19, and 0.26 mM in Ra, Ba, Am, Sh and Go populations, respectively. However, the results showed no significant differences in studied colonies. These biochemical characterizations of general esterases ALP, GST, and AChE were consistent with diazinon bioassay in the five populations. It is inferred from increased esterase, alkaline phosphatase and glutathione transferase, activities that might play an important role in the increasing resistance in C. suppressalis to diazinon among these five populations.
19615346	Activation of phospholipase A(2), degradation of membrane phospholipids resulting in tissue accumulation of arachidonic acid, and the activation of cyclooxygenase that leads to the formation of prostaglandin and free radicals may occur after hypoxic-ischemic damage. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of indomethacin, a nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitor, on caspase activity, glutathione levels and lipid peroxidation in newborn rats with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. The effects of indomethacin were evaluated by measuring caspase-3 and caspase-8 activities and glutathione levels. Lipid peroxidation was evaluated by measuring concentrations of malondialdehyde in rat brains. Seven-day-old rat pups with the Levine-Rice model of hypoxic-ischemic cerebral injury were randomly divided into three study groups. In the indomethacin-treated group, rats were administered three doses of indomethacin, at a dose of 2 mg/kg every 12 h. Sham and the hypoxic-ischemic group of rats were given physiologic saline. The sham group underwent all surgical procedures except for arterial ligation. After 72 hours, the rats were decapitated and brain tissues were evaluated. Caspase-3 and caspase-8 activities and glutathione and malondialdehyde levels were evaluated in all groups. There was an obvious decrease in caspase-3 and caspase-8 activities and depleted glutathione levels were reversed in the indomethacin-treated group compared to the hypoxic-ischemia group (p<0.001). As indomethacin was unable to prevent lipid peroxidation, malondialdehyde concentrations increased to ischemia-induced levels. In conclusion, indomethacin administration after hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy injury has a neuroprotective effect since it inhibits caspase activity and reverses the depletion of glutathione. However, it also aggravates lipid peroxidation-induced ischemia.
19616207	The main focus of this study was to evaluate the long-term effects of Cd on forearm bone mineral density after the cessation of the ingestion of Cd-polluted rice. A total of 458 persons (294 women, 164 men) from three Cd exposure areas (low, moderately, and heavy) participated in this study. Those living in the moderate and heavy exposure areas ceased ingesting Cd-polluted rice (0.51 and 3.7mg/kg, respectively) in 1996 (10 years prior to present analysis). The participants completed a questionnaire and bone mineral density (BMD) was measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) at the proximal radius and ulna. The changes and change percentage in forearm bone density and the prevalence of osteoporosis between 1998 and 2006 were used as markers of bone recovery. The Cd concentrations in urine (UCd) and blood (BCd) in 1998 were used as Cd exposure markers. The values of the BMD change and change percentage of groups in which UCd was above 5microg/g creatinine (microg/g crea) and BCd was above 10microg/L were significantly higher than those of the low-exposure groups (in women, p<0.001; in men, p>0.05). The BMD change and change percentage correlated positively with the UCd and BCd (in women, p<0.01; in men, p>0.05). Analysis of the Z-score revealed that the prevalence of osteoporosis in 2006 was higher than that in 1998 and increased along with the level of UCd and BCd in both women and men, especially for those subjects with the higher BCd [BCd>5microg/L, OR=3.45 (0.95-13.6); BCd>10microg/L, OR=4.51(1.57-13.54)] and UCd [UCd>10microg/g crea, OR=4.74 (1.82-12.81)] in women. It is concluded that decreasing dietary cadmium exposure at the population level is not associated with bone recovery at the individual level, and the adverse bone effects of Cd exposure persisted after the main source of Cd exposure had been blocked, especially in women.
19616888	Methacrylic acid (MAA) grafted rice husk was synthesized using graft copolymerization with Fenton's reagent as the redox initiator and applied to the adsorption of paraquat. The highest grafting percentage of 44.3% was obtained using the traditional kinetic method. However, a maximum grafting percentage of 65.3% was calculated using the central composite design. Experimental results based on the recipes predicted from the statistical analysis are consistent with theoretical calculations. A representative polymethacrylic acid-g-rice husk (PMAA-g-rice husk) copolymer was hydrolyzed to a salt type and applied to the adsorption of paraquat. The adsorption equilibrium data correlate more closely with the Langmuir isotherm than with the Freundlich equation. The maximum adsorption capacity of modified rice husk is 292.5mg/g-adsorbent. This value exceeds those for Fuller's earth and activated carbon, which are the most common binding agents used for paraquat. The samples at various stages were characterized by solid-state (13)C NMR spectroscopy.
19617055	Summary The aim of this work was to assess prevalence and clinic of schistosomiasis as well as the knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) of populations living in the village of Molodo, a rice irrigated area of Mali. By cross sectional survey with a single passage, we enrolled 346 children aged of 7 to 14 years and 308 parents. The prevalence of Schistosoma haematobium and S. mansoni were respectively 72% and 68%. Micro-hematuria (Sy=86%; Sp=45%), urinary difficulty (Se=828% ; Sp=33%), high frequency of urine (Se=76% ; Sp=31%) and suspubians pain (Se=78% ; Sp=31%) associated with urinary schistosomiasis indicated that these symptoms could be relevant diagnosis signs. Similar observations could be considered as a good sign of diagnosis of intestinal schistosomiasis due to S. mansoni with abdominal pains (Se=75% ; Sp=36%), to have a fancy of stool (Se=75% ; Sp=32%), diarrhea (Se=71% ; Sp=32%), des conjunctival paleness (Se=85,% ; Sp=33%) et de spleen enlargement (Se=71% ; Sp=33%). The transmission patterns of schistosomiasis were not well known by populations, because only 15% of pupils and 38% of parents incriminated the canal and/or the 'fala" (the lake) as genitourinary bilharzias contamination source especially after bathing. The intestinal form was known by 11% of pupils and by 24% of parents. These results show that in spite of schistosomiasis endemic pattern, in this area, populations didn't know well this pathology.
19618099
19618278	The TIFY family is a novel plant-specific gene family involved in the regulation of diverse plant-specific biologic processes, such as development and responses to phytohormones, in Arabidopsis. However, there is limited information about this family in monocot species. This report identifies 20 TIFY genes in rice, the model monocot species. Sequence analysis indicated that rice TIFY proteins have conserved motifs beyond the TIFY domain as was previously shown in Arabidopsis. On the basis of their protein structures, members of the TIFY family can be divided into two groups. Transcript level analysis of OsTIFY genes in tissues and organs revealed different tempo-spatial expression patterns, suggesting that expression and function vary by stage of plant growth and development. Most of the OsTIFY genes were predominantly expressed in leaf. Nine OsTIFY genes were responsive to jasmonic acid and wounding treatments. Interestingly, almost all the OsTIFY genes were responsive to one or more abiotic stresses including drought, salinity, and low temperature. Over-expression of OsTIFY11a, one of the stress-inducible genes, resulted in significantly increased tolerance to salt and dehydration stresses. These results suggest that the OsTIFY family may have important roles in response to abiotic stresses. The data presented in this report provide important clues for further elucidating the functions of the genes in the OsTIFY family.
19619185	In rice (Oryza sativa L.), the number of panicles, spikelets per panicle and grain weight are important components of grain yield. These characteristics are controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and are derived from variation inherent in crops. As a result of the complex genetic basis of these traits, only a few genes involved in their control have been cloned and characterized. We have previously map-cloned a gene cluster including eight leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase (LRK) genes in Dongxiang wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.), which increased the grain yield by 16%. In the present study, we characterized the LRK1 gene, which was contained in the donor parent (Dongxiang wild rice) genome and absent from the recurrent parent genome (Guichao2, Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica). Our data showed that rice LRK1 is a plasma membrane protein expressed constitutively in leaves, young panicles, roots and culms. The over-expression of rice LRK1 results in increased panicles, spikelets per panicle, weight per grain and enhanced cellular proliferation, leading to a 27.09% increase in total grain yield per plant. The increased number of panicles and spikelets per panicle are associated with increased branch number. Our data suggest that rice LRK1 regulates rice branch number by enhancing cellular proliferation. The functional characterization of rice LRK1 facilitates an understanding of the mechanisms involved in cereal crop yield, and may have utility in improving grain yield in cereal crops.
19619287	Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) activity in plants is a trait with potential economic, agricultural and environmental impact. In relation to the food industry, PPO-induced browning causes unacceptable discolouration in fruit and vegetables: from an agriculture perspective, PPO can protect plants against pathogens and environmental stress, improve ruminant growth by increasing nitrogen absorption and decreasing nitrogen loss to the environment through the animal's urine. The high PPO legume, red clover, has a significant economic and environmental role in sustaining low-input organic and conventional farms. Molecular markers for a range of important agricultural traits are being developed for red clover and improved knowledge of PPO genes and their structure will facilitate molecular breeding. A bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library comprising 26,016 BAC clones with an average 135 Kb insert size, was constructed from Trifolium pratense L. (red clover), a diploid legume with a haploid genome size of 440-637 Mb. Library coverage of 6-8 genome equivalents ensured good representation of genes: the library was screened for polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes.Two single copy PPO genes, PPO4 and PPO5, were identified to add to a family of three, previously reported, paralogous genes (PPO1-PPO3). Multiple PPO1 copies were identified and characterised revealing a subfamily comprising three variants PPO1/2, PPO1/4 and PPO1/5. Six PPO genes clustered within the genome: four separate BAC clones could be assembled onto a predicted 190-510 Kb single BAC contig. A PPO gene family in red clover resides as a cluster of at least 6 genes. Three of these genes have high homology, suggesting a more recent evolutionary event. This PPO cluster covers a longer region of the genome than clusters detected in rice or previously reported in tomato. Full-length coding sequences from PPO4, PPO5, PPO1/5 and PPO1/4 will facilitate functional studies and provide genetic markers for plant breeding.
19619864	The phytochrome photoreceptors regulate plant growth and development throughout their life cycle. Rice (Oryza sativa) possesses three phytochromes, phyA, phyB, and phyC. Physiological, genetic, and biochemical analyses of null mutants of each phytochrome have revealed the function of each in rice. However, few studies have investigated the relationship between phytochrome signaling and metabolism. In the present study, non-targeted metabolite analysis by gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC/TOF-MS) and targeted metabolite analysis by capillary electrophoresis electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (CE/ESI-MS) were employed to investigate metabolic changes in rice phyA phyB phyC triple mutants. Distinct metabolic profiles between phyA phyB phyC triple mutants and the wild type (WT), as well as those between young and mature leaf blades, could be clearly observed by principal component analysis (PCA). The metabolite profiles indicated high accumulation of amino acids, organic acids, sugars, sugar phosphates, and nucleotides in the leaf blades of phyA phyB phyC triple mutants, especially in the young leaves, compared with those in the WT. Remarkable overaccumulation of monosaccharide, such as glucose (53.4-fold), fructose (42.5-fold), and galactose (24.5-fold), was observed in young leaves of phyA phyB phyC triple mutants. These metabolic phenotypes suggest that sugar metabolism, carbon partitioning, sugar transport, or some combination of these is impaired in the phyA phyB phyC triple mutants, and conversely, that phytochromes have crucial roles in sugar metabolism.
19619940	This study evaluates the removal of Cr(VI) from water by carbon derived from the burning of rice straw. Rice straw was burned in the air to obtain rice carbon (RC), and then the removal of Cr(VI) by RC was investigated under various pHs and ionic strengths. After the experiments, the oxidation state of Cr bound to RC was analyzed using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, which revealed that Cr bound to RC was predominately in the trivalent form. The results showed that upon reacting with RC, Cr(VI) was reduced to Cr(III), which was either adsorbed on RC or released back into solution. The extent and rate of Cr(VI) removal increased with decreasing solution pH because the Cr(VI) adsorption and the subsequent reduction of adsorbed Cr(VI) to Cr(III) both occur preferentially at low pH. The minimal effect of ionic strength on the rates of Cr(VI) removal and Cr(III) adsorption indicated specific interactions between Cr(VI)/Cr(III) and their surface binding sites on RC. These results suggest that rice straw-based carbon may be effectively used at low pH as a substitute for activated carbon for the treatment of Cr(VI) contaminated water.
19621226	Identification of enzymes that are expressed during host colonization and characterization of their biochemical properties are prerequisite to understanding their role in the pathogen-host interaction. Nine alpha-1,2-mannosidase homologs were identified in the analysis of the Magnaporthe oryzae genome. Endoplasmic reticulum localized alpha-1,2-mannosidases play an important role in protein glycosylation. However, several members of the alpha-1,2-mannosidase gene family are predicted to be secreted. The biological role of such extracellular enzymes in host colonization has not been defined. Here, we characterized a secreted alpha-1,2-mannosidase of M. oryzae, MGG_00994.6, and found that the mature polypeptide is a glycoprotein capable of hydrolyzing alpha-1,2 linked mannobiose. The gene is expressed during growth in vitro and during colonization on rice plants, however, deletion of the gene did not affect pathogenicity. Five other members of the alpha-1,2-mannosidase of M. oryzae were expressed with a pattern similar to MGG_00994.6, suggesting the potential for functional redundancy. These results form the basis for additional studies on the role of this gene family in the rice blast fungus and its interaction with rice.
19621584	Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) was one of the most important crops in the world next to wheat, rice, maize, soybean and barley. Using the callus derived from immature inflorescence as the recipients, we efficiently transformed sorghum varieties 115, ICS21B and 5-27 with the insecticidal Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) cry1Ab gene carried in the T-DNA of binary vectors which contained hygromycin resistance gene and gus gene via Agrobacterium tumefaciens. After gradient selection with hygromycin, a total of 21 independent transgenic plant lines, 52 transgenic plants were regenerated, and the average stably transformation efficiency was 1.9%. The integration and transcription of cry1Ab gene in transgenic sorghum was confirmed by PCR analysis, Southern blotting and RT-PCR analysis. The Bt proteins were expressed in most transgenic plants with different level from plant to plant by Western blotting and ELISA assay. According to insect bioassay in laboratory, the transgenic plants with a relatively high level of Bt gene expression displayed insect-resistance to pink rice borer (Sesamina inferens).
19621585	With Jingkang No.5 (PiA), calli of the PiA induced for 10-15 days were transferred into amino acid liquid culture medium, to establish excellent rice suspension cell lines successfully in a relative short time. The growth characteristics and differentiation conditions of suspension cells were measured at different phases. Results revealed that the optimal subculture time was 7-10 days, and the cells cultured for 30-120 days had the best differentiation ability (57.1%) and regeneration ability (20%). This study is promising in further using the suspension cell for genetic transformation and protoplasm isolation.
19621630	Bacillus subtilis Bs-916 is an effective biocontrol agent in control rice sheath blight caused by Rhizoctonia solani. We identified and analyzed the operon Bac in Bs-916 responsible for synthesis of iturin-like lipopeptides. The research plays an important part in genetic engineered Bs-916 for further improving its bio-control activity. Taking advantage of homologous recombination method, the one mutant obtained by replacement of the Bac original promoter by a constitutive promoter P (repU) and designated BGG104; the other mutant was obtained by disruption of the Bac promoter by insertion and designated BGG105. The biological activities results showed the mutant BGG104 enhanced antagonistic activities against several pathogenic fungi and also clearly increased in hemolytic activities. However, the mutant BGG105 decreased clearly in both antagonistic activities and hemolytic activities. Crude lipopeptides were extracted with methanol from precipitates, which were obtained by adding 6 mol/L HCl to the cell-free culture broth. The results of reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of crude lipopeptides showed lipopeptides produced by Bs-916 have a different retention time compared to iturinA. The mutant BGG104 produced up to 3-fold more lipopeptides than Bs-916. However, the mutant BGG105 has not been detected countpart lipopeptides production. The molecular weights of the lipopeptides synthesized by Bac determined by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MS) were 1007.7 Da, 1021.7 Da and 1035.7 Da. They were presumed to belong to homologues differed by a structure of --CH2 and their molecular weights were not the same as the other iturin-like liopeptides', such as iturinA, mycosubtilin and bacillomycin, molecular weights. In conclusion, this paper showed the lipopeptides synthesized by Bac play crucial part in Bs-916 antifungal activities and the lipopeptides overproduction were able to enhance Bs-916 bio-control activities.
19621931	In the current study, we apply nuclear proteome analysis to the search for novel nuclear proteins that play evolutionarily conserved roles in the sugar response in plants. We initially identified 563 different proteins by nanoLC/ESI/MS/MS analysis of extracts from rice nuclei that were purified by Percoll density gradient centrifugation, whereas 307 different proteins were identified with nucleic acid-associated proteins that were enriched by DNA affinity chromatography. Since some proteins were identified in both samples, the identified proteins summed up to 657 different proteins. Among them, we found not only transcription and splicing factors, but also a mediator of sugar signaling in plants, hexokinase. For identification of evolutionarily conserved and sugar-responsive nuclear factors, we performed in silico screening that included the identification of Arabidopsis homologues of our panel of rice proteins and investigation of the sugar-responsiveness of the corresponding genes. Since two WD40-like proteins and an armadillo/pumilio-like protein were selected as candidates for such nuclear factors, we confirmed the nuclear localization of these proteins and sugar-induced expression of their corresponding genes in both Arabidopsis and rice. We thus improve our knowledge of plant nuclear proteins and present a novel approach to the identification of factors with particular characteristics.
19622530	The amyloplast, a form of differentiated plastid, proliferates in sink tissues, where it synthesizes and stores starch granules. Little is known about the molecular mechanism for amyloplast division and development. The rice (Oryza sativa) endosperm provides an excellent model system for studying molecular mechanisms involved in amyloplast division and starch synthesis. We compared amyloplast division processes in the endosperm of wild type and a mutant of ARC5, a member of the dynamin superfamily. Plant growth and fertility of arc5 were not significantly different from the wild type. Unlike binary fission of chloroplast in the leaf, small amyloplasts in the endosperm of wild type divide simultaneously at multiple sites, generating a beads-on-a-string structure. In addition, large amyloplasts divide by budding-type division, giving rise to small amyloplasts attached to their surfaces. ARC5 and FtsZ2-1 fused to fluorescent proteins were targeted to the constriction sites in dividing amyloplasts. Both the loss of function of ARC5 and overexpression of ARC5 fusion proteins in the endosperm did not produce spherical amyloplasts with increased diameter, but produced either fused amyloplasts with thick connections or pleomorphic types, suggesting that proper stoichiometry between ARC5 and other components in the amyloplast division machinery is necessary for the completion of the late stage of amyloplast division. The size distribution of starch granules purified from arc5 was shifted to small and the starch gelatinization peak temperature was significantly higher than for wild-type starch, suggesting that amyloplast division processes have a significant effect on starch synthesis.
19622659	A Gram-stain-negative, strictly aerobic bacterium, designated strain N7(T), was isolated from a rice paddy in South Korea. Cells of strain N7(T) were non-motile, non-spore-forming rods. Growth was observed at 15-35 degrees C (optimum of 25-30 degrees C) and between pH 6.0 and 8.0 (optimum of pH 6.5-7.5). The predominant isoprenoid quinone was menaquinone-7. The major cellular fatty acids of strain N7(T) were summed feature 3 (comprising C(16 : 1)omega7c and/or iso-C(15 : 0) 2-OH), iso-C(15 : 0), anteiso-C(15 : 0), C(15 : 0) and iso-C(16 : 0). The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 37.7 mol%. Comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses showed that strain N7(T) formed a distinct phyletic line within the genus Pedobacter. Phylogenetic distances from strains of other Pedobacter species with validly published names were greater than 5.0 % (i.e. <95.0 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities). On the basis of phenotypic and molecular data, it is clear that strain N7(T) represents a novel species within the genus Pedobacter, for which the name Pedobacter oryzae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is N7(T) (=KACC 12821(T) =DSM 19973(T)).
19623546	Most insecticides used to control rice water weevil (Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuscel) infestations are pyrethroids. However, pyrethroids are highly toxic to non-target crayfish associated with rice-crayfish crop rotations. One solution to the near-exclusive reliance on pyrethroids in a rice-crayfish pest management program is to incorporate neonicotinoid insecticides, which are insect specific and effective against weevils but not extremely toxic to crayfish. This study aimed to take the first step to assess neonicotinoids as alternatives to pyrethroids in rice-crayfish crop rotations by measuring the acute toxicities of three candidate neonicotinoid insecticides, clothianidin, dinotefuran and thiamethoxam, to juvenile Procambarus clarkii (Girard) crayfish and comparing them with the acute toxicities of two currently used pyrethroid insecticides, lambda-cyhalothrin and etofenprox. Neonicotinoid insecticides are at least 2-3 orders of magnitude less acutely toxic (96 h LC(50)) than pyrethroids to juvenile Procambarid crayfish: lambda-cyhalothrin (0.16 microg AI L(-1)) = etofenprox (0.29 microg AI L(-1)) > clothianidin (59 microg AI L(-1)) > thiamethoxam (967 microg AI L(-1)) > dinotefuran (2032 microg AI L(-1)). Neonicotinoid insecticides appear to be much less hazardous alternatives to pyrethroids in rice-crayfish crop rotations. Further field-level neonicotinoid acute and chronic toxicity testing with crayfish is needed.
19626338	To study the mechanisms of exogenous NO contribution to alleviate the cadmium (Cd) toxicity in rice (Oryza sativa), rice plantlets subjected to 0.2-mM CdCl(2) exposure were treated with different concentrations of sodium nitroprusside (SNP, a NO donor), and Cd toxicity was evaluated by the decreases in plant length, biomass production and chlorophyll content. The results indicated that 0.1 mM SNP alleviated Cd toxicity most obviously. Atomic absorption spectrometry and fluorescence localization showed that treatment with 0.1 mM SNP decreased Cd accumulation in both cell walls and soluble fraction of leaves, although treatment with 0.1 mM SNP increased Cd accumulation in the cell wall of rice roots obviously. Treatment with 0.1 mM SNP in nutrient solution had little effect on the transpiration rate of rice leaves, but this treatment increased pectin and hemicellulose content and decreased cellulose content significantly in the cell walls of rice roots. Based on these results, we conclude that decreased distribution of Cd in the soluble fraction of leaves and roots and increased distribution of Cd in the cell walls of roots are responsible for the NO-induced increase of Cd tolerance in rice. It seems that exogenous NO enhances Cd tolerance of rice by increasing pectin and hemicellulose content in the cell wall of roots, increasing Cd accumulation in root cell wall and decreasing Cd accumulation in soluble fraction of leaves.
19626453	The novel vaccination technique for feral pigeons was developed in the present study. Multi-age feral pigeons were vaccinated orally with Newcastle disease (ND) strain I-2 vaccine coated on oiled rice. The results showed that 14 days after vaccination 40% of pigeons seroconverted with HI GMT of ≥3 log₂ whereas 28 days after vaccination the seroconversion rate of these birds reached 100%. Moreover, all vaccinated pigeons survived the challenge of virulent Newcastle disease virus (NDV). The findings from the present study indicated that the use of ND (strain I-2) vaccine in feral pigeons is feasible and resulted into the production of protective antibody response. Thus ND I-2 vaccine may prevent the spread of NDV to other birds particularly chickens. Furthermore the use of oral vaccine in feral multi-age pigeons overcomes the difficulty of catching these birds for individual vaccination.
19626879	Near infrared (NIR) spectroscopy and chemometrics were applied to determine the effect of pathlength variation on the spectra of the Chinese rice wine and the consequences of the prediction precision of calibration models developed for measuring alcoholic degree, sugar content, and pH was investigated in the present research Samples were scanned in transmission mode using a commercial FT-NIR spectrometer and a demountable liquid cell for versatile path length liquid sampling. By comparing the results of performance between models based on different optical pathlength (0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, and 3 mm), the best indicators of optical pathlength were identified. Based on the optimum pathlength, the models for alcoholic degree, sugar content and pH were established. The best optical pathlength for the alcoholic degree was 2 mm, using partial least squares regression (PLSR) model with the original spectra, correlation coefficient (r) was 0.942, root mean standard error of calibration (RMSEC) and root mean standard error of cross-validation (RMESCV) were 0.256 (%, (phi)) and 0.292 (%, (phi)), respectively; the best optical pathlength for the sugar content was 1 mm, using PLSR model with the original spectra, r was 0.945, and RMSEC and RMESCV were 0.125% and 0.149%, respectively; the best optical pathlength for the pH was 2 mm, using PLSR model with the original spectra, r was 0.947, and RMSEC and RMESCV were 0.018 and 0.039, respectively. This study showed that pathlength variation had influence on the performance of calibration models for Chinese rice wine, and a suitable pathlength could effectively improve detection accuracy.
19626904	The objective of the present study was (1) to construct new pigment indices based on making full use of all the spectral bands in the 350-2,500 nm region and (2) to compare the performance of these new pigment indices with that of the published normalized difference ratio pigment indices in estimating pigment content of rice. The 252 leaves of rice were sampled at different development stages, representing a wide range of pigment contents. The hyperspectral reflectance of leaves of rice and the corresponding chlorophyll contents and carotenoid contents were measured. A rigorous method using all the wavebands in the range of 350-2,500 nm was applied to generate all possible two-band normalized difference pigment indices, and then the linear models between these indices and chlorophyll and carotenoid contents were constructed. Finally, the index with the highest determination coefficients was selected as the optimal index for corresponding pigment. The model was tested and these selected indices were compared with the published indices. The result indicated that the indices [(R1729-R707)/(R1729+R707), (R1554-R572)/(R1554+R572), (R1729-R706)/(R1729+R706)), (R1536-R707)/(R1536+R707)] can relatively accurately estimate chlorophyll and cartenoid contents. The reference bands of the these new indices are mainly located in short wave infrared spectral region, which indicate that the spectral bands in the short wave infrared region are significant to construct normalized ratio pigment index, while the index bands of these indices are mostly in the region near 700 nm, and the longer bands of green region in the next place. Compared to the published indices, in general, the new indices give more accurate estimation of chlorophyll and carotenoid contents, or they behave the same as the best published index.
19627189	Mucosal vaccines are considered the most suitable type of vaccines to combat emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases because of their ability to induce both mucosal and systemic immunity. Considerable advances have been made toward the development of mucosal vaccines against influenza virus and rotavirus. Many additional mucosal vaccines are in development, including vaccines against cholera, typhoid, traveler's diarrhea and respiratory infections. In addition to oral and nasal vaccines, transcutaneous (or skin patch) and sublingual immunizations are now part of a new generation of mucosal vaccines. Furthermore, a rice-based oral vaccine (MucoRice) has been receiving global attention as a new form of cold chain-free vaccine, because it is stable at room temperature for a prolonged period. This review describes recent developments in mucosal vaccines with promising preclinical and clinical results.
19627211	Rice bran, the outer bran and germ of the kernel and a by-product of rice milling, is rich in phytonutrients but has been underutilized because of lipid content instability. New methods for the processing of rice bran have yielded a stabilized form that is increasingly used in foods and dietary supplements. Recent studies have documented a role for stabilized rice bran (SRB) in treating diabetes and arthritis, although little is known of the bioactive compounds that impart these health benefits. Here we characterize the chemical composition of three extracts of SRB and identify the functional bioactives contributing to the inhibitory properties against three key pro-inflammatory enzymes (cyclooxygenase [COX] 1, COX2, and 5-lipoxygenase [5-LOX]) that control the inflammatory cascade involved in impaired joint health, pain, and arthritis. One extract (SRB-AI) demonstrated significant COX1 and COX2 inhibitory activities with 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) values for COX1 and COX2 of 305 and 29 microg/mL, respectively, but no 5-LOX inhibition. The second extract (SRB-AII) inhibited COX1, COX2, and 5-LOX with IC(50) values of 310, 19, and 396 microg/mL, respectively. The third extract (SRB-AIII), a blend of SRB-AI and SRB-AIII, inhibited COX1, COX2, and 5-LOX with respective IC(50) values of 48, 11, and 197 microg/mL. Analysis of the extracts by direct analysis in real time time of flight-mass spectrometry revealed that SRB-AI, SRB-AII, and SRB-AIII contain over 620, 770, and 810 compounds, respectively. Of these, 17 were identified as key bioactives for COX and/or LOX inhibition. These SRB extracts have applications for functional foods and dietary supplements for control of inflammation and joint health.
19627567	A precise knowledge of the temporal and spatial distributions of cell division and tissue expansion is essential for appropriate leaf sampling in omics studies and for analyses of plant-environment relations. Elongating leaves of rice were studied during their whole development for elongation rate, distribution of cell length, cell production rate and spatial distribution of growth in the leaf. In seven genotypes, the pattern of leaf elongation rate followed three phases: (1) an exponential increase before leaf appearance; (2) a short phase (2-4 d at 20 degrees C) with a stable leaf elongation rate around leaf appearance; and (3) a phase of 8-10 d with a progressive decrease in elongation rate. The profile of cell length along the leaf changed with time during the first and last phases, but was time invariant around appearance. We propose a method adapted to non-steady elongation based on anatomical measurements, which was successfully tested by comparing it with the pricking method. It allowed analysis of the change with time in the spatial distribution of growth from initiation to end of leaf growth. The length of leaf zones with cell division and tissue elongation varied with time, with maximums of 21 and 60 mm respectively around leaf appearance.
19628300	Spaceflight represents a unique environmental condition whereby dysregulated gene expression and genomic instability can be provoked. However, detailed molecular characterization of the nature of genetic changes induced by spaceflight is yet to be documented in a higher eukaryote. Transposable elements (TEs) are ubiquitous and have played a significant role in genome evolution. Mounting evidence indicates that TEs constitute the genomic fraction that is susceptible and responsive to environmental perturbations, and hence, most likely manifesting genetic instabilities in times of stress. A predominant means for TEs to cause genetic instability is via their transpositional activation. Here we show that spaceflight has induced transposition of several endogenous TEs in rice, which belong to distinct classes including the miniature inverted terminal repeat TEs (MITEs) and long-terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons. Of three rice lines studied, transposition of TEs were detected in the plants germinated from space-flown dry seeds of two lines (RZ1 and RZ35), which are genetically homogeneous and stabilized recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a pure-line rice cultivar, Matsumae. In contrast, the TEs remained immobile in plants derived from space-flown seeds of Matsumae itself, indicating a genotype-dependent manner of TE transposition under the spaceflight environment. Further examination showed that at least in some cases transposition of TEs was associated with cytosine demethylation within the elements. Moreover, the spaceflight-induced TE activity was heritable to organismal progenies. Thus, our results implicate that the spaceflight environment represents a potent mutagenic environment that can cause genetic instabilities by eliciting transposition of otherwise totally quiescent endogenous TEs in a higher eukaryote.
19628595	Three facultative methylotrophic bacterial strains, designated CBMB127(T), CBMB145 and CBMB147, were isolated from the rhizosphere soil of rice and characterized. The strains produced indole-3-acetic acid and siderophores, had 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase activity and sulfur oxidation property and also methanol dehydrogenase. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA and methanol dehydrogenase (mxaF) gene sequences showed that Methylophilus methylotrophus was their close relative. The results of the phenotypic, phylogenetic and genotypic analyses showed that strains CBMB127(T) and CBMB145, with 99.4 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity and 99 % DNA-DNA hybridization, could be distinguished from recognized species of Methylophilus. Therefore strain CBMB127(T) and CBMB145 are considered to represent a novel species of Methylophilus, for which the name Methylophilus rhizosphaerae sp. nov. is proposed, with CBMB127(T) (=KACC 13099(T)=NCCB 100233(T)) as the type strain. Strain CBMB147 represents a novel strain of the species Methylophilus methylotrophus.
19628604	The taxonomic position of a novel bacterial strain, YC6267(T) isolated from a field of rice (Oryza sativa L.) managed under a no-tillage regime in Jinju, Korea, was studied using a polyphasic taxonomic approach. Cells of the strain were Gram-stain-negative, rod-shaped and aerobic. It grew at 15-37 degrees C (optimum at 28 degrees C). Growth of the strain occurred between pH 5.0 and 10.0, with an optimum of pH 7.0-8.0. The G+C content of the total DNA was 65.8 mol%. The 16S rRNA gene sequence of the strain was most closely related to species of the genera Arenimonas (95.6-94.4 %) and Aspromonas (95.1 %), with <95.0 % similarity to species of the genus Lysobacter and other genera of the family Xanthomonadaceae. Chemotaxonomic data (major quinone Q-8; major polar lipids phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol and diphosphatidylglycerol; and major fatty acids iso-C(15 : 0), iso-C(14 : 0), iso-C(16 : 0), and iso-C(17 : 1)omega9c) supported the affiliation of strain YC6267(T) to the genus Arenimonas. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences and biochemical and physiological characteristics strongly supported the genotypic and phenotypic differentiation of strain YC6267(T) from described species of the genus Arenimonas. Strain YC6267(T), therefore, represents a novel species, for which the name Arenimonas oryziterrae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is YC6267(T) (=KCTC 22247(T) =DSM 21050(T)). In addition, the reclassification of Aspromonas composti as Arenimonas composti comb. nov. is proposed (type strain TR7-09(T) =KCTC 12666(T) =DSM 18010(T)). A common line of descent and a number of shared phenotypic traits support this reclassification.
19629756	An extremely alkaliphilic bacterial strain, Bacillus sp. PPKS-2, was isolated from rice mill effluents and screened for the production of extracellular keratinase. The maximum production of keratinase occurred after 48 h in shaking culture at pH 11.0 and 37 degrees C in a medium containing 0.5% soybean flour. The strain grew and produced alkaline keratinase using chicken feather and horn meal as the sole source of carbon and nitrogen. An addition of 0.1% soybean flour or feather hydrolysate and sodium sulfite to feather medium increased the production and complete solubilization of feather took place within 5 days under solid-state fermentation conditions. The partially purified enzyme displayed maximum activity at pH 11.0 and 60 degrees C in a broad range of NaCl, 0-16%, and was not inhibited by sodium dodecyl sulfate (10%), ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (10 mM), H2O2 (15%), and other commercial detergents. Immobilization of the whole cells proved to be useful for continuous production of keratinase and feather degradation. The enzyme was effectively used to remove hair from goat hide. The strain PPKS-2 can be effectively used for solid waste management of poultry feather in submerged as well as solid-state fermentation.
19630388	The health benefits of whole grain consumption have been attributed to their content of complex carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals, and other phytochemical constituents. Wild rice is a whole grain finding applications in gourmet foods due to its nutritional value and unique taste. However, little is known about its antioxidant properties and phytochemical components. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the antioxidant properties of wild rice. Eleven commercial wild rice samples (raw, mixed, and processed) were extracted with acetone and fractionated using a Sephadex LH-20 column. 2,2-Diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl radical (DPPH(*)) scavenging activity, oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC), and total phenolic content were evaluated to determine the antioxidant properties of wild rice. The antioxidant activity of wild rice was found to be 30 times greater than that of the control white rice. Significant differences (p < 0.05) in antioxidant activities were found among raw, mixed, and processed samples. For raw samples, DPPH(*) radical scavenging activities and ORAC values ranged from 611 to 917 micromol of Trolox equivalent (TE)/100 g and from 4069 to 6064 micromol of TE/100 g, respectively. For mixed and processed wild rice, DPPH(*) radical scavenging activities were 373 and 441 micromol of TE/100 g, respectively. The corresponding ORAC values were 2284 and 2557 micromol of TE/100 g. Total phenolic content (TPC) of raw wild rice varied from 2472 to 4072 mg of ferulic acid equivalent (FAE)/kg, higher than that of the mixed sample (1460 mg of FAE/kg) and processed sample (2076 mg of FAE/kg). TPC was highly correlated with total antioxidant activity of wild rice (r = 0.92). Tandem mass spectrometric techniques revealed the antioxidants identified in wild rice to be flavonoid glycosides (diglucosyl apigenin, glucosyl-arabinosyl apigenin, and diarabinosyl apigenin) in factions 2 and 3 and flavan-3-ols (catechin, epicatechin, and oligomeric procyanidin) in fractions 4 and 5.
19630981	There are two main technologies for transcriptome profiling, namely, tiling microarrays and high-throughput sequencing. Recently there has been a tremendous amount of excitement about the latter because of the advent of next-generation sequencing technologies and its promises. Consequently, the question of the moment is how these two technologies compare. Here we attempt to develop an approach to do a fair comparison of transcripts identified from tiling microarray and MPSS sequencing data. This comparison is a challenging task because the sequencing data is discrete while the tiling array data is continuous. We use the published rice and Arabidopsis datasets which provide currently best matched sets of arrays and sequencing experiments using a slightly earlier generation of sequencing, the MPSS tag sequencing technology. After scoring the arrays consistently in both the organisms, a first pass comparison reveals a surprisingly small overlap in transcripts of 22% and 66% respectively, in rice and Arabidopsis. However, when we do the analysis in detail, we find that this is an underestimate. In particular, when we map the probe intensities onto the sequencing tags and then look at their intensity distribution, we see that they are very similar to exons. Furthermore, restricting our comparison to only protein-coding gene loci revealed a very good overlap between the two technologies. Our approach to compare genome tiling microarray and MPSS sequencing data suggests that there is actually a reasonable overlap in transcripts identified by the two technologies. This overlap is distorted by the scoring and thresholding in the tiling array scoring procedure.
19631021	The diet consumed by urban residents in modern China has become rich in saturated fats and cholesterol. In addition, the diet is high in carbohydrates from white rice and processed wheat starch. The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of replacing white rice and processed wheat starch with wild rice (WR) as the chief source of dietary carbohydrates. Rats fed with the diet patterned after the diet consumed by city residents of modern China showed elevated serum lipid levels comparable with rats consuming a high fat/cholesterol diet known to induce hyperlipidaemia in this species. Meanwhile, rats consuming the city diet with WR as the carbohydrate source suppressed the increase in serum TAG and total cholesterol, and the decrease in HDL cholesterol level. In addition, the rats fed the WR diet suppressed the build-up of oxidative stress by improving antioxidant capacity, increasing superoxide dismutase activity and reducing malondialdehyde concentration, both in the serum and liver. These findings illustrate that WR is effective in suppressing hyperlipidaemia and oxidative stress in rats even when the diet consumed is high in fat and cholesterol.
19631918	It is generally accepted that Oryza rufipogon is the progenitor of Asian cultivated rice (O. sativa). However, how the two subspecies of O. sativa (indica and japonica) were domesticated has long been debated. To investigate the genetic differentiation in O. rufipogon in relation to the domestication of O. sativa, we developed 57 subspecies-specific intron length polymorphism (SSILP) markers by comparison between 10 indica cultivars and 10 japonica cultivars and defined a standard indica rice and a standard japonica rice based on these SSILP markers. Using these SSILP markers to genotype 73 O. rufipogon accessions, we found that the indica alleles and japonica alleles of the SSILP markers were predominant in the O. rufipogon accessions, suggesting that SSILPs were highly conserved during the evolution of O. sativa. Cluster analysis based on these markers yielded a dendrogram consisting of two distinct groups: one group (Group I) comprises all the O. rufipogon accesions from tropical (South and Southeast) Asia as well as the standard indica rice; the other group (Group II) comprises all the O. rufipogon accessions from Southern China as well as the standard japonica rice. Further analysis showed that the two groups have significantly higher frequencies of indica alleles and japonica alleles, respectively. These results support the hypothesis that indica rice and japonica rice were domesticated from the O. rufipogon of tropical Asia and from that of Southern China, respectively, and suggest that the indica-japonica differentiation should have formed in O. rufipogon long before the beginning of domestication. Furthermore, with an O. glaberrima accession as an outgroup, it is suggested that the indica-japonica differentiation in O. rufipogon might occur after its speciation from other AA-genome species.
19633235	The directional transport of the plant hormone auxin has been identified as central element of axis formation and patterning in plants. This directionality of transport depends on gradients, across the cell, of auxin-efflux carriers that continuously cycle between plasma membrane and intracellular compartments. This cycling has been proposed to depend on actin filaments. However, the role of actin for the polarity of auxin transport has been disputed. The organization of actin, in turn, has been shown to be under control of auxin. By overexpression of the actin-binding protein talin, we have generated transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) lines, where actin filaments are bundled to variable extent and, in consequence, display a reduced dynamics. We show that this bundling of actin filaments correlates with impaired gravitropism and reduced longitudinal transport of auxin. We can restore a normal actin configuration by addition of exogenous auxins and restore gravitropism as well as polar auxin transport. This rescue is mediated by indole-3-acetic acid and 1-naphthyl acetic acid but not by 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. We interpret these findings in the context of a self-referring regulatory circuit between polar auxin transport and actin organization. This circuit might contribute to the self-amplification of auxin transport that is a central element in current models of auxin-dependent patterning.
19634067	Four out of eight 'healthier' oils-namely, almond oil, avocado oil, hazelnut oil and macadamia nut oil-studied were rich sources of monounsaturated fatty acids like olive oil. Grape seed oil, rice barn oil (marketed recently), toasted sesame oil and walnut oil contained high levels of essential fatty acids. The order of oxidative stability determined by Rancimat measuring of the induction period at four temperatures (90 degrees C, 100 degrees C, 110 degrees C, and 120 degrees C) was found to be macadamia oil > rice bran oil approximately toasted sesame oil > avocado oil > almond oil > hazelnut oil > grape seed oil > walnut oil. High-level monounsaturated fatty acid oils gave a linear relationship between 100 times the reciprocal of the induction period against the total unsaturated fatty acid content obtained as %C18:2 + 0.08 x C18:1 + 2.08 x %C18:3, while the polyunsaturated fatty acid oils gave an exponential relationship. In the case of rice bran and hazelnut oils, shelf-life prediction from the extrapolation of the Arrhenius plots and the Q(10) factors was compared well with that of storage time given by the oil producers. In the cases of the other oils (with an exception of macadamia nut oil), the predicted shelf-lives were significantly lower than that of the storage times; especially, walnut oil (very prone to oxidation) gave 15-20 times lower shelf-life than the best-before storage life.
19634420	The effects of chlorothalonil and carbendazim on nitrification and denitrification in six soils in upland and rice paddy environments were investigated. Laboratory aerobic (60% water holding capacity) and anaerobic (flooded) conditions were studied at 25 degrees C and fungicide addition rates of 5.5 mg/kg A. I. (field rate, FR), 20 times (20FR) and 40 times (40FR) field rate, respectively. The results indicated that chlorothalonil at the field rate had a slight inhibitory effect on one soil only, and that soil did not nitrify much in the first place. But chlorothalonil at higher rates inhibited nitrification significantly in all soils. For soils JXP and JXU with a pH of less than 5.0, chlorothalonil almost completely stopped their nitrification at 20FR and 40FR during the whole 14 d incubation period. For soils HNP and HNU with a pH of greater than 8.0, chlorothalonil also significantly inhibit nitrification at 20FR and 40FR (p < 0.05). However, NH4+ that was added to the soil was also almost completely nitrified by the end of the incubation period in these two soils. The effects of chlorothalonil at 20FR and 40FR on the nitrification of JSP and JSU soils, with a pH of 5.4 and 7.2, respectively, were intermediate between the other soil types. Chlorothalonil had no effect on denitrification at the field rate and had little effect at the higher rates of application in some soils. Carbendazim had essentially no effect on nitrification and denitrification in soils assessed.
19634423	Xuzhou City is an important base for coal production and coal-fired power. To evaluate selenium contamination in this area, we sampled agricultural soil, soil profile, irrigation water, bedrock, coal, fly ash, paddy rice, and vegetables from the north of Xuzhou City, and determined their selenium contents. The background level of selenium in the soil profile was 0.08 mg/kg. The selenium concentrations in agricultural soils and irrigation water were in the range of 0.21-4.08 mg/kg and 0.002-0.29 mg/L, respectively. Soils with high selenium content were located closely to coalmines and power plants. The average selenium concentrations in coal and coal fly ash were 5.46 and 2.81 mg/kg, respectively. In contrast, the concentrations of selenium in bedrock and in the soil profile were very low. These results imply that the high selenium level in agricultural soils is mainly caused by anthropogenic activities, rather than by parent material. The arithmetic mean of selenium concentration in paddy rice was 0.116 mg/kg, and in cabbage was 0.05 mg/kg. The selenium concentration in rice was positively correlated with total selenium concentration in soil, suggesting that selenium in soil is readily transferred into the crops. Furthermore, the estimated dietary intake (88.8 microg) of selenium from paddy rice and cabbage exceeds the recommended dietary allowance (55 microg). Therefore, there is a potential health risk from consumption of local staple food in the study area.
19634447	Phosphorus (P) deficiency is thought to exacerbate the arsenic (As) phytotoxicity in paddy rice. The experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of external phosphate supply on As accumulation in rice and its toxicity under phosphate deficiency conditions. Rice seedlings pretreated with a phosphorus deficient nutrient solution (-P) for 14 d accumulated more As than those pretreated with a normal phosphorus supply nutrient solution (+P). Rice protreated with -P showed As toxicity symptoms after being exposed to 50 micromol/L arsenate for 4 h, while +P rice did not show any toxicity symptoms. Arsenic toxicity symptoms can be alleviated by increasing external P concentrations. The arsenate uptake rate and accumulation corresponded with the As toxicity in rice plants. Arsenic concentrations in rice roots decreased with increasing external phosphate concentrations. The lowest As accumulation and the highest P accumulation were found when the external P concentration reached 100 micromol/L. In short, P deficiency increased the sensitivity of rice to arsenate and increasing of external phosphate supply could alleviate As toxicity.
19635125	Anthropogenic modification of natural habitats can create conditions in which pest species associated with humans can thrive. In order to mitigate for these changes, it is necessary to determine which aspects of human management are associated with the promotion of those pests. Anopheles gambiae, the main Africa malaria vector, often breeds in rice fields. Here the impact of the ancient practice of 'swamp rice' cultivation, on the floodplains of the Gambia River, on the production of anopheline mosquitoes was investigated. Routine surveys were carried out along 500 m transects crossing rice fields from the landward edge of the floodplains to the river during the 2006 rainy season. Aquatic invertebrates were sampled using area samplers and emergence traps and fish sampled using nets. Semi-field experiments were used to investigate whether nutrients used for swamp rice cultivation affected mosquito larval abundance. At the beginning of the rainy season rice is grown on the landward edge of the floodplain; the first area to flood with fresh water and one rich in cattle dung. Later, rice plants are transplanted close to the river, the last area to dry out on the floodplain. Nearly all larval and adult stages of malaria vectors were collected 0-100 m from the landward edge of the floodplains, where immature rice plants were grown. These paddies contained stagnant freshwater with high quantities of cattle faeces. Semi-field studies demonstrated that cattle faeces nearly doubled the number of anopheline larvae compared with untreated water. Swamp rice cultivation creates ideal breeding sites for malaria vectors. However, only those close to the landward edge harboured vectors. These sites were productive since they were large areas of standing freshwater, rich in nutrients, protected from fish, and situated close to human habitation, where egg-laying mosquitoes from the villages had short distances to fly. The traditional practice of 'swamp rice' cultivation uses different bodies of water on the floodplains to cultivate rice during the rainy season. A consequence of this cultivation is the provizion of ideal conditions for malaria vectors to thrive. As the demand for locally-produced rice grows, increased rice farming will generate great numbers of vectors; emphasizing the need to protect local communities against malaria.
19635594	To understand the responses of rice seedlings to different high-temperature stresses, seven-day-old rice seedlings were exposed to different high temperatures for 48 h, and the maximal quantum yield of PS II photochemistry measurements, ascorbate peroxidase activity assays and proteomic analyses in leaf tissue were performed. The results showed that when rice seedlings were exposed to high temperatures at 35 degrees C, 40 degrees C and 45 degrees C, the maximal quantum yield of photosystem II photochemistry, the activity of ascorbate peroxidase and the proteome changed greater at higher temperature. The proteomics analysis showed that proteins such as lignification-related proteins were regulated by high temperature and distinct proteins related to protection were up-regulated at different high temperatures. All the results indicated that different strategies were adopted at different levels of high temperature: the higher the temperature, the more protection machineries were involved. At 35 degrees C, some protective mechanisms were activated to maintain the photosynthetic capability. At 40 degrees C, antioxidative pathways were also active. When rice seedlings encountered high-temperature stress at 45 degrees C, in addition to those induced at 35 degrees C and 40 degrees C, heat shock proteins were effectively induced.
19635799	Production of major diterpenoid phytoalexins, momilactones and phytocassanes, is induced in rice upon recognition of pathogenic invasion as plant defense-related compounds. We recently showed that biosynthetic genes for momilactones are clustered on rice chromosome 4 and co-expressed after elicitation, mimicking pathogen attack. Because genes for most metabolic pathways in plants are not organized in gene clusters, examination of the mechanism(s) regulating the expression of such clustered genes is needed. Here, we report a chitin oligosaccharide elicitor-inducible basic leucine zipper transcription factor, OsTGAP1, which is essential for momilactone biosynthesis and regulates the expression of the five genes in the cluster. The knock-out mutant for OsTGAP1 had almost no expression of the five clustered genes (OsCPS4, OsKSL4, CYP99A2, CYP99A3, and OsMAS) or production of momilactones upon elicitor treatment. Inductive expression of OsKSL7 for phytocassane biosynthesis was also largely affected in the ostgap1 mutant, although phytocassane accumulation still occurred. Conversely, OsTGAP1-overexpressing lines exhibited enhanced expression of the clustered genes and hyperaccumulation of momilactones in response to the elicitor. Furthermore, enhanced expression of OsKSL7 and hyperaccumulation of phytocassanes was also observed. We also found that OsTGAP1 overexpression can influence transcriptional up-regulation of OsDXS3 in the methylerythritol phosphate pathway, eventually leading to inductive production of diterpenoid phytoalexins. These results indicate that OsTGAP1 functions as a key regulator of the coordinated transcription of genes involved in inductive diterpenoid phytoalexin production in rice and mainly exerts an essential role on expression of the clustered genes for momilactone biosynthesis.
19636561	Two pathways are used by higher plants for the biosynthesis of isoprenoid precursors: the mevalonate pathway in the cytosol and a 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway in the plastids, with 1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate reductase (HDR) catalyzing the last step in the MEP pathway. In order to understand the contribution of MEP pathway in isoprenoid biosynthesis of Oncidium orchid, a full-length cDNA corresponding to HDR from the flower tissues of Oncidium Gower Ramsey was cloned. The deduced OncHDR amino acid sequence contains a plastid signal peptide at the N-terminus and four conserved cysteine residues. RT-PCR analysis of HDR in Oncidium flowering plants revealed ubiquitous expression in organs and tissues, with preferential expression in the floral organs. Phylogenetic analysis revealed evolutionary conservation of the encoding HDR protein sequence. The genomic sequence of the HDR in Oncidium is similar to that in Arabidopsis, grape, and rice in structure. Successful complementation by OncHDR of an E. coli hdr(-) mutant confirmed its function. Transgenic tobacco carrying the OncHDR promoter-GUS gene fusion showed expression in most tissues, as well as in reproductive organs, as revealed by histochemical staining. Light induced strong GUS expression driven by the OncHDR promoter in transgenic tobacco seedlings. Taken together, our data suggest a role for OncHDR as a light-activated gene.
19636562	Diploid Hordeum bulbosum (a wild relative of cultivated barley) exhibits a two-locus self-incompatibility (SI) system gametophytically controlled by the unlinked multiallelic loci S and Z. This unique SI system is observed in the grasses (Poaceae) including the tribe Triticeae. This paper describes the identification and characterization of two F-box genes cosegregating with the S locus in H. bulbosum, named Hordeum S locus-linked F-box 1 (HSLF1) and HSLF2, which were derived from an S (3) haplotype-specific clone (HAS175) obtained by previous AMF (AFLP-based mRNA fingerprinting) analysis. Sequence analysis showed that both genes encode similar F-box proteins with a C-terminal leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain, which are distinct from S locus (or S haplotype-specific) F-box protein (SLF/SFB), a class of F-box proteins identified as the pollen S determinant in S-RNase-based gametophytic SI systems. A number of homologous F-box genes with an LRR domain were found in the rice genome, although the functions of the gene family are unknown. One allele of the HSLF1 gene (HSLF1-S (3)) was expressed specifically in mature anthers, whereas no expression was detected from the other two alleles examined. Although the degree of sequence polymorphism among the three HSLF1 alleles was low, a frameshift mutation was found in one of the unexpressed alleles. The HSLF2 gene showed a low level of expression with no tissue specificity as well as little sequence polymorphism among the three alleles. The multiplicity of S locus-linked F-box genes is discussed in comparison with those found in the S-RNase-based SI system.
19637600	To investigate the effects of high ozone concentration on spikelet formation of hybrid rice cultivars, an experiment using a unique free air ozone concentration enrichment (ozone-FACE) system was conducted in 2007. Two hybrid rice cultivars, Shanyou 63 (SY63) and Liangyoupeijiu (LYPJ), were grown at ambient and elevated (target at 50% above ambient) ozone concentration. The results showed that compared with ambient ozone concentration, elevated ozone reduced the spikelet number per panicle by 28 and 34 (relative decrease of 15% and 13%) for SY63 and LYPJ, respectively. This reduction in spikelet number per panicle was mainly contributed to the significant decrease in spikelet number on secondary branches (SB), while only minor response was detected for the spikelet number on primary branches (PB), resulting in an increase in percentage of primary branch spikelets and a decrease in percentage of secondary branch spikelets under ozone exposure. In terms of spikelet formation, the large ozone-induced reduction in spikelet number per panicle of the two hybrid cultivars was entirely due to the suppression of spikelet differentiation per panicle (especially that on SB), while the degenerated spikelets per panicle decreased rather than increased under ozone exposure. It was suggested that corresponding measures should be adopted to mitigate the detrimental effects of ozone on the spikelet differentiation to minimize yield loss under increasing surface ozone concentration.
19637602	A field experiment was carried to study the effects of organic-inorganic mixed fertilizers on rice yield, nitrogen (N) use efficiency, soil N supply, and soil microbial diversity. Rapeseed cake compost (RCC), pig manure compost (PMC), and Chinese medicine residue compost (MRC) were mixed with chemical N, P and K fertilizers. All the treatments except CK received the same rate of N. The results showed that all N fertilizer application treatments had higher rice yield (7918.8-9449.2 kg x hm(-2)) than the control (6947.9 kg x hm(-2)). Compared with that of chemical fertilizers (CF) treatment (7918.8 kg x hm(-2)), the yield of the three organic-inorganic mixed fertilizers treatments ranged in 8532.0-9449.2 kg x hm(-2), and the increment was 7.7%-19.3%. Compared with treatment CF, the treatments of organic-inorganic mixed fertilizers were significantly higher in N accumulation, N transportation efficiency, N recovery rate, agronomic N use efficiency, and physiological N use efficiency. These mixed fertilizers treatments promoted rice N uptake and improved soil N supply, and thus, increased N use efficiency, compared with treatments CF and CK. Neighbor joining analysis indicated that soil bacterial communities in the five treatments could be classified into three categories, i.e., CF and CK, PMC and MRC, and RCC, implying that the application of exogenous organic materials could affect soil bacterial communities, while applying chemical fertilizers had little effect on them.
19640724	The classical phase II detoxification glutathione transferases (GSTs) are key metabolic enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of glutathione to various electrophilic compounds. A tau class GST gene (OsGSTU17) was cloned from rice, which encodes a protein of 223 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 25.18 kDa. The recombinant OsGSTU17 formed a homodimer protein and showed GSH-conjugating activity with various xenobiotics. Kinetic analysis with respect to NBD-Cl as substrate revealed a K(m) of 0.324 mM and V(max) of 0.219 micromol/min per mg of protein. The enzyme had a maximum activity at pH 7.5, and a high thermal stability with 81% of its initial activity at 55 degrees C for 15 min. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that Ser15 in the N-terminal domain is a critical catalytic residue, responsible for stabilisation of the thiolate anion of enzyme-bound glutathione. OsGSTU17 mRNA was expressed in different tissues of rice, both above and below ground. The relative transcript levels of OsGSTU17 mRNA varied significantly among the tissues in response to CDNB, hydrogen peroxide and atrazine treatments, indicating the gene has diverse regulation mechanisms in response to abiotic stresses.
19640825	Ubiquitous in eukaryotes, Long Terminal Repeats (LTR) retrotransposons elements play important role in the genome evolution. Sequencing of genomes presents a great challenge of rapidly identifying them in large-scale genomic data. In this report we describe LTR_INSERT, a computational method for identifying LTR elements in genomic sequences. Our method provides structural and evolutionary supports to discover LTR elements. By applying LTR_INSERT to two rice genomes, we have identified 72 novel LTR families in the species of which LTR elements have been extensively mined.
19641029	Pseudogenes (Psi) are nonfunctional genomic sequences resembling functional genes. Knowledge of Psis can improve genome annotation and our understanding of genome evolution. However, there has been relatively little systemic study of Psis in plants. In this study, we characterized the evolution and expression patterns of Psis in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa). In contrast to animal Psis, many plant Psis experienced much stronger purifying selection. In addition, plant Psis experiencing stronger selective constraints tend to be derived from relatively ancient duplicates, suggesting that they were functional for a relatively long time but became Psis recently. Interestingly, the regions 5' to the first stops in the Psis have experienced stronger selective constraints compared with 3' regions, suggesting that the 5' regions were functional for a longer period of time after the premature stops appeared. We found that few Psis have expression evidence, and their expression levels tend to be lower compared with annotated genes. Furthermore, Psis with expressed sequence tags tend to be derived from relatively recent duplication events, indicating that Psi expression may be due to insufficient time for complete degeneration of regulatory signals. Finally, larger protein domain families have significantly more Psis in general. However, while families involved in environmental stress responses have a significant excess of Psis, transcription factors and receptor-like kinases have lower than expected numbers of Psis, consistent with their elevated retention rate in plant genomes. Our findings illustrate peculiar properties of plant Psis, providing additional insight into the evolution of duplicate genes and benefiting future genome annotation.
19641034	In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), the carotenoid cleavage dioxygenases MORE AXILLARY GROWTH3 (MAX3) and MAX4 act together with MAX1 to produce a strigolactone signaling molecule required for the inhibition of axillary bud outgrowth. We show that both MAX3 and MAX4 transcripts are positively auxin regulated in a manner similar to the orthologous genes from pea (Pisum sativum) and rice (Oryza sativa), supporting evolutionary conservation of this regulation in plants. This regulation is important for branching control because large auxin-related reductions in these transcripts are associated with increased axillary branching. Both transcripts are up-regulated in max mutants, and consistent with max mutants having increased auxin in the polar auxin transport stream, this feedback regulation involves auxin signaling. We suggest that both auxin and strigolactone have the capacity to modulate each other's levels and distribution in a dynamic feedback loop required for the coordinated control of axillary branching.
19641306	The aim of the present study was to clarify the effect of rice proteins, with different contents of glutelin and prolamin, on the regulation of hepatic cholesterol output pathways and the development of hypocholesterolemia in rats. Seven-week-old male Wistar rats were fed 2 types of rice protein from either the cultivar Koshihikari (RRP) or the cultivar Shunyo (SRP), or casein as a control, for 2 weeks (n = 6 for each group). Each diet was supplemented with 1% cholesterol and 0.25% sodium cholate. Using an isolated perfused liver, hepatic secretion of cholesterol into bile and the circulation was measured during a 4-hour perfusion. Total hepatic cholesterol secretions into the circulation were significantly reduced by both rice proteins (p < 0.05), and hepatic cholesterol secretions into very-low-density lipoproteins were also effectively decreased by RRP and SRP. In contrast, bile flow and biliary output of bile acids were significantly stimulated by RRP and SRP (p < 0.05). These results demonstrate that the key metabolic pathways of hepatic cholesterol are modified by both rice proteins leading to similar hypocholesterolemic effects. The increased excretion of biliary bile acids associated with a decreased output of hepatic cholesterol into the circulation suggests a functional reciprocal interrelationship between both of the hepatic cholesterol secretory pathways in the rice-protein-fed rats, regardless of rice protein type.
19643157	This study compared the effect of whole grain high-fiber barley, whole grain wheat and refined rice-based foods on energy intake and satiety. Forty-seven healthy subjects consumed a breakfast of hot cereal and a snack mix containing either barley, wheat, or refined rice, followed by an ad libitum smorgasbord lunch using a crossover design. Energy intake was measured at the lunch using plate waste. Hunger, fullness, desire to eat, amount of food consumed, and thirst were assessed using a modified Visual Analog Scale (VAS) before and after the breakfast, snack and lunch. Energy intake at lunch did not differ among products. There were no differences in the area under the time curve in modified VAS scores among products for any parameter. However, subjects reported significantly less hunger before lunch compared to their hunger before breakfast when consuming the barley, but there was no significant reduction in hunger before lunch after consumption of wheat or rice. In conclusion, intake of a whole grain high-fiber barley, whole grain wheat, or refined rice breakfast and snack did not decrease energy intake acutely, but consumption of whole grain high-fiber barley foods significantly decreased hunger whereas whole wheat and refined rice foods did not.
19643896	A bacterial strain designated YC6842T, isolated from the rhizosphere of rice (Oryza sativa L.) managed under no-tillage practice in Jinju, Korea, was characterized using polyphasic taxonomic approach. Cells of the strain were Gram-negatively stained, aerobic, rod-shaped and motile by multiple polar flagella. It grew at a temperature of 20 to 40 degrees C (optimum at 28 degrees C). Growth occurred between pH 6.0 and 10.0, with an optimum of pH 7.0-8.0. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that the strain represented a separate clade within the family Xanthomonadaceae. It showed the highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with Dyella yeojuensis R2A16-10T (93.6 %). The DNA G+C content was 62.6 mol%. Q-8 was the major quinone. Major polar lipids were diphosphatidylglycerol (DPG), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), phosphatidylcholine (PC) and phosphatidylglycerol (PG). Phylogenetic analysis, biochemical and physiological characteristics strongly supported the genotypic and phenotypic differentiation of the strain YC6842T from the validly published genera of the family Xanthomonadaceae. Therefore, it is proposed that the strain YC6842T represents a novel species within a novel genus, with the name Gynumella flava gen. nov., sp. nov. The type strain is YC6842T (= KCTC 22443T = DSM 21636T).
19644752	The present study has evaluated effect of fluroxypyr concentrations 0-0.8 mg l(-1) (a widely-used herbicide for controlling annual or perennial weeds growth) on selected metabolic and stress-related parameters in Oryza sativa plants after 6 days of exposure. Increasing concentrations decreased shoot growth and accumulation of chlorophylls but had no effect on root biomass. Increasing doses led also to increase in superoxide radical, hydrogen peroxide and proline accumulation, while malondialdehyde, an indicator of lipid peroxidation, was constitutively elevated. Histochemical staining with nitroblue tetrazolium and 3, 3-diaminobenzidine were positively correlated with the generation of superoxide radical and H(2)O(2). The fluroxypyr-induced oxidative stress triggered significant changes in activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase and peroxidase (POD). Activities of the antioxidant enzymes show a general increase at low fluroxypyr concentrations and a decrease at high fluroxypyr levels (except for POD). Analysis of naturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis confirmed these results. These data support the observation that fluroxypyr-triggered oxidative stress was responsible for the disturbance of the growth in the rice plants.
19646105	Few studies have been published on the normal intestinal biota of canines unlike the wealth of information regarding livestock animal species. The in vitro gas production technique (IVGPT) including measurements of accumulating gas during fermentation and end-product determinations allows obtaining a complete picture of microbial activity kinetics. The aim of this study was to study the in vitro fermentation characteristics of different carbohydrate sources using inocula from two dog breeds (German Shepherd and Neapolitan mastiff). Faeces sampled from rectum of two GS and NM adult dogs, fed the same dry food, were used as inocula. The samples, diluted and filtered, were incubated at 39 degrees C under anaerobic condition with nine substrates different for carbohydrate composition (rice, corn, potato, spelt, pure cellulose, beet pulp, wheat bran, inulin and fructo-oligosaccharide). Gas production was recorded 17 times using a manual pressure transducer. After 48 h, the fermentation was stopped and fermenting liquor was analysed for pH and volatile fatty acids (VFA). Organic matter digestibility (OMD) was calculated as difference after burning the residuals. OMD, gas production and end-products were significantly correlated with chemical composition of substrates, in particular carbohydrate fractions (total dietary fibre and starch), confirming the effectiveness of the IVGPT in evaluating dog feeds. Concerning the comparison between breeds significant differences (p < 0.01) were found for OMD, gas production, fermentation kinetic parameters and end-products, suggesting a different pathway of fermentation and consequently, a different anaerobic population.
19648232	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are involved in many developmental processes and regulate many subsets of downstream genes throughout the plant kingdom. However, little is known about the BR signal transduction and response network in monocots. To identify novel BR-related genes in rice (Oryza sativa), we monitored the transcriptomic response of the brassinosteroid deficient1 (brd1) mutant, with a defective BR biosynthetic gene, to brassinolide treatment. Here, we describe a novel BR-induced rice gene BRASSINOSTEROID UPREGULATED1 (BU1), encoding a helix-loop-helix protein. Rice plants overexpressing BU1 (BU1:OX) showed enhanced bending of the lamina joint, increased grain size, and resistance to brassinazole, an inhibitor of BR biosynthesis. In contrast to BU1:OX, RNAi plants designed to repress both BU1 and its homologs displayed erect leaves. In addition, compared to the wild type, the induction of BU1 by exogenous brassinolide did not require de novo protein synthesis and it was weaker in a BR receptor mutant OsbriI (Oryza sativa brassinosteroid insensitive1, d61) and a rice G protein alpha subunit (RGA1) mutant d1. These results indicate that BU1 protein is a positive regulator of BR response: it controls bending of the lamina joint in rice and it is a novel primary response gene that participates in two BR signaling pathways through OsBRI1 and RGA1. Furthermore, expression analyses showed that BU1 is expressed in several organs including lamina joint, phloem, and epithelial cells in embryos. These results indicate that BU1 may participate in some other unknown processes modulated by BR in rice.
19648330	A facultatively anaerobic, nitrogen-fixing bacterium, strain MSSRF40(T), was isolated from roots of mangrove-associated wild rice (Porteresia coarctata Tateoka). On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities, strain MSSRF40(T) was shown to belong to the family Enterobacteriaceae, most closely related to Cronobacter muytjensii E603(T) (97.2 % sequence similarity), Enterobacter cloacae subsp. dissolvens LMG 2683(T) (97.1 %), E. radicincitans D5/23(T) (97.1 %) and E. ludwigii EN-119(T) (97.0 %). Sequence analysis of rpoB, gyrB and hsp60 genes showed that strain MSSRF40(T) had relatively low sequence similarity (<91, <84 and <90 %) to recognized species of different genera of the family Enterobacteriaceae and formed an independent phyletic lineage in all phylogenetic analyses using the 16S rRNA, rpoB, gyrB and hsp60 genes, clearly indicating that strain MSSRF40(T) could not be affiliated to any of the recognized genera within the family Enterobacteriaceae. The dominant cellular fatty acids were C(16 : 0), C(16 : 1)omega7c and/or iso-C(15 : 0) 2-OH and C(18 : 1)omega7c, similar to those of other members of the Enterobacteriaceae. The DNA G+C content was 50.1 mol%. Phylogenetic distinctiveness and phenotypic differences from its phylogenetic neighbours indicated that strain MSSRF40(T) represents a novel species and genus within the family Enterobacteriaceae, for which the name Mangrovibacter plantisponsor gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of Mangrovibacter plantisponsor is strain MSSRF40(T) (=LMG 24236(T) =DSM 19579(T)).
19648494	To study the interaction between the levels of protein and fiber on the productive performance and health status of piglets, ninety-six 35-d-old piglets (9.11 +/- 0.60 kg of BW) were placed in 32 pens of 3 animals each and allotted to 4 dietary treatments for 21 d. The 4 diets were based on rice, dairy products, and soybean meal in a 2 x 2 factorial arrangement of treatments, with 2 levels of CP (15.4 vs. 19.4%, as-fed basis) and 2 levels of dietary fiber [DF; low fiber (LF) 5.3% NDF and high fiber (HF) 7.15% NDF, as-fed basis]. The HF diet was developed by supplementing the basal diet with 40 g/kg of wheat bran and 20 g/kg of sugar beet pulp. Animal performance was obtained weekly with samples of feces collected for microbiology on the first and the last experimental day and scored from 1 (liquid) to 4 (hard). On the last day, 1 pig from each pen was sampled for blood analyses of the acute-phase protein, major acute-phase protein of pigs (PigMap) and subsequently killed to register the digestive tract weight (including contents) and colon histology. Pigs fed the HF diets had greater ADG (390 vs. 457 g; P < or = 0.001) and large intestine weight (4.4 vs. 5.4% of BW; P < or = 0.05). This coincided with a greater (P < or = 0.05) short-chain fatty acid concentration (especially of acetic and butyric acids), a decrease in Escherichia coli counts (7.77 vs. 6.86 log of cfu/g of feces, P < or = 0.05), and an increase in the ratio of lactobacilli:enterobacteria (0.76 vs. 1.37, P < or = 0.05). However, CP level did not modify the productive performance, but 20% CP increased P < or = 0.05) the relative weight (% of BW) of the small (6.5 vs. 7.7) and large intestine (3.8 vs. 4.3). In the large bowel, the 20% CP diet increased the numbers of goblet cells (4.6 vs. 5.4/100 microm; P < or = 0.05) and reduced the numbers of intraepithelial lymphocytes (1.8 vs. 1.3/100 microm; P < or = 0.05). In relation to health status, increasing DF was dependent of the dietary CP content. Supplementing the 16% CP diet with DF reduced the fecal score and increased the antibiotics interventions, whereas the opposite was the case in the 20% CP diet. Pigs fed the 20% CP diet showed decreased (P < or = 0.05) PigMap concentrations than pigs fed 16% CP diets. As a whole, CP showed major effects on the gastrointestinal weight and gut barrier integrity, whereas DF increased the productive performance and promoted major changes in the microbial colonization and fermentation variables.
19649160	Pseudogenes are significant components of eukaryotic genomes, and some have acquired novel regulatory roles. To date, no study has characterized rice pseudogenes systematically or addressed their impact on the structure and function of the rice genome. In this genome-wide study, we have identified 11,956 non-transposon-related rice pseudogenes, most of which are from gene duplications. About 12% of the rice protein-coding genes, half of which are in singleton families, have a pseudogene paralog. Interestingly, we found that 145 of these pseudogenes potentially gave rise to antisense small RNAs after examining approximately 1.5 million small RNAs from developing rice grains. The majority (>50%) of these antisense RNAs are 24-nucleotides long, a feature often seen in plant repeat-associated small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) produced by RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR2) and Dicer-like protein 3 (DCL3), suggesting that some pseudogene-derived siRNAs may be implicated in repressing pseudogene transcription (i.e., cis-acting). Multiple lines of evidence, however, indicate that small RNAs from rice pseudogenes might also function as natural antisense siRNAs either by interacting with the complementary sense RNAs from functional parental genes (38 cases) or by forming double-strand RNAs with transcripts of adjacent paralogous pseudogenes (2 cases) (i.e., trans-acting). Further examinations of five additional small RNA libraries revealed that pseudogene-derived antisense siRNAs could be produced in specific rice developmental stages or physiological growth conditions, suggesting their potentially important roles in normal rice development. In summary, our results show that pseudogenes derived from protein-coding genes are prevalent in the rice genome, and a subset of them are strong candidates for producing small RNAs with novel regulatory roles. Our findings suggest that pseudogenes of exapted functions may be a phenomenon ubiquitous in eukaryotic organisms.
19649188	The alpha subunit of heterotrimeric G-proteins (G alpha) is involved in a broad range of aspects of the brassinosteroid (BR) response, such as the enhancement of lamina bending. However, it has been suggested from epistatic analysis of d1 and d61, which are mutants deficient for G alpha and the BR receptor BRI1, that G alpha and BRI1 may function via distinct pathways in many cases. In this study, we investigated further the genetic interaction between G alpha and BRI1. We report the analysis of transformants of T65d1 and T65d1/d61-7 into which were introduced a constitutively active form of G alpha, Q223L. The application of 24-epi-brassinolide (24-epiBL) to T65d1 expressing Q223L still resulted in elongation of the coleoptile and, in fact, it was enhanced over the wild-type plant (WT) level in a concentration dependent manner. In T65d1/d61-7 expressing Q223L, the seed size was enlarged over that of d61-7 due to activation of G alpha. These results suggest that Q223L is able to augment the BR response in response to 24-epiBL and also that Q223L functions independently of BRI1 in the process of determining seed morphology, given that Q223L was functional in the BRI1-deficient mutant, d61-7.
19649611	China is one of the largest centers of genetic diversity of Oryza sativa L. in the world. Using a genetically representative primary core collection of 3,024 rice landraces in China, we analyzed the genetic structure and intraspecific differentiation of O. sativa, and the directional evolution of SSR. The genetic structure was investigated by model-based structure analysis and construction of neighbor-joining phylogenetic tree. Comparison between genetic structure and predefined populations according to Ting's taxonomic system revealed a hierarchical genetic structure: two distinct subspecies, each with three ecotypes and different numbers of geo-ecogroups within each ecotype. Two subspecies evidently resulted from adaptation to different environments. The different cropping systems imposed on the subspecies led to further differentiation, but the variation within each subspecies resulted from different causes. Indica, under tropical-like or lowland-like environments, exhibited clear differentiation among seasonal ecotypes, but not among soil-watery ecotypes; and japonica showed clear differences between soil water regime ecotypes, but not among seasonal ecotypes. Chinese cultivated rice took on evident directional evolution in microsatellite allele size at several aspects, such as subspecies and geographical populations. Japonica has smaller allele sizes than indica, and this may partly be the result of their different domestication times. Allele size was also negatively correlated with latitude and altitude, and this may be interpreted by different mutation rates, selection pressures, and population size effects under different environments and cropping systems.
19650467	Two hundred and twenty-two straw samples, consisting of 170 rice straw samples and 50 wheat straw samples, were collected from 24 provinces of China. Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS)was applied to build quantitative models for calorific value of straw combining the use of principal component regression (PCR), partial least square regression (PLS)and modified partial least square regression (MPLS). Different scatter correction methods and derivative treatments were adopted to help improve the accuracy of NIRS models. A total of 54 NIRS models were obtained and independent validations were conducted using the same validation set of samples. A statistical comparison of independent validation results was then introduced to evaluate whether the models perform significantly. Bias and bias corrected standard error of prediction (SEP(C)), which are the mean and the standard deviation of the prediction residuals respectively, were compared by the proposed statistical procedures. It was concluded that near infrared spectroscopy was able to predict the calorific value of straw samples rapidly and accurately, with resulting SEP(C)s between 134 and 178 J x g(-1); statistical comparison of biases and SEP(C)s was a reasonable and efficient way to compare spectral pre-processing methods, and select NIRS models predicting calorific value of straw.
19650485	With the fluorescent compound conjugates substrates, soil xylanase and cellulose in a free-air carbon dioxide enrichment (FACE) experiment were measured on the base of 96 microplate and fluorescence detection, aiming at testing its feasibility in sacchariase activity measurement. The results show that sacchariase activity can be tested and the data exhibit better repeatability(coefficient of variability <= 4.879%). Compared with spectrophotometric assay, this method allows a large number of soil samples and/or enzymes to be analyzed in a short time accurately and conveniently. Soil xylanase activity tends to be greater at elevated CO2 which significantly increases in jointing, heading and ripening stages of wheat and in heading and ripening stages of rice (P < 0.05), and the crop metabolizes rapidly under FACE condition and soil microorganisms are affected, which causes elevation of xylanase acitivy. Compared with ambient CO2, soil cellulose activity decreased slightly under elevated CO2 but there was no significant difference between treatments, indicating the cellulose activity was not influenced intensively in a short time.
19650503	In the present paper, the contents of 18 mineral elements in milled and brown rice of 55 accessions elite cultivars as well as corresponding soils were determined by ICP-AES technique. The method proves to be simple, rapid, highly sensitive and accurate, and can be used to determine many elements at the same time, its recovery ratio obtained by standard addition method ranged between 93.1% and 110.2%, and its RSD was from 0.8% to 5.1%. The analytical results showed that 18 mineral elements (S, Mo, Ba, Ni, Fe, Cr, Na, Al, Cu, P, Sn, Zn, B, Mn, Mg, Ca, Sr and K) are the important active compositions of functional rice, and their mean contents in milled rice are in the order of P>K>S>Mg>Ca>Zn>Na>Al>Mn>Fe>Cu>B >Mo>Ni>Sn>Cr>Ba>Sr, in brown rice in the order of P>K>Mg>S>Ca>Zn>Mn>Al>Na>Fe>Cu>B>Mo>Sn> Ni>Cr>Ba>Sr, but in soil in the order of Fe>Al>Ca>K>Mg>P>S>Mn>B>Na>Ba>Zn>Cr>Cu>Ni>Sn>Mo> Sr; 16 mineral elements in milled and brown rice (except for S and P) are clearly lower than that in soils. The correlation of 8 microelements (Mo, Ni, Cr, Sr, Mn, Zn, Cu and Na) in milled and brown rice is closer than that of 6 macroelements (P, K, Mg, Ca, S and Al). There are rich Fe, Al and Ca in Yunnan soils, but 4 elements (P, K, Mg and S) are in high priority in milled and brown rice; The milled rice used for the staple is easier to place a premium on chronics than brown rice. The above results provided reliable data and theory bases for genetic breeding and production of functional rice, and for further solving the chronics and the malnourished problems with insufficient Fe, Zn and Ca for 4 billion people in the world.
19651617	Rice is among the 3 most important crops worldwide. While much of the world's rice harvest is based on modern high-yield varieties, traditional varieties of rice grown by indigenous groups have great importance as a resource for future crop improvement. These local landraces represent an intermediate stage of domestication between a wild ancestor and modern varieties and they serve as reservoirs of genetic variation. Such genetic variation is influenced both by natural processes such as selection and drift, and by the agriculture practices of local farmers. How these processes interact to shape and change the population genetics of landrace rice is unknown. Here, we determine the population genetic structure of a single variety of landrace rice, Bue Chomee, cultivated by Karen people of Thailand. Microsatellite markers reveal high level of genetic variation despite predominant inbreeding in the crop. Bue Chomee rice shows slight but significant genetic differentiation among Karen villages. Moreover, genetically determined traits such as flowering time can vary significantly among villages. An unanticipated result was the overall pattern of genetic differentiation across villages which conforms to an isolation by distance model of differentiation. Isolation by distance is observed in natural plant species where the likelihood of gene flow is inversely related to distance. In Karen rice, gene flow is the result of farmers' seed sharing networks. Taken together, these data suggest that landrace rice is a dynamic genetic system that responds to evolutionary forces, both natural and those imposed by humans.
19651988	Abiotic stresses, such as drought and salinity, lead to crop growth damage and a decrease in crop yields. Stomata control CO(2) uptake and optimize water use efficiency, thereby playing crucial roles in abiotic stress tolerance. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) is an important signal molecule that induces stomatal closure. However, the molecular pathway that regulates the H(2)O(2) level in guard cells remains largely unknown. Here, we clone and characterize DST (drought and salt tolerance)-a previously unknown zinc finger transcription factor that negatively regulates stomatal closure by direct modulation of genes related to H(2)O(2) homeostasis-and identify a novel pathway for the signal transduction of DST-mediated H(2)O(2)-induced stomatal closure. Loss of DST function increases stomatal closure and reduces stomatal density, consequently resulting in enhanced drought and salt tolerance in rice. These findings provide an interesting insight into the mechanism of stomata-regulated abiotic stress tolerance, and an important genetic engineering approach for improving abiotic stress tolerance in crops.
19652174	Most elite wheat varieties cannot be crossed with related species thereby restricting greatly the germplasm that can be used for alien introgression in breeding programs. Inhibition to crossability is controlled genetically and a number of QTL have been identified to date, including the major gene Kr1 on 5BL and SKr, a strong QTL affecting crossability between wheat and rye on chromosome 5BS. In this study, we used a recombinant SSD population originating from a cross between the poorly crossable cultivar Courtot (Ct) and the crossable line MP98 to characterize the major dominant effect of SKr and map the gene at the distal end of the chromosome near the 5B homeologous GSP locus. Colinearity with barley and rice was used to saturate the SKr region with new markers and establish orthologous relationships with a 54-kb region on rice chromosome 12. In total, five markers were mapped within a genetic interval of 0.3 cM and 400 kb of BAC contigs were established on both sides of the gene to lay the foundation for map-based cloning of SKr. Two SSR markers completely linked to SKr were used to evaluate a collection of crossable wheat progenies originating from primary triticale breeding programs. The results confirm the major effect of SKr on crossability and the usefulness of the two markers for the efficient introgression of crossability in elite wheat varieties.
19652493	Plants are attractive vaccine production and oral delivery systems. Cereals are excellent candidate for edible vaccines, which can express and store high levels of proteins for extended periods of time without degradation. In this study, we produced a 14-kDa protective surface antigen of Ascaris suum L3 larvae and its fusion chimera with a mucosal carrier molecule cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) under the control of the endosperm-specific glutelin-B promoter. We found that the recombinant protein expression levels reached 1.5 microg per seed, a comparably high amount as compared to previously reported transgenic rice expression experiments. Potentials of transgenic rice plants as a source of oral vaccines against swine roundworm are discussed.
19652701	The soil-dwelling Gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei is the cause of melioidosis. Extreme structuring of genotype and genotypic frequency has been demonstrated for B. pseudomallei in uncultivated land, but its distribution and genetic diversity in agricultural land where most human infections are probably acquired is not well defined. Fixed-interval soil sampling was performed in a rice paddy in northeast Thailand in which 100 grams of soil was sampled at a depth of 30 cm from 10x10 sampling points each measuring 2.5 m by 2.5 m. Soil was cultured for the presence of B. pseudomallei and genotyping of colonies present on primary culture plates was performed using a combination of pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and multilocus sequence typing (MLST). B. pseudomallei was cultured from 28/100 samples. Genotyping of 630 primary colonies drawn from 11 sampling points demonstrated 10 PFGE banding pattern types, which on MLST were resolved into 7 sequence types (ST). Overlap of genotypes was observed more often between sampling points that were closely positioned. Two sampling points contained mixed B. pseudomallei genotypes, each with a numerically dominant genotype and one or more additional genotypes present as minority populations. Genetic diversity and structuring of B. pseudomallei exists despite the effects of flooding and the physical and chemical processes associated with farming. These findings form an important baseline for future studies of environmental B. pseudomallei.
19653105	Plant growth and crop production are limited by environmental stress. We used a large population of transgenic Arabidopsis expressing rice full-length cDNAs to isolate the rice genes that improve the tolerance of plants to environmental stress. By sowing T2 seeds of the transgenic lines under conditions of salinity stress, the salt-tolerant line R07047 was isolated. It expressed a rice gene, OsSMCP1, which encodes a small protein with a single C2 domain, a Ca(2+)-dependent membrane-targeting domain. Retransformation of wild-type Arabidopsis revealed that OsSMCP1 is responsible for conferring the salt tolerance. It is particularly interesting that R07047 and newly constructed OsSMCP1-overexpressing Arabidopsis showed enhanced tolerance not only to high salinity but also to osmotic, dehydrative, and oxidative stresses. Furthermore, R07047 showed improved resistance to Pseudomonas syringae. The OsSMCP1 expression in rice is constitutive. Particle-bombardment-mediated transient expression analysis revealed that OsSMCP1 is targeted to plastids in rice epidermal cells. It induced overexpression of several nuclear encoded genes, including the stress-associated genes, in transgenic Arabidopsis. No marked morphological change or growth retardation was observed in R07047 or retransformants. For molecular breeding to improve the tolerance of crops against environmental stress, OsSMCP1 is a promising candidate.
19656192	Northern peatlands play a major role in the global carbon cycle as sinks for CO(2) and as sources of CH(4). These diverse ecosystems develop through accumulation of partially decomposed plant material as peat. With increasing depth, peat becomes more and more recalcitrant due to its longer exposure to decomposing processes. Compared with surface peat, deeper peat sediments remain microbiologically poorly described. We detected active archaeal communities even in the deep bottom layers (-220/-280 cm) of two Finnish fen-type peatlands by 16S rRNA-based terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. In the sediments of the northern study site, all detected archaea were methanogens with Rice Cluster II (RC-II) and Methanosaetaceae as major groups. In southern peatland, Crenarchaeota of a rare unidentified cluster were present together with mainly RC-II methanogens. RNA profiles showed a larger archaeal diversity than DNA-based community profiles, suggesting that small but active populations were better visualized with rRNA. In addition, potential methane production measurements indicated methanogenic activity throughout the vertical peat profiles.
19656332	Recombinant DNA technology can be used to design and express collagen and gelatin-related proteins with predetermined composition and structure. Barley seed was chosen as a production host for a recombinant full-length collagen type I alpha1 (rCIa1) and a related 45-kDa rCIa1 fragment. The transgenic barley seeds were shown to accumulate both the rCIa1 and the 45-kDa rCIa1 fragment. Even when the amount of the rCIa1 was just above the detection threshold, this work using rCIa1 as a model demonstrated for the first time that barley seed can be used as a production system for collagen-related structural proteins. The 45-kDa rCI1a fragment expression, targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum, was controlled by three different promoters (a constitutive maize ubiquitin, seed endosperm-specific rice glutelin and germination-specific barley alpha-amylase fusion) to compare their effects on rCIa1 accumulation. Highest accumulation of the 45-kDa rCIa1 was obtained with the glutelin promoter (140 mg/kg seed), whereas the lowest accumulation was obtained with the alpha-amylase promoter. To induce homozygosity for stable 45-kDa rCIa1 production in the transgenic lines, doubled haploid (DH) progeny was generated through microspore culture. The 45-kDa rCIa1 expression levels achieved from the best DH lines were 13 mg/kg dry seeds under the ubiquitin promoter and 45 mg/kg dry seeds under the glutelin promoter. Mass spectroscopy and amino acid composition analysis of the purified 45-kDa rCIa1 fragment revealed that a small percent of prolines were hydroxylated with no additional detectable post-translational modifications.
19656341	The jasmonic acid (JA) pathway plays a central role in plant defense responses against insects. Some phloem-feeding insects also induce the salicylic acid (SA) pathway, thereby suppressing the plant's JA response. These phenomena have been well studied in dicotyledonous plants, but little is known about them in monocotyledons. We cloned a chloroplast-localized type 2 13-lipoxygenase gene of rice, OsHI-LOX, whose transcripts were up-regulated in response to feeding by the rice striped stem borer (SSB) Chilo suppressalis and the rice brown planthopper (BPH) Niaparvata lugens, as well as by mechanical wounding and treatment with JA. Antisense expression of OsHI-LOX (as-lox) reduced SSB- or BPH-induced JA and trypsin protease inhibitor (TrypPI) levels, improved the larval performance of SBB as well as that of the rice leaf folder (LF) Cnaphalocrocis medinalis, and increased the damage caused by SSB and LF larvae. In contrast, BPH, a phloem-feeding herbivore, showed a preference for settling and ovipositing on WT plants, on which they consumed more and survived better than on as-lox plants. The enhanced resistance of as-lox plants to BPH infestation correlated with higher levels of BPH-induced H(2)O(2) and SA, as well as with increased hypersensitive response-like cell death. These results imply that OsHI-LOX is involved in herbivore-induced JA biosynthesis, and plays contrasting roles in controlling rice resistance to chewing and phloem-feeding herbivores. The observation that suppression of JA activity results in increased resistance to an insect indicates that revision of the generalized plant defense models in monocotyledons is required, and may help develop novel strategies to protect rice against insect pests.
19656441	To explore the food intake of young migrants living in Germany. Children and adolescents aged 0 to 17 years living in Germany, including 17.1 % with a migration background, were examined in a representative health survey. Food frequency data of 7186 boys and 6919 girls, aged 3 to 17 years, were analysed separately for Turkish, Russian Germans, other migrants and non-migrants. Daily food intake was calculated and a healthy diet score was used to allow an overall interpretation of the diet. Using stepwise linear regression, the association between migrant status and healthy diet score was analysed. Turkish participants (4.8 %) consumed significantly more soft drinks, fried potatoes, chocolate cream and snacks than all other groups and significantly less meat than other migrants and non-migrants. Turkish as well as other migrants (8.8 %) ate more poultry, fish and pasta/rice, and less sausage/bacon and cooked potatoes, than Russian Germans and non-migrants. Russian Germans (3.5 %) consumed less cooked vegetables than non-migrants and other migrants. Non-migrants had a better mean dietary score than Russian Germans and other migrants. A less preferable diet score was associated with higher age, male sex, being a migrant from Russia, low or middle socio-economic status, and living in rural or provincial areas. The study showed considerable differences in dietary habits between young persons of different origin. This underlines the importance of focusing on ethnic groups in dietary interventions.
19656819	The alpha' and beta subunits of soybean beta-conglycinin were expressed in rice seeds in order to improve the nutritional and physiological properties of rice as a food. The alpha' subunit accumulated in rice seeds at a higher level than the beta subunit, but no detectable difference in mRNA transcription level between subunits was observed. Sequential extraction results indicate that the alpha' subunit formed one or more disulphide bonds with glutelin. Electron microscopic analysis showed that the alpha' subunit and the beta subunit were transported to PB-II together with glutelin. In mature transgenic seeds, the beta subunit accumulated in low electron density regions in the periphery of PB-II, whereas the alpha' subunit accumulated together with glutelin in high-density regions of the periphery. The subcellular localization of mutated alpha' subunits lacking one cysteine residue in the N-terminal mature region (alpha'DeltaCys1) or five cysteine residues in the pro and N-terminal mature regions (alpha'DeltaCys5) were also examined. Low-density regions were formed in PB-II in mature seeds of transgenic rice expressing alpha'DeltaCys 5 and alpha'DeltaCys1. alpha'DeltaCys5 was localized only in the low-density regions, whereas alpha'DeltaCys1 was found in both low- and high-density regions. These results suggest that the alpha' subunit could make a complex via one or more disulphide bonds with glutelin and accumulate together in PB-II of transgenic rice seeds.
19656904	In rice (Oryza sativa) adventitious root primordia are formed at the nodes as part of normal development. Upon submergence of rice plants, adventitious roots emerge from the nodes preceded by death of epidermal cells above the root primordia. Cell death is induced by ethylene and mediated by hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Pharmacological experiments indicated that epidermal cell death was dependent on signaling through G proteins. Treatment with GTP-gamma-S induced epidermal cell death, whereas GDP-beta-S partially inhibited ethylene-induced cell death. The dwarf1 (d1) mutant of rice has repressed expression of the Galpha subunit RGA1 of heterotrimeric G protein. In d1 plants, cell death in response to ethylene and H(2)O(2) was nearly completely abolished, indicating that signaling through Galpha is essential. Ethylene and H(2)O(2) were previously shown to alter gene expression in epidermal cells that undergo cell death. Transcriptional regulation was not generally affected in the d1 mutant, indicating that altered gene expression is not sufficient to trigger cell death in the absence of Galpha. Analysis of genes encoding proteins related to G protein signaling revealed that four small GTPase genes, two GTPase-activating protein genes, and one GDP dissociation inhibitor gene but not RGA1 were differentially expressed in epidermal cells above adventitious roots, indicating that Galpha activity is regulated posttranscriptionally.
19657748	Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli is one of the leading causes of diarrhea in developing countries, and the disease may be fatal in the absence of treatment. Enterotoxigenic E. coli heat-labile toxin B subunit (LTB) can be used as an adjuvant, as a carrier of fused antigens, or as an antigen itself. The synthetic LTB (sLTB) gene, optimized for plant codon usage, has been introduced into rice cells by particle bombardment-mediated transformation. The integration and expression of the sLTB gene were observed via genomic DNA PCR and western blot analysis, respectively. The binding activity of LTB protein expressed in transgenic rice callus to G(M1)-ganglioside, a receptor for biologically active LTB, was confirmed by G(M1)-ELISA. Oral inoculation of mice with lyophilized transgenic rice calli containing LTB generated significant IgG antibody titers against bacterial LTB, and the sera of immunized mice inhibited the binding of bacterial LTB to G(M1)-ganglioside. Mice orally immunized with non-transgenic rice calli failed to generate detectable anti-LTB IgG antibody titers. Mice immunized with plant-produced LTB generated higher IgG1 antibody titers than IgG2a, indicating a Th2-type immune response. Mice orally immunized with lyophilized transgenic rice calli containing LTB elicited higher fecal IgA antibody titers than mice immunized with non-transgenic rice calli. These experimental results demonstrate that LTB proteins produced in transgenic rice callus and given to mice by oral administration induce humoral and secreted antibody immune responses. We suggest that transgenic rice callus may be suitable as a plant-based edible vaccine to provide effective protection against enterotoxigenic E. coli heat-labile toxin.
19660427	Hantaviruses, family Bunyaviridae, are rodent-borne RNA viruses that have caused cases of hantavirus cardiopulmonary syndrome (HCPS) in various regions of the Americas. There are five hantaviral lineages associated with HCPS in Brazil: Juquitiba virus (JUQV), Araraquara virus (ARAV), Laguna Negra-like virus (LNV), Castelo dos Sonhos virus (CASV), and Anajatuba virus (ANAJV). Three additional hantaviruses have been described in rodents alone: Rio Mearim virus, Jaborá virus, and a hantavirus lineage related to Seoul virus. This study describes the genetic detection and characterization of a Juquitiba-like hantavirus in Oligoryzomys nigripes, or the black-footed pygmy rice rat, in the Serra dos Orgãos National Park, Rio de Janeiro State, where so far no cases of HCPS have been reported.
19661422	Flowering time is a complex trait that controls adaptation of plants to their local environment in the outcrossing species Zea mays (maize). We dissected variation for flowering time with a set of 5000 recombinant inbred lines (maize Nested Association Mapping population, NAM). Nearly a million plants were assayed in eight environments but showed no evidence for any single large-effect quantitative trait loci (QTLs). Instead, we identified evidence for numerous small-effect QTLs shared among families; however, allelic effects differ across founder lines. We identified no individual QTLs at which allelic effects are determined by geographic origin or large effects for epistasis or environmental interactions. Thus, a simple additive model accurately predicts flowering time for maize, in contrast to the genetic architecture observed in the selfing plant species rice and Arabidopsis.
19661696	The APSES protein family includes important transcriptional regulators of morphological processes in ascomycetes. We identified a deletion mutant of the APSES protein Mstu1 in Magnaporthe grisea that showed reduced conidiation and mycelial growth. Mstu1 formed a number of appressoria comparable to the wild type, although appressorium formation was delayed. In M. grisea, rapid transfer of conidial glycogen and lipid droplets to incipient appressoria is required for appressorial turgor generation, which the fungus uses to penetrate plant cuticles. Appressorial turgor was low in mstu1 and the mutant was deficient in appressorium-mediated invasion of rice leaves. The transfer of conidial glycogen and lipid droplets was remarkably delayed in mstu1, and a consequent delay in degradation of these conidial reserves was observed. Our results indicate that Mstu1 is required for appressorium-mediated infection due to its involvement in the mobilization of lipids and glycogen.
19661697	Rice bran contains various polyphenolic compounds with anti-oxidative activities, and it has long been known to inhibit melanogenesis, but the inhibition mechanism has not been fully elucidated. Cofermentation of rice bran with Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Saccharomyces cerevisiae significantly reduced the cytotoxicity of the resulting extract to B16F1 melanoma cells. Marked reduction of alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH) induced melanin synthesis was also observed upon treatment with fermented rice bran extract but it had no direct inhibitory effect on tyrosinase activity, while the intracellular tyrosinase activity was reduced by the extract. This result was further confirmed by an immunoblot assay measuring the level of tyrosinase protein. In addition, the expression of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), a key regulator of melanogenesis, was significantly decreased by the extract. All together, the fermented rice bran extracts showed an inhibitory effect on melanogenesis through downregulation of MITF, along with reduced cytotoxicity.
19661718	OsWRKY53, a chitin oligosaccharide elicitor-responsive rice WRKY gene, has been found to be involved in defense responses in rice. We identified three tandem W-box elements, putative recognition sites for WRKY transcription factors, as cis elements that are essential to the elicitor-responsiveness of OsWRKY53 by deletion and mutation analysis of the promoter by dual luciferase assay.
19662660	It is possible that a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (G143A mutation) in the cytochrome b gene could confer resistance to quinone outside inhibiting (QoI) fungicides (strobilurins) in rice blast fungus because this mutation caused a high level of resistance to fungicides such as azoxystrobin in Pyricularia grisea Sacc. and other fungal plant pathogens. The aim of this study was to survey Magnaporthe oryzae B Couch sp. nov. isolates in Japan for resistance to QoIs, and to try to develop molecular detection methods for QoI resistance. A survey on the QoI resistance among M. oryzae isolates from rice was conducted in Japan. A total of 813 single-spore isolates of M. oryzae were tested for their sensitivity to azoxystrobin using a mycelial growth test on PDA. QoI fungicide resistance was not found among these isolates. The introduction of G143A mutation into a plasmid containing the cytochrome b gene sequence of rice blast fungus was achieved by site-directed mutagenesis. Molecular diagnostic methods were developed for identifying QoI resistance in rice blast fungus using the plasmid construct. As the management of rice blast disease is often dependent on chemicals, the rational design of control programmes requires a proper understanding of the fungicide resistance phenomenon in field populations of the pathogen. Mutation of the cytochrome b gene of rice blast fungus would be specifically detected from diseased leaves and seeds using the molecular methods developed in this study.
19663477	A method for interpreting multiple-detection size separation data of complex branched homopolymers [Konkolewicz, D.; Gilbert, R. G.; Gray-Weale, A. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2007, 98, 238301] is applied to starch. The method, whose application is described in detail, uses the sample's weight and number distributions over polymer sizes, along with the molecular weight distribution of the individual branches (or their average degree of polymerization). The branch-length and number size distributions are used to generate the weight distribution of a hypothetical molecule with the same branch-length and number distributions but where the branches are randomly joined; this reference weight distribution is then compared to the actual one. The method is applied to size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) data for starch from a particular rice variety, the first time such data have been reported for a native starch. Comparison with the randomly branched reference function shows that the amylopectin component is consistent with random branching on the distance scale of this measurement, 10(2)-10(3) nm. This implies that on the size scale commensurate with that of a whole amylopectin chain, branching is pseudorandom, even though there is nonrandom branching on the much smaller scale of individual branches and clusters.
19664354	A boy with autism, growth and developmental retardation was brought to our clinic. He was diagnosed with CHARGE syndrome. Subsequently, various therapies were introduced when he was 5 months old yet the developmental delays persisted. Gastrointestinal problems such as frequent post-prandial vomiting and severe constipation were noted as well. At the age of 42 months, the boy was subjected to a gluten and casein-free diet. Soybean milk and rice were substituted for cow's milk, bread and noodles. After 2.5 months, interpersonal relations including eye to eye contact and verbal communication improved. At 5.5 months the boy was capable of playing and sharing toys with his sibling and other children, behavior noted to be closer to that of an unaffected child. In addition, the decreased frequency of postprandial vomiting led to a significant increment in body weight, body height (from below the third percentile to the tenth percentile) and vitality after 11 months on the diet. In view of the lack of consensus on the benefits of dietary intervention in patients with autism, we are suggesting an adjuvant therapy that is simple, safe and economical. In addition, the therapy may be more feasible in Taiwan as opposed to western countries because of cultural factors such as dietary preference and product availability.
19664599	Histone deacetylases (HDAC) are important in plant gene expression. Here we show that the expression of rice HDAC genes is both tissue/organ-specific, and most of them are responsive to drought or salt stresses. Over-expression of several rice HDACs did not produce any visible phenotype, whereas down-regulation of a few HDAC genes affected different developmental aspects. Specifically, down-regulation of HDA703 by amiRNA reduced rice peduncle elongation and fertility, while inactivation of a closely related homolog HDA710 by RNAi affected vegetative growth. HDA704 RNAi altered plant height and flag leaf morphology. Down-regulation of HDT702 led to the production of narrowed leaves and stems. These data suggest that rice HDAC genes may have divergent developmental functions compared with closely related homologs in Arabidopsis.
19664734	Herbaspirillum seropedicae is an endophytic bacterium that associates with rice, sugarcane and other economically important crops. Secreted proteins play a key role in the plant-bacterial interaction. Using 2D electrophoresis and peptide mass fingerprint mass spectrometry, 63 protein spots representing 41 different secreted proteins were identified during growth of H. seropedicae under nitrogen-sufficient conditions. In silico analysis showed that 25.4% of the proteins had signal peptides and 15.9% were predicted to be non-classically secreted. Among the most abundant were flagellar components and ABC-type transport system proteins. Nine secreted proteins had also been identified in the cellular proteome, suggesting that they also play a role in the extracellular environment. No type III secreted proteins were detected by comparison of the wild type strain with an hrcN mutant strain.
19664917	In this paper, the effects of fluidization velocity, bed temperature and fuel feeding rate on the defluidization time and agglomerate fraction in the fluidized bed combustion of rice straw were studied. The fuel ash, necks in agglomerates and coating layers of bed particles were studied by means of the scanning electron microscope, coupled with energy-dispersive spectroscopy (SEM/EDS). Results showed that the stickiness of bed particles induced by coating layers is the direct reason for bed defluidization. The alkali metals such as K and Na mainly exist in the outer layer of rice straw particles. During combustion the high temperature can cause the alkali species melting and coating the surfaces of ash particles. Consequently, ash particles become sticky and tend to adhere to the surfaces of bed particles. The large-sized ash particles may act as the necks in the formation of agglomerates. The small-sized ash particles may contribute to the formation of coating layers.
19665012	The adaxial-abaxial axis in leaf primordia is thought to be established first and is necessary for the expansion of the leaf lamina along the mediolateral axis. To understand axis information in leaf development, we isolated the adaxialized leaf1 (adl1) mutant in rice, which forms abaxially rolled leaves. adl1 leaves are covered with bulliform-like cells, which are normally distributed only on the adaxial surface. An adl1 double mutant with the adaxially snowy leaf mutant, which has albino cells that specifically appear in the abaxial mesophyll tissue, indicated that adl1 leaves show adaxialization in both epidermal and mesophyll tissues. The expression of HD-ZIPIII genes in adl1 mutant increased in mature leaves, but not in the young primordia or the SAM. This indicated that ADL1 may not be directly involved in determining initial leaf polarity, but rather is associated with the maintenance of axis information. ADL1 encodes a plant-specific calpain-like cysteine proteinase orthologous to maize DEFECTIVE KERNEL1. Furthermore, we identified intermediate and strong alleles of the adl1 mutant that generate shootless embryos and globular-arrested embryos with aleurone layer loss, respectively. We propose that ADL1 plays an important role in pattern formation of the leaf and embryo by promoting proper epidermal development.
19665023	Cytosolic thioredoxins are small conserved proteins that are involved in cellular redox regulation. Here, we report that a major and cold-induced thioredoxin h of rice, OsTrx23, has an inhibitory activity on stress-activated mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), OsMPK3 and OsMPK6 in vitro. This inhibition effects were redox-dependent and did not involve stable physical interaction. The data suggested a novel mechanism for redox regulation of MAPKs in plants.
1966507	Insoluble, soluble and total dietary fiber (DF) were determined in 35 varieties of certified whole seeds (without processing) of cereals (rice, oat, rye, and wheat) and legumes (pea, cowpea, beans, chikpea, lentil and lupine). The enzymatic method of Asp, Johansson and Siljestrom was used, with modifications in relation to time of incubation with alpha amylase, filtration system and volumes of the filtrates. Results were expressed as g/100 g dry weight. Total DF for cereals showed a range from 10.1 (wheat var. Chasqui) to 22.2 (rice var Quella). Rye, var. Tetra Baer and oats var. Pony Baer presented the highest soluble fiber content (3.3 and 3.9, respectively). In legumes, total DF fluctuated between 12.7 (pea, var. yellow) and 36.6 (lupine, var. Multolupa). Bean, var. Pinto INIA and lupine var. Multolupa presented the highest soluble fiber values (5.8 for both). Based on the results of this research work, it might be concluded that great variation exists in regard to the amount of total soluble and insoluble DF in cereals and legumes, a fact which impedes generalization as to its content in each food item.
19665603	Rice-expressed cholera toxin B (CTB) subunit is a cold-chain-free oral vaccine that effectively induces enterotoxin-neutralising immunity. We created another rice-based vaccine, MucoRice, expressing nontoxic double-mutant cholera toxin (dmCT) with CTA and CTB subunits. Western-blot analysis suggested that MucoRice-dmCT had the shape of a multicomponent vaccine. Oral administration of MucoRice-dmCT induced CTB- but not CTA-specific serum IgG and mucosal IgA antibodies, generating protective immunity against cholera toxin without inducing rice-protein-specific antibody responses. The potency of MucoRice-dmCT was equal to that of MucoRice-CTB vaccine. MucoRice has the potential to be used as a safe multicomponent vaccine expression system.
19665755	The influence of biodegradable chelating ligands on arsenic and iron uptake by hydroponically grown rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) was investigated. Even though the growth solution contained sufficient Fe, the growth of rice seedlings gradually decreased up to 76% with the increase of pH of the solution from 7 to 11. Iron forms insoluble ferric hydroxide complexes at neutral or alkaline pH in oxic condition. Chelating ligands produce soluble 'Fe-ligand complex' which assist Fe uptake in plants. The biodegradable chelating ligand hydroxyiminodisuccinic acid (HIDS) was more efficient then those of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), ethylenediaminedisuccinic acid (EDDS), and iminodisuccinic acid (IDS) in the increase of Fe uptake and growth of rice seedling. A total of 79+/-20, 87+/-6, 116+/-15, and 63+/-18mg dry biomass of rice seedlings were produced with the addition of 0.5mM of EDDS, EDTA, HIDS, and IDS in the nutrient solution, respectively. The Fe concentrations in rice tissues were 117+/-15, 82+/-8, 167+/-25, and 118+/-22micromolg(-1) dry weights when 0.25mM of EDDS, EDTA, HIDS, and IDS were added to the nutrient solution, respectively. Most of the Fe accumulated in rice tissues was stored in roots after the addition of chelating ligands in the solution. The results indicate that the HIDS would be a potential alternative to environmentally persistent EDTA for the increase of Fe uptake and plant growth. The HIDS also increased As uptake in rice root though its translocation from root to shoot was not augmented. This study reports HIDS for the first time as a promising chelating ligand for the enhancement of Fe bioavailability and As phytoextraction.
19666483	The developing endosperm of rice (Oryza sativa, Os) synthesizes a large amount of storage proteins on the rough (r)ER. The major storage proteins, glutelins and prolamins, contain either intra or intermolecular disulfide bonds, and oxidative protein folding is necessary for the sorting of the proteins to the protein bodies. Here, we investigated an electron transfer pathway for the formation of protein disulfide bonds in the rER of the rice endosperm, focusing on the roles of the thiol-disulfide oxidoreductase, OsEro1. Confocal microscopic analysis revealed that N-glycosylated OsEro1 is localized to the rER membrane in the subaleurone cells, and that targeting of OsEro1 to the rER membrane depends on the N-terminal region from Met-1 to Ser-55. The RNAi knockdown of OsERO1 inhibited the formation of native disulfide bonds in the glutelin precursors (proglutelins) and promoted aggregation of the proglutelins through nonnative intermolecular disulfide bonds in the rER. Inhibition of the formation of native disulfide bonds was also observed in the seeds of the esp2 mutant, which lacks protein disulfide isomerase-like (PDIL)1;1, but shows enhanced OsEro1 expression. We detected the generation of H(2)O(2) in the rER of the WT subaleurone cells, whereas the rER-derived H(2)O(2) levels decreased markedly in EM49 homozygous mutant seeds, which have fewer sulfhydryl groups than the WT seeds. Together, we propose that the formation of native disulfide bonds in proglutelins depends on an electron transfer pathway involving OsEro1 and OsPDIL.
19666784	A novel endophytic actinomycete, strain GMKU 367(T), was isolated from roots of Thai glutinous rice plants (Oryza sativa L. 'RD6') collected from Pathum Thani Rice Research Center, Pathum Thani province, Thailand. Strain GMKU 367(T) formed cylindrical spores on aerial mycelium, but sporangium-like structures and fragmentation of substrate mycelium were not observed. The cell-wall amino acids contained meso-diaminopimelic acid, alanine, glutamic acid and acetylated muramic acid. The whole-cell sugars were arabinose, galactose, mannose, rhamnose and ribose. Major fatty acids were iso-C(15 : 0), iso-C(16 : 0) and C(16 : 0). The diagnostic menaquinone was MK-9(H(4)). The polar phospholipids were phosphatidylethanolamine and hydroxyphosphatidylethanolamine. The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 71.1 mol%. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequence data indicated that strain GMKU 367(T) differed from members of the family Pseudonocardiaceae. On the basis of the evidence presented in this polyphasic study, it is proposed that strain GMKU 367(T) represents a novel species in a new genus in the family Pseudonocardiaceae, with the name Actinophytocola oryzae gen. nov., sp. nov.; the type strain of Actinophytocola oryzae is GMKU 367(T) (=BCC 31372(T) =NBRC 105245(T)).
19667385	Four Gram-stain-positive, aerobic or facultatively anaerobic, motile, endospore-forming, rod-shaped bacteria, designated strains FeL05(T), FeL11, Fek19 and Fek21, were isolated from seeds of hybrid rice (Oryza sativa L. Jinyou 611), and their taxonomic positions were determined using a polyphasic approach. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the four strains were members of the genus Paenibacillus. They showed 95.4 % sequence similarity or less with strains of other Paenibacillus species. The G+C content of strain FeL05(T) was found to be 53.3 mol%. Its predominant respiratory quinone was MK-7. The predominant cellular fatty acids were anteiso-C(15 : 0) (61.7 %), C(16 : 0) (10.9 %), iso-C(16 : 0) (7.0 %), anteiso-C(17 : 0) (6.7 %) and iso-C(15 : 0) (5.2 %). On the basis of its phenotypic properties and phylogenetic distinctiveness, strain FeL05(T) represents a novel species of the genus Paenibacillus, for which the name Paenibacillus hunanensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is strain FeL05(T) (=ACCC 10718(T) =CGMCC 1.8907(T) =DSM 22170(T)).
19669626	We reported previously that overexpression of a salicylic acid (SA) methyltransferase1 gene from rice (OsBSMT1) or a SA glucosyltransferase1 gene from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtSAGT1) leads to increased susceptibility to Pseudomonas syringae due to reduced SA levels. To further examine their roles in the defense responses, we assayed the transcript levels of AtBSMT1 or AtSAGT1 in plants with altered levels of SA and/or other defense components. These data showed that AtSAGT1 expression is regulated partially by SA, or non-expressor of pathogenesis related protein1, whereas AtBSMT1 expression was induced in SA-deficient mutant plants. In addition, we produced the transgenic Arabidopsis plants with RNAi-mediated inhibition of AtSAGT1 and isolated a null mutant of AtBSMT1 and then analyzed their phenotypes. A T-DNA insertion mutation in the AtBSMT1 resulted in reduced methyl salicylate (MeSA) levels upon P. syringae infection. However, accumulation of SA and glucosyl SA was similar in both the atbsmt1 and wild-type plants, indicating the presence of another SA methyltransferase or an alternative pathway for MeSA production. The AtSAGT1-RNAi line exhibited no altered phenotypes upon pathogen infection, compared to wild-type plants, suggesting that (an)other SA glucosyltransferase(s) in Arabidopsis plants may be important for the pathogenesis of P. syringae.
19669727	Brown planthopper (BPH) is one of the most destructive insect pests of rice. Wild species of rice are a valuable source of resistance genes for developing resistant cultivars. A molecular marker-based genetic analysis of BPH resistance was conducted using an F(2) population derived from a cross between an introgression line, 'IR71033-121-15', from Oryza minuta (Accession number 101141) and a susceptible Korean japonica variety, 'Junambyeo'. Resistance to BPH (biotype 1) was evaluated using 190 F(3) families. Two major quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and two significant digenic epistatic interactions between marker intervals were identified for BPH resistance. One QTL was mapped to 193.4-kb region located on the short arm of chromosome 4, and the other QTL was mapped to a 194.0-kb region on the long arm of chromosome 12. The two QTLs additively increased the resistance to BPH. Markers co-segregating with the two resistance QTLs were developed at each locus. Comparing the physical map positions of the two QTLs with previously reported BPH resistance genes, we conclude that these major QTLs are new BPH resistance loci and have designated them as Bph20(t) on chromosome 4 and Bph21(t) on chromosome 12. This is the first report of BPH resistance genes from the wild species O. minuta. These two new genes and markers reported here will be useful to rice breeding programs interested in new sources of BPH resistance.
19670545	The prevalence of diabetes mellitus (DM) has rapidly increased in Asian countries including Sri Lanka during the past decade. Scientific data on postprandial glycaemic influence of common meals is essential when formulating diets. Objectives of this study were to analyse glycaemic indices (GI) of five common meals and effects of macronutrients, sources of carbohydrates, and physicochemical properties of starch on observed GI values. The meals analysed were; 1 - red rice (AT 353) meal, 2 - red rice mixed meal, 3 - stringhopper (wheat flour) meal, 4 - stringhopper (rice flour) meal, 5 - manioc (Manihot esculenta) meal. University of Sri Jayewardenepura. Healthy individuals (n=10; age: 20-30 years). GI of each meal was calculated according to FAO/WHO guidelines by taking the ratio of incremental area under blood glucose curve (IAUC) of test and the standard. GI of meals 1-5 were 99 +/- 10, 60 +/- 5, 104 +/- 7, 102 +/- 11 and 120 +/- 9 respectively. The glycaemic response to rice mixed meal was significantly lower (p<0.05) than the others. The total dietary fibre content showed a significant negative correlation (p=0.044) with the GI value while the protein showed a non-significant negative relationship (p>0.05). Red rice had a combination of intact, swollen and disintegrated starch granules while string hoppers and manioc showed only the latter two types. The rice mixed meal has the lowest glycaemic index. Presence of dietary fibre and a legume reduces the glycaemic response. Cooking may change the glycaemic response of certain food.
19671010	Rice sheath blight (ShB), caused by the soilborne pathogen Rhizoctonia solani, annually causes severe losses in yield and quality in many rice production areas worldwide. Jasmine 85 is an indica cultivar that has proven to have a high level of resistance to this pathogen. The objective of this study was to determine the ability of controlled environment inoculation assays to detect ShB resistance quantitative trait loci (QTLs) in a cross derived from the susceptible cv. Lemont and the resistant cv. Jasmine 85. The disease reactions of 250 F(5) recombinant inbred lines (RILs) were measured on the seedlings inoculated using microchamber and mist-chamber assays under greenhouse conditions. In total, 10 ShB-QTLs were identified on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 9 using these two methods. The microchamber method identified four of five new ShB-QTLs, one on each of chromosomes 1, 3, 5, and 6. Both microchamber and mist-chamber methods identified two ShB-QTLs, qShB1 and qShB9-2. Four of the ShB-QTLs or ShB-QTL regions identified on chromosomes 2, 3, and 9 were previously reported in the literature. The major ShB-QTL qShB9-2, which cosegregated with simple sequence repeat (SSR) marker RM245 on chromosome 9, contributed to 24.3 and 27.2% of total phenotypic variation in ShB using microchamber and mistchamber assays, respectively. qShB9-2, a plant-stage-independent QTL, was also verified in nine haplotypes of 10 resistant Lemont/Jasmine 85 RILs using haplotype analysis. These results suggest that multiple ShB-QTLs are involved in ShB resistance and that microchamber and mist-chamber methods are effective for detecting plant-stage-independent QTLs. Furthermore, two SSR markers, RM215 and RM245, are robust markers and can be used in marker-assisted breeding programs to improve ShB resistance.
19671012	ABSTRACT Sheath blight disease (SBD) on rice, caused by Rhizoctonia solani AG-1 IA, is one of the most devastating rice diseases on a global basis, including China (in Eastern Asia), the world's largest rice-growing country. We analyzed the population genetics of nine rice-infecting populations from China using nine microsatellite loci. One allopatric population from India (Southern Asia) was included in the analyses. In total, 300 different multilocus genotypes were found among 572 fungal isolates. Clonal fractions within rice fields were 16 to 95%, suggesting that sclerotia were a major source of primary inoculum in some fields. Global Phi(ST) statistics (Phi(ST) = 42.49; P </= 0.001) were consistent with a relatively high level of differentiation among populations overall; however, pairwise comparisons gave nonsignificant R(ST) values, consistent with contemporary gene flow among five of the populations. Four of these populations were located along the Yangtze River tributary network. Gene flow followed an isolation-by-distance model consistent with restricted long-distance migration. Historical migration rates were reconstructed and yielded values that explained the current levels of population subdivision. Except for one population which appeared to be strictly clonal, all populations showed evidence of a mixed reproductive mode, including both asexual and sexual reproduction. One population had a strictly recombining structure (all loci were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium) but the remaining populations from China and the one from India exhibited varying degrees of sexual reproduction. Six populations showed significant F(IS) values consistent with inbreeding.
19673409	To better understand the structure and biological function of rbfCxoo, a gene with the putative function in lipopolysaccharide O-antigen synthesis in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causal pathogen of bacterial blight of rice. The molecular identification and function analysis of rbfCxoo were performed through gene cloning, sequencing and deletion analysis. The sequence of rbfCxoo cloned from the genomic DNA of wild-type PXO99(A) was the same as that of the sequenced strain KACC10331. There were glycosyltransferase domains (Glycos_transf_2) at N and C terminal of RbfCxoo respectively. The deletion mutant delta rbfCxoo generated through a double crossover recombination and validated by PCR assay displayed the reduced flagellin glycosylation and no change in lipopolysaccharide O-antigen synthesis compared with PXO99(A). Moreover, no significant changes in flagellar mobility, biofilm formation and production of extracellular cellulase and xylanase in vitro were observed in delta rbfCxoo compared to PXO99(A). Most importantly, the deletion mutation of rbfCxoo resulted in enhanced virulence and gene expression. RbfCxoo might be related to flagellin glycosylation and virulence expression in Xoo.
19673700	Improving essential amino acids or protein content, along with other phytonutrients in the food crops, will affect a great portion of the world population, especially in developing countries where rice grain is the main source of protein. Malnutrition, including deficiencies in protein/energy, iron/zinc, vitamin A, and iodine, causes a total 24,000 deaths per day worldwide. The problem is severe where rice is the major staple food. Protein deficiency involves both the quantity (amount) and quality (the content in essential amino acids) of the dietary protein. Various interventions, such as distribution, fortification, dietary diversification, and measures against infectious diseases, have been applied to reduce deficiency disorders. The problem, however, remains unsolved. Developing genetically novel lines with elevated content of essential amino acids together with other health benefit components becomes more feasible for the enhancement of breeding techniques, genomics, molecular manipulations, and genetic engineering. Advancement in basic genetic and genetic engineering has resulted in successful enrichment of some essential amino acids, such as lysine (Lys), tryptophan (Trp), and methionine (Met). Successful genetic enhancement has been largely restricted to the maize crop through enrichment of grain Lys and to some extends Trp. Since rice is the main source of calories and protein intake for billions of people, enhancing essential amino acids in rice represents a tremendous challenge. This paper will discuss and review the current status in basic genetics, molecular genetics, and genetic engineering associated with the enhancement of amino acids and other health benefit components in major grain crop improvement. Patents and future efforts associated with enhancing nutritional quality of the grain will also be reviewed as a concerted effort to solve the malnutrition problem and improve the quality of life worldwide.
19674325	Molecular cloning of major quantitative trait loci (QTLs) responsible for the reduction of rice grain shattering, a hallmark of cereal domestication, provided opportunities for in-depth investigation of domestication processes. Here, we studied nucleotide variation at the shattering loci, sh4 and qSH1, for cultivated rice, Oryza sativa ssp. indica and Oryza sativa ssp. japonica, and the wild progenitors, Oryza nivara andOryza rufipogon. The nonshattering sh4 allele was fixed in all rice cultivars, with levels of sequence polymorphism significantly reduced in both indica and japonica cultivars relative to the wild progenitors. The sh4 phylogeny together with the neutrality tests and coalescent simulations suggested that sh4 had a single origin and was fixed by artificial selection during the domestication of rice. Selection on qSH1 was not detected in indica and remained unclear in japonica. Selection on sh4 could be strong enough to have driven its fixation in a population of cultivated rice within a period of c. 100 yr. The slow fixation of the nonshattering phenotype observed at the archeological sites might be a result of relatively weak selection on mutations other than sh4 in early rice cultivation. The fixation of sh4 could have been achieved later through strong selection for the optimal phenotype.
19674331	*Red rice, a major agricultural weed, is phenotypically diverse and possesses traits that are similar to both wild and cultivated rice. The genetic resources available for rice make it possible to examine the molecular basis and evolution of traits characterizing this weed. Here, we assess the phenol reaction - a classical trait for distinguishing among cultivated rice varieties - in red rice at the phenotypic and molecular levels. *We phenotyped more than 100 US weed samples for the phenol reaction and sequenced the underlying Phr1 locus in a subset of samples. Data were analyzed in combination with previously published Phr1 data for cultivated rice. *Most weed accessions (96.3%) are positive for the phenol reaction, and samples with a negative response carry loss-of-function alleles that are rare or heretofore undocumented. One such allele may have evolved through mutational convergence of a 1-bp frameshift insertion. Haplotype sharing between red rice and US cultivars suggests occasional crop-weed hybridization. *Our discovery of previously undocumented nonfunctional phr1 alleles suggests that there are likely to be other loss-of-function mutations segregating in Oryza sativa around the world. Red rice may provide a useful study system for understanding the adaptive significance of Phr1 variation in agricultural settings.
19674751	Ultrasound-assisted dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction coupled with high-performance liquid chromatography-fluorescence detection was used for the extraction and determination of three biogenic amines including octopamine, tyramine and phenethylamine in rice wine samples. Fluorescence probe 2,6-dimethyl-4-quinolinecarboxylic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester was applied for derivatization of biogenic amines. Acetonitrile and 1-octanol were used as disperser solvent and extraction solvent, respectively. Extraction conditions including the type of extraction solvent, the volume of extraction solvent, ultrasonication time and centrifuging time were optimized. After extraction and centrifuging, analyte was injected rapidly into high-performance liquid chromatography and then detected with fluorescence. The calibration graph of the proposed method was linear in the range of 5-500 microg mL(-1) (octopamine and tyramine) and 0.025-2.5 microg mL(-1) (phenethylamine). The relative standard deviations were 2.4-3.2% (n=6) and the limits of detection were in the range of 0.02-5 ng mL(-1). The method was applied to analyze the rice wine samples and spiked recoveries in the range of 95.42-104.56% were obtained. The results showed that ultrasound-assisted dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction was a very simple, rapid, sensitive and efficient analytical method for the determination of trace amount of biogenic amines.
19675151	The architecture of grass genomes varies on multiple levels. Large long terminal repeat retrotransposon clusters occupy significant portions of the intergenic regions, and islands of protein-encoding genes are interspersed among the repeat clusters. Hence, advanced assembly techniques are required to obtain completely finished genomes as well as to investigate gene and transposable element distributions. To characterize the organization and distribution of repeat clusters and gene islands across large grass genomes, we present 961- and 594-kb contiguous sequence contigs associated with the rf1 (for restorer of fertility1) locus in the near-centromeric region of maize (Zea mays) chromosome 3. We present two methods for computational finishing of highly repetitive bacterial artificial chromosome clones that have proved successful to close all sequence gaps caused by transposable element insertions. Sixteen repeat clusters were observed, ranging in length from 23 to 155 kb. These repeat clusters are almost exclusively long terminal repeat retrotransposons, of which the paleontology of insertion varies throughout the cluster. Gene islands contain from one to four predicted genes, resulting in a gene density of one gene per 16 kb in gene islands and one gene per 111 kb over the entire sequenced region. The two sequence contigs, when compared with the rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genomes, retain gene colinearity of 50% and 71%, respectively, and 70% and 100%, respectively, for high-confidence gene models. Collinear genes on single gene islands show that while most expansion of the maize genome has occurred in the repeat clusters, gene islands are not immune and have experienced growth in both intragene and intergene locations.
19675156	The conquest of the land by plants required dramatic morphological and metabolic adaptations. Complex developmental programs under tight regulation evolved during this process. Key regulators of plant development are phytohormones, such as cytokinins. Cytokinins are adenine derivatives that affect various processes in plants. The cytokinin signal transduction system, which is mediated via a multistep variant of the bacterial two-component signaling system, is well characterized in the model plant Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). To understand the origin and evolutionary pattern of this signaling pathway, we surveyed the genomes of several sequenced key plant species ranging from unicellular algae, moss, and lycophytes, to higher land plants, including Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa), for proteins involved in cytokinin signal transduction. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the hormone-binding receptor and a class of negative regulators first appeared in land plants. Other components of the signaling pathway were present in all species investigated. Furthermore, we found that the receptors evolved under different evolutionary constraints from the other components of the pathway: The number of receptors remained fairly constant, while the other protein families expanded.
19675157	A great number of plants synchronize flowering with day length. In rice (Oryza sativa), photoperiod is the primary environmental cue that triggers flowering. Here, we show that the s73 mutant, identified in a gamma-irradiated Bahia collection, displays early flowering and photoperiodic insensitivity due to a null mutation in the PHOTOPERIOD SENSITIVITY5 (SE5) gene, which encodes an enzyme implicated in phytochrome chromophore biosynthesis. s73 mutant plants show a number of alterations in the characteristic diurnal expression patterns of master genes involved in photoperiodic control of flowering, resulting in up-regulation of the floral integrator Heading date3a (Hd3a). Early heading date1 (Ehd1), an additional rice floral activator, was also highly expressed in the s73 mutant, suggesting that SE5 represses Ehd1 in wild-type plants. Silencing of Ehd1 in both Bahia and s73 backgrounds indicated that SE5 regulates Ehd1 expression. The data also indicate that SE5 confers photoperiodic sensitivity through regulation of Hd1. These results provide direct evidence that phytochromes inhibit flowering by affecting both Hd1 and Ehd1 flowering pathways.
19678537	A hitherto unidentified endophytic strain of the genus Chaetomium, isolated from the medicinal plant Otanthus maritimus, yielded a new tetrahydrofuran derivative, aureonitolic acid (1), along with 5 known natural products, 2-6. The structure of 1 was determined by extensive spectroscopic analysis and comparison with reported data. Extracts of the fungus, grown either in liquid culture or on solid rice media, exhibited considerable cytotoxic activity when tested in vitro against L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells. Compounds 2 and 6 showed significant growth inhibition against L5178Y cells with EC50 values of 7.0 and 2.7 microg/mL, respectively, whereas 1 was inactive.
19678538	A fungus, isolated from the root bark of Melia azedarach (Meliaceae), from which a series of meroterpenes have been reported, was identified as Penicillium brasilianum based on analysis of the ITS region of ribosomal DNA. From a rice culture of this fungus, the known phenylpropanoid amides brasiliamide A and B were obtained together with and a new, slightly modified congener, along with the meroterpenoids preaustinoid A1, preaustinoid B2 and austinolide. The compounds were isolated by the use of combined chromatographic procedures and identified by physical methods, mainly 1D and 2D NMR experiments, with distinction for 1H{15N} HMBC applied to brasiliamide A. The amides were tested for their antimicrobial activity and showed only weak inhibitory effects, against a set of pathogenic bacteria.
19680127	Mechanistic-based research has made possible a more pathophysiologic approach to certain drug-induced muscle disorders, especially those caused by the lipid-lowering statin family of drugs, but also myopathies caused by antimicrotubule drugs, mitochondrial toxins, foods, and purported nutriceutical remedies. This is a critical review of those syndromes that are most well founded on evidence of challenge/de-challenge/re-challenge, case-controls, or experimental controls. Statins are well tolerated drugs with very high safety windows in skeletal muscle, and third-generation statins now under development offer the hope of even less risk of toxic myopathy. Toxicity is dose-related and time-related, and is due to intramyofiber cascades downstream from 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG Co-A) reductase inhibition. A robust pathophysiologic animal model shows that statins decrease strength and increase cytosolic Ca2+ by increasing both mitochondrial Ca2+ permeability and Ca2+ release from sarcoplasmic reticulum. As a result, the earliest pathologic change in statin myotoxicity is compatible with simple necrosis and intracellular membrane accumulation. Genome-wide searching has yielded a single nucleotide polymorphism in the SLCO1B1 gene for the organic anion-transporting polypeptide that regulates statin uptake. Drug-drug interactions dominate recent reports of all toxic myopathies. The peculiar mitochondrial pathology of zidovudine-induced mitochondrial DNA depletion, cytochrome oxidase depletion, and mitochondrial proliferation has been confirmed in a rigorous animal model. Finally, recent interest has been piqued by putative lipid-lowering neutraceuticals like red yeast rice (Monascus purpureus) and edible mushrooms that can clearly cause toxic myopathy. A principled approach to the diagnosis of toxic myopathies, based on the consideration of currently known pathophysiologic mechanisms, biopsy pathology, the characteristic clearance properties of creatine kinase, the time course of muscle fiber regeneration, drug challenge/de-challenge/re-challenge, and differential diagnoses, rather than on mere temporal association, will reduce the healthcare costs of common diagnostic error.
19680842	Arsenic (As) contamination of rice plants can result in high total As concentrations (t-As) in cooked rice, especially if As-contaminated water is used for cooking. This study examines two variables: (1) the cooking method (water volume and inclusion of a washing step); and (2) the rice type (atab and boiled). Cooking water and raw atab and boiled rice contained 40 microg As l(-1) and 185 and 315 microg As kg(-1), respectively. In general, all cooking methods increased t-As from the levels in raw rice; however, raw boiled rice decreased its t-As by 12.7% when cooked by the traditional method, but increased by 15.9% or 23.5% when cooked by the intermediate or contemporary methods, respectively. Based on the best possible scenario (the traditional cooking method leading to the lowest level of contamination, and the atab rice type with the lowest As content), t-As daily intake was estimated to be 328 microg, which was twice the tolerable daily intake of 150 microg.
19680867	The stability of iodine from iodized salt was measured in white bread, grain bread, sweet biscuits and the breakfast cereals, Weetbix (a flaked, pressed, wheat product), Ricies (a puffed rice product) and toasted muesli, as part of the New Zealand Government's initiatives to address the public health issue of low iodine intake by most New Zealanders. Triplicate runs of each product were manufactured by commercial food manufacturers between September 2006 and May 2007 with iodized and non-iodized salt. Triplicate samples were taken at various steps during processing of each food and analysed for moisture and iodine content. Iodine concentration was determined by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry following an alkaline digestion. Iodine, at the equivalent of 25-65 mg of iodine per kg salt, was 100% retained in each of the selected foods from the time of mixing to the final product. These results imply that all iodine added via salt at the time of manufacture is available for consumption but not necessarily bioavailable. These data can be used for modelling the impact of strategies to increase iodine exposure. Salt as an ingredient is not a good predictor of iodine intake due to the inhomogeneity of iodine in iodized salt.
19680907	The present study investigates the occurrence of acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-inhibiting organophosphorus (OP) pesticide residues in milled rice samples obtained form local markets in China during the period 2004-2006 and estimates their cumulative exposure. Concentrations of OP pesticides were determined by gas chromatography with flame photometric detection (GC-FPD). The results showed that 9.3% of the samples contained detectable residues of at least one of the seven target OP pesticides (chlorpyrifos, dichlorvos, omethoate, methamidophos, parathion-methyl, parathion and triazophos) mainly used for agriculture in China, with concentrations ranging 0.011-1.756 mg kg(-1). Rice consumption data was obtained from an individual food consumption survey. Relative potency factors (RPFs) for each pesticide were calculated with methamidophos as the index compound (IC), using 1- or 2-year chronic non-observed adverse effect levels (NOAEL) for AChE inhibition, mostly in rat brain, obtained from international evaluations of pesticides. Exposure to AChE-inhibiting pesticides for the population above 7 years old at P99.9 represented 52-94.5% of the acceptable daily intake (ADI) expressed as methamidophos. Estimated exposure for children aged 2-4 and 4-7 years at P99.9 were 119 and 104.3% of the ADI level, respectively. This study suggests that a yearly monitoring program for OP pesticide residues and strict implementation of the national safety standard for milled rice is necessary.
19680927	The molecular structures of enniatins H, I, and MK1688 and beauvericin were investigated by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). MS fragmentation occurred by loss of -CO after opening of the cyclic molecule to carbonyl carbon, and cleavage of the peptide and ester bonds in the molecular structure. Fusarium oxysporum KFCC 11363P was tested for its ability to produce beauvericin and enniatins H, I, and MK1688 on five cereal substrates: rice, barley, maize, wheat, and Indian millet kernels. Furthermore, optimal conditions for the production of the four mycotoxins by the Fusarium isolate were examined on maize at four temperatures (15, 20, 25, and 30 degrees C) and at three moisture contents (10, 20, and 40%). Large amounts of beauvericin and enniatin H were present in maize cultures at 25 degrees C (232.4 and 196.4 microg g(-1), respectively). Enniatins I and MK1688 were maximally formed at 20 degrees C (221.5 and 180.2 microg g(-1), respectively). The optimal moisture contents for the production of enniatins H (196.4 microg g(-1)) and MK1688 (165.6 microg g(-1)), were 40%.
19680928	A survey of moulds and mycotoxins was performed on 99 rice samples taken from the Swedish retail market. The main objective was to study the mould and mycotoxin content in basmati rice and rice with a high content of fibre. Samples of jasmine rice as well as long-grain rice were also included. The samples were analysed for their content of ochratoxin A (high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)), aflatoxin B(1), B(2), G(1), and G(2) (HPLC, RIDA(R)QUICK), and mould (traditional cultivation methods in combination with morphological analysis). The majority of samples were sampled according to European Commission Regulation 401/2006. Subsamples were pooled and mixed before milling and both mould and mycotoxin analyses were performed on milled rice. The results showed that the majority of basmati rice (71%) and many jasmine rice samples (20%) contained detectable levels of aflatoxin B(1) (level of quantification = 0.1 microg aflatoxin kg(-1) rice). Two samples of jasmine rice and ten basmati rice samples contained levels over the regulated European maximum limits of 2 microg kg(-1) for aflatoxin B(1) or 4 microg kg(-1) for total aflatoxins. Aspergillus was the most common mould genus isolated, but also Penicillium, Eurotium, Wallemia, Cladosporium, Epicoccum, Alternaria, and Trichotecium were found. The presence of Aspergillus flavus in 21% of the samples indicates that incorrect management of rice during production and storage implies a risk of mould growth and subsequent production of aflatoxin. Rough estimates showed that high rice consumers may have an intake of 2-3 ng aflatoxin kg(-1) bodyweight and day(-1) from rice alone. This survey shows that aflatoxin is a common contaminant in rice imported to Europe.
19680949	The aim of this study was to investigate the possible effects of cooking or handling conditions on the concentration of furan in processed foods. The analytical method used to analyse furan levels in foods was optimized based on solid-phase microextraction-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (SPME-GC-MS). In baby soups, the concentration of furan decreased by up to 22% after opening a lid for 10 min. In the baby food in retort packaging, the level of furan was reduced by 15-33% after heating the foods at 50 degrees C without a lid. Furan in rice seasonings was evaporated completely after heating the foods at 60 degrees C. Regarding powered milk, the levels of furan were too low to be compared under various conditions. The levels of furan decreased to 58% in beverage products for babies, after storing them at 4 degrees C for 1 day without a lid. The levels of furan in canned foods such as cereal and vegetable were reduced by zero to 52% when they were stored without stirring in a refrigerator at 4 degrees C for 1 day. When we boiled canned fish, the furan present was almost completely evaporated. It is recommended that canned meats be heated up to 50-70 degrees C for the reduction (26-46%) of furan levels. The levels of furan in instant and brewed coffee samples were significantly reduced after storing for 11 to 20 min at room temperature without a lid (p < 0.05).
19680958	A method was developed for the determination of total arsenic in foods using flow injection on-line sorption coupled with hydride generation atomic fluorescence spectrometry (HG-AFS) using a cigarette filter as the sorbent material. After reducing As(V) to As(III) by using L-cysteine, the determination of total arsenic was achieved through on-line formation and retention of the pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate arsenic complex (As(III)-PDC) on the cigarette filter, which was packed in the pre-concentration column and total arsenic was determined by HG-AFS. The analytes were eluted with 1.68 mol l(-1) HCl from the sorbent material. With consumption of 22 ml of the sample solution, an enrichment factor of 25.6 was obtained at a sample throughput of 11.6 h(-1). The detection limits (3 standard deviations) and the precision (relative standard deviation) in foods ranged from 2.5 to 9.9 ng g(-1) and from 1.1 to 2.2%, respectively. The method was used to determine arsenic in carrot, mushroom, chicken tissue, cod fish, rice, common carp and shrimp.
19680963	A molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) for the recognition of fumonisin B analogues (FB) using 2-(diethylamino) ethyl methacrylate (DEAEM) as functional monomer and trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate (TRIM) as cross-linker was prepared by bulk polymerization in acetonitrile. Fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) was used as a template molecule. A molecularly imprinted solid-phase extraction (MISPE) procedure was developed for further application in the analysis of FB. The performance of the MIP throughout the clean-up of spiked bell pepper, rice and corn flake sample extracts was compared with the results obtained when using non-imprinted polymer, C(18), strong anion exchange and immunoaffinity sorbents. Extracts were analysed for FB with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) after clean-up. Depending on the food matrix and the concentration range of the fumonisins, recoveries after MISPE varied from 62 to 86%, from 62 to 83%, and from 67 to 81% for fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)), fumonisin B(2) (FB(2)) and fumonisin B(3) (FB(3)), respectively. The selectivity of the synthesized MIP for mycotoxins belonging to the group of FB was confirmed by evaluating cross-reactivity from analogue structures and other mycotoxins. Analysis of 39 naturally contaminated samples (corn flakes) by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry indicated that the synthesized MIP could be an excellent alternative for clean-up and pre-concentration of FB in food samples. Pearson correlations between immunoaffinity clean-up and MISPE were calculated and amounted to 0.923 for FB(1), 0.808 for FB(2), and 0.759 for FB(3). It was shown that the developed MIP could be reused more than 50 times. The synthesis of an FB(1) imprinted polymer and its application in food analysis is reported for the first time.
19680970	Trihalomethanes (THMs) are suspected carcinogens and reproductive toxicants commonly found in chlorinated drinking water. This study investigates THM formation during the preparation of beverages and foods using chlorinated drinking water. A total of 11 foods and 17 beverages were tested. Under the experimental conditions, each food and beverage formed THMs, primarily chloroform, although low or trace levels of brominated THMs were also detected. Tea formed the highest THM levels (e.g., chloroform levels from 3 to 67 microg l(-1)), followed by coffee (from 3 to 13 microg l(-1)), rice (9 microg l(-1)), soups (from 0.4 to 3.0 microg l(-1)), vegetables (<1 microg l(-1)), and baby food (<0.7 microg l(-1)). Chloroform formation with instant tea, used as a highly reproducible model system, increased with free chlorine concentration, decreased with higher food (tea) concentration, and was unaffected by reaction (steeping) time and bromide ion concentration. These findings indicate that chlorine-food reactions are fast, but that formation decreases as the chlorine demand of the food system increases. THMs are formed in the preparation and cooking of a wide variety of foods if free chlorine is present, and our results suggest that tea can be a significant source of exposure to THMs.
19681647	Histomonads grew rapidly in Dwyer's medium, consisting of medium 199, chick embryo extract, serum, and rice powder, reaching a population size of about 5 x 10(5) in 3-4 days, followed by a rapid decline. Substitution of other cell culture media (L-15, MEM, or RPMI) for M199 was also satisfactory, except for Waymouth's medium, which produced a lower and later peak of growth. Omission of serum or rice rendered media unsuitable for growth. Bacteriological culture media did not support growth of histomonads. Media that included glucose were unsuitable because the pH of the cultures dropped to about 4. The effect of glucose on pH was due to the action of bacteria. Oxygen inhibited growth of histomonads. There was no growth when culture tubes were not capped tightly, regardless of the medium used. Histomonads grew well with rice flour, cornstarch, oat flour, rye flour, and buckwheat flour. Barley and blue corn meal were less satisfactory. It appeared that the requirements for growth of the lumen phase Histomonas meleagridis included a suitable physiological saline, serum (of any source), and a starch source (grain flour). Anaerobic conditions and a pH near neutral were best. Histomonads separated into pure cultures by flow cytometry would not grow without the inclusion of an unspecified species of bacteria.
19682283	Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) plays a critical role in many aspects of plant growth and development; however, complete pathways of biosynthesis, localization and many aspects of functions of IAA in rice remain unclear. Here, we report the analysis of a rice tryptophan- (Trp-) and IAA-deficient mutant, tryptophan deficient dwarf1 (tdd1), which is embryonic lethal because of a failure to develop most organs during embryogenesis. Regenerated tdd1 plants showed pleiotropic phenotypes: dwarfing, narrow leaves, short roots and abnormal flowers. TDD1 encodes a protein homologous to anthranilate synthase beta-subunit, which catalyses the first step of the Trp biosynthesis pathway and functions upstream of Trp-dependent IAA biosynthesis. TDD1-uidA and DR5-uidA expression overlapped at many sites in WT plants but was lacking in tdd1, indicating that TDD1 is involved in auxin biosynthesis. Both Trp and IAA levels in flowers and embryos were much lower in tdd1 than in wild type (WT). Trp feeding completely rescued the mutant phenotypes and moderate expression of OsYUCCA1, which encodes a key enzyme in Trp-dependent IAA biosynthesis, also rescued plant height and root length, indicating that the abnormal phenotypes of tdd1 are caused predominantly by Trp and IAA deficiency. In tdd1 embryos, the expression patterns of OSH1 and OsSCR, which mark the presumptive apical region and the L2 layer, respectively, are identical to those in WT, suggesting a possibility either that different IAA levels are required for basic pattern formation than for organ formation or that an orthologous gene compensates for TDD1 deficiency during pattern formation.
19682292	Development of genetic varieties with improved nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) is essential for sustainable agriculture. In this study, we developed a growth system for rice wherein N was the growth-limiting factor, and identified N-responsive genes by a whole genome transcriptional profiling approach. Some genes were selected to test their functionality in NUE by a transgenic approach. One such example with positive effects on NUE is an early nodulin gene OsENOD93-1. This OsENOD93-1 gene responded significantly to both N induction and N reduction. Transgenic rice plants over-expressing the OsENOD93-1 gene had increased shoot dry biomass and seed yield. This OsENOD93-1 gene was expressed at high levels in roots of wild-type (WT) plants, and its protein product was localized in mitochondria. Transgenic plants accumulated higher concentrations of total amino acids and total N in roots. A higher concentration of amino acids in xylem sap was detected in transgenic plants, especially under N stress. In situ hybridization revealed that OsENOD93-1 is expressed in vascular bundles, as well as in epidermis and endodermis. This work demonstrates that transcriptional profiling, coupled with a transgenic validation approach, is an effective strategy for gene discovery. The knowledge gained from this study could be applied to other important crops.
19683587	Based on sequences of 20 chloroplast fragments, we generated a fully resolved phylogeny of Oryzeae and estimated divergence times of its major lineages as well as explored the historical biogeography of the tribe. Our results (1) confirmed the monophyly of Oryzeae and two-subtribe subdivision; (2) indicated that Maltebrunia, Potamophila and Prosphytochloa were genetically distinct enough to deserve generic status but Maltebrunia and Prosphytochloa were sister groups in the subtribe Oryzinae while Potamophila was a member in the subtribe Zizaniinae; (3) suggested that the previously unresolved phylogeny of the subtribe Zizaniinae was most likely explained by insufficient data due to rapid radiation; (4) provided the first well-corroborated timescale for the origin and divergence of Oryzeae, with the crown node of Oryzeae and the deepest split of Oryza at approximately 24 and 15MYA, respectively; (5) developed a biogeographic history of the tribe and substantiated the important roles of long-distance dispersal in the origin and diversification of the tribe Oryzeae.
19683672	The genetic diversity of 118 accessions of broomcorn millet (Panicum miliaceum L.), collected from various ecological areas, was analyzed. Using 46 SSR (Simple Sequence Repeat) polymorphic markers from rice, wheat, oat and barley, a total of 226 alleles were found, which exhibited moderate level of diversity. The number of alleles per primer ranged from two to nine, with an average of 4.91. The range of polymorphism information content (PIC) was 0.284-0.980 (average, 0.793). The expected heterozygosity (He) varied from 0.346 to 0.989, with an average of 0.834. The average coefficient of the genetic similarity of SSR markers among the 118 accessions was 0.609, and it ranged from 0.461 to 0.851. The UPGMA (Unweight Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean) clustering analysis at the genetic similarity value of 0.609 grouped the 118 accessions into five groups. Mantel test meant that geographical origin and genetic distance presented positive correlation. The clustering results were consistent with known information on ecological growing areas. The genetic similarity coefficient of the accessions in the Loess Plateau ecotype was significantly lower than those in the other ecotypes. It indicates that the highest level of genetic diversity occurred in the Loess Plateau, which is probably the original site of Panicum miliaceum.
19684243	Serine carboxypeptidase-like (SCPL) proteins have recently emerged as a new group of plant acyltransferases. These enzymes share homology with peptidases but lack protease activity and instead are able to acylate natural products. Several SCPL acyltransferases have been characterized to date from dicots, including an enzyme required for the synthesis of glucose polyesters that may contribute to insect resistance in wild tomato (Solanum pennellii) and enzymes required for the synthesis of sinapate esters associated with UV protection in Arabidopsis thaliana. In our earlier genetic analysis, we identified the Saponin-deficient 7 (Sad7) locus as being required for the synthesis of antimicrobial triterpene glycosides (avenacins) and for broad-spectrum disease resistance in diploid oat (Avena strigosa). Here, we report on the cloning of Sad7 and show that this gene encodes a functional SCPL acyltransferase, SCPL1, that is able to catalyze the synthesis of both N-methyl anthraniloyl- and benzoyl-derivatized forms of avenacin. Sad7 forms part of an operon-like gene cluster for avenacin synthesis. Oat SCPL1 (SAD7) is the founder member of a subfamily of monocot-specific SCPL proteins that includes predicted proteins from rice (Oryza sativa) and other grasses with potential roles in secondary metabolism and plant defense.
19685277	A study was conducted to determine the management practices followed by the farmers for draught cattle in Tamil Nadu state, India. Methods of procurement of animals, use of female animals, breeds preferred, housing, health, disposal of animals, feeding, shoeing, purchase of animal-drawn implements and their maintenance were all assessed with 210 farmers from seven districts across different agro-climatic zones in Tamil Nadu. The results revealed that 86 % of the respondents purchased the draught cattle from the livestock markets, most were bullocks but 20 small farmers and 5 medium farmers used female animals for ploughing. Among the indigenous breeds, Kangeyam (33 %) and Hallikar (30 %) breeds were the most popular for work. Most farmers (69 %) provided a mixed type of housing (provision of housing only during the night time and the rainy season) for their draught cattle. The major health problem reported by 63 % of respondents was pyrexia. Almost all farmers sold their animals at the age of 8-10 years. The feeding practices for draught cattle were poor especially with the small farmers. The cattle were fed with mainly paddy straw and rice bran. Oilcakes and cotton seeds were given to the animals which work throughout the year mainly for ploughing and carting. The draught cattle were first shod at around 2.5 years of age. The majority of the farmers (71 %) used the traditional animal-drawn implements made by local artisans, and the farmers were not aware of the new implements to reduce the drudgery of work cattle, designed by the Agricultural Machinery Research Centre and Agricultural Engineering Departments located in India.
19685446	The pyrethroid insecticide etofenprox is of current interest to rice farmers in the Sacramento Valley owing to its effectiveness against the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel. This study aimed to describe the partitioning of etofenprox under simulated rice field conditions by determining its Henry's law constant (H) (an estimate of volatilization) and organic carbon-normalized soil-water distribution coefficient (K(oc)) at representative field temperatures. A comparison of etofenprox and lambda-cyhalothrin is presented using a level-1 fugacity model. Experimental determination of H revealed that etofenprox partitioned onto the apparatus walls and did not significantly volatilize; the maximum value of H was estimated to be 6.81 x 10(-1) Pa m(3) mol(-1) at 25 degrees C, based on its air and water method detection limits. Calculated values for H ranged from 5.6 x 10(-3) Pa m(3) mol(-1) at 5 degrees C to 2.9 x 10(-1) Pa m(3) mol(-1) at 40 degrees C, based on estimated solubility and vapor pressure values at various temperatures. Log K(oc) values (at 25 degrees C) were experimentally determined to be 6.0 and 6.4 for Princeton and Richvale rice field soils, respectively, and were very similar to the values for other pyrethroids. Finally, temperature appears to have little influence on etofenprox sorption, as the log K(oc) for the Princeton soil at 35 degrees C was 6.1. High sorption coefficients and relatively insignificant desorption and volatilization of etofenprox suggest that its insolubility drives it to partition from water by sorbing to soils with high affinity. Offsite movement is unlikely unless transported in a bound state on suspended sediments.
19685898	In eukaryotes, RNA binding proteins (RBPs) play an integral role not only in RNA processing within the nucleus, but also in the cytoplasmic events of RNA transport, localization, translation, storage and degradation. While many studies have been done, relatively little is known about RBPs in plants. As part of our continuing efforts to understand cytoplasmic gene expression events in developing rice seed (Oryza sativa L.), a proteomics approach was used to identify cytoplasmic-localized, cytoskeletal-associated RBPs. The nucleic acid binding fraction from a cytoskeletal-enriched rice seed extract was isolated by Poly(U)-Sepharose affinity chromatography and analyzed using 2D gel electrophoresis. Analysis of 162 excised protein spots using mass spectrometry led to the identification of 148 distinct proteins, in addition to the highly abundant globulin and glutelin seed storage proteins. Identified proteins include those involved in RNA processing, translation, protein modification, cell signaling, and metabolism, as well as a number of hypothetical proteins. Proteins of particular interest with roles in RNA metabolism are discussed. These results have been deposited within the Rice RNA Binding Protein Database as part of an integrated study of plant cytoskeletal-associated RBPs using developing rice seed as a model.
19686113	Dietary free-glutamate (Glu) improves taste and palatability. In our previous study, we found that Glu intake by hospitalized elderly was low and supplementation of monosodium L-glutamate (MSG) to their staple diet improved their behavior. To confirm such findings, we conducted a double-blind and placebo-controlled trial in hospitalized elderly. The study consisted of a 1-month lead-in period, a 3-month intervention period, and a 1-month follow-up period. In the intervention group, 0.5% (w/w) MSG was added to every staple diet, 150 g of rice gruel (the MSG group). Fourteen subjects in the MSG group (average age 83.0 +/- 8.9 years) and 15 in the control group (average age 84.3 +/- 9.6 years) completed the study. The subjects of both groups took most of the given foods based on the energy requirement of each subject's metabolic rate, body weight, and activity. In the last week of each period, nurses assessed the dementia score and daily performance of both groups. The daily performance was improved by dietary MSG. Behavior during mealtime was video-recorded for 5 min in the lead-in period and after 3 months in the intervention period. Significant improvement in the mealtime behavior was observed only in the MSG group. Furthermore, although serum albumin itself did not increase, the ratio of reduced-form albumin to total albumin increased only in the MSG group. In conclusion, supplementation of 0.5% MSG to rice gruel three times a day for 3 months improved behaviors and the nutritional status of hospitalized elderly.
19686374	Photoperiod-sensitive genic male-sterile (PSGMS) rice (Oryza sativa L.), a natural mutant found in the rice cultivar Nongken 58, is very useful for the development of hybrid rice cultivars. Despite its widespread use in breeding programs, the initial stage of the abortive development of PSGMS rice and the possible cytological mechanisms of pollen abortion have not been determined. In the present study, a systematic cytological comparison of the anther development of PSGMS rice with its normal fertile counterpart is conducted. The results show that pollen abortion in PSGMS rice first occurs before the pollen mother cell (PMC) stage, and continues during the entire process of pollen development until pollen degradation. The abortive process was closely associated with the abnormal behavior of the tapetum. Although tapetum degeneration in PSGMS rice initiates already at the PMC stage, it proceeds slowly and does not complete until the breakdown of the pollen. Such cytological observations were supported by the results of the TUNEL (TdT-mediated dUTP Nick End Labeling) assay, which detects DNA fragmentation resulting from programmed cell death (PCD), indicating that the premature tapetum degeneration is in the process of PCD.
19687278	An experiment was conducted to study the effects of type of cereal (60% corn or 60% rice), heat processing of the cereal (raw or steam-cooked), and fiber source (control without hulls, 3% oat hulls, and 3% soy hulls) on gizzard pH and total tract apparent retention (TTAR) of nutrients in broilers at different ages. There were 12 treatments arranged factorially (2x2x3) and 6 replicates (8 chicks) per treatment. The 2 basal diets were based on soy protein concentrate and fish meal and had a neutral detergent fiber content of 3.5% for the rice and 7.3% for the corn diet. Gizzard pH was lower at 13 d than at 8 or 20 d of age (P<or=0.05) and was lower for the corn than for the rice diets (P<or=0.001). The inclusion of additional fiber reduced gizzard pH in broilers fed rice but not in broilers fed corn (P<or=0.001). Except for acid soluble ash, TTAR of nutrients increased from 4 d to 8 or 13 d of age (P<or=0.001) and then remained constant until 20 d. Nutrient retention was higher for the rice than for the corn diets (P<or=0.001) at all ages. The inclusion of oat hulls or soy hulls improved TTAR of nutrients and the effects were more pronounced for the rice than for the corn diet (P<or=0.001). Also, the beneficial effects of fiber inclusion on TTAR of ether extract and AMEn of the diet were higher at younger ages (P<or=0.05). It is concluded that rice is a cereal of choice in prestarter diets for broilers. The reduction in gizzard pH and the improvement of TTAR of nutrients observed with additional fiber suggests that young broilers might need a minimal amount of fiber in the diet for optimal performance.
19688213	Signal peptide peptidase (SPP) is a multi-transmembrane aspartic proteinase involved in regulated intramembrane proteolysis, which is implicated in fundamental life processes such as immunological response, cell signaling, tissue differentiation, and embryogenesis. In this study, we identified two rice SPPs: OsSPP1 and OsSPP2. Green fluorescent protein-fused OsSPP1 and OsSPP2 were localized to the ER in cultured plant cells. In situ hybridization showed that OsSPPs were strongly expressed in vegetative shoot apex, young panicle, developing panicle, and the early developing florets. Undifferentiated cells, which have the potential to differentiate into all of the aerial parts of the plant are presented in the shoot apex. OsSPPs are located in both the undifferentiated cells, and the early differentiated cells at the shoot apex. These results suggest that rice SPPs have an important function in differentiation and development at the shoot apex. The expression of the shoot apex and ER localization is equal to dicot Arabidopsis thaliana, and will have common crucial roles in plant.
19688299	COBRA-like proteins play important roles in cell expansion and cell wall biosynthesis in Arabidopsis. In rice, a COBRA-like gene, BRITTLE CULM1 (BC1), has been identified as a regulator controlling the culm mechanical strength. Analysis of the rice genome indicated that BC1 belongs to an 11-member multigene family, termed the OsBC1L family in this study. Based on sequence comparisons and phylogenetic analysis, the OsBC1L family comprises two main subgroups. Expression patterns examined by microarray and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction revealed that OsBC1L genes exhibit universal or specific expression patterns. Through T-DNA or Tos17 insertion mutant lines, the functions of six OsBC1L family members have been examined by investigating the phenotype variations of knockout mutants under normal growth conditions. Results suggest that the OsBC1L genes perform a range of functions and participate in various developmental processes in rice.
19689097	Universal salt iodization promotes the use of iodated salt for producing industrial food products, although it might affect product quality and iodine stability. To assess iodine loss during fermentation of fermented fish and fish sauces produced by using iodated salt and the effect on product sensory quality. Fermented fish and fish sauces were produced with iodated rock and grain sea salts (approximately 30 ppm iodine). Fermented fish was prepared from freshwater fish mixed with salt and rice bran and fermented for 6 months at room temperature. Fish sauces were prepared by mixing anchovy with salt and fermenting either exposed to sunlight or in the shade for 12 months. Residual iodine was determined with a spectrophotometer at day 0 and months 1, 3, and 6 for fermented fish and day 0 and months 3, 6, and 12 for fish sauces. After fermentation, the products were tested for sensory acceptability by Laotian and Thai panelists (approximately 50 in each panel) after they were cooked and served in the traditional manner. After fermentation, the level of residual iodine was 7.61 ppm (16% loss) infermented fish, 5.57 ppm (55% loss) in fish sauce prepared with exposure to sunlight, and 9.52 ppm (13% loss) in fish sauce prepared in the shade. Sensory qualities of the products that were produced from fortified and unfortified salts as well as dishes prepared from these products were not significantly different (p > 0.05). It is feasible to produce fermented fish and fish sauces with iodated salt and maintain acceptable iodine levels.
19689783	Heading date is an important agronomic trait in rice. A rice mutant with a late heading date and no photoperiodic sensitivity in long or short day conditions was obtained from rice T-DNA insertion mutants in Zhonghua11 (ZH11). Through isolation and analysis of the flanking sequence of the T-NDA insertion site, the target sequence of insertion was obtained and found to locate in AP003296, the sequence accession number of rice chromosome 1 of RGP (http://rgp.dna.affrc.go.jp). The putative amino acid sequences of this target gene are homologous to the Arabidopsis protein ELF3 encoded by an early flowering gene. The rice target gene orthologous to Arabidopsis ELF3 is named OsEF3; this encodes a putative nematode responsive protein-like protein. OsEF3 has pleiotropic effects in rice that differ from the effects of Arabidopsis ELF3, which only affects biological rhythms. OsEF3 regulates heading date by influencing the BVG stage and does not affect photoperiodic sensitivity, which suggests that the OsEF3 gene may be involved in an autonomous pathway in rice. OsEF3 may affect root development and kilo-grain weight by delaying cell division or cell elongation.
19689796	Analysis of molecular evolutionary patterns of different genes within metabolic pathways allows us to determine whether these genes are subject to equivalent evolutionary forces and how natural selection shapes the evolution of proteins in an interacting system. Although previous studies found that upstream genes in the pathway evolved more slowly than downstream genes, the correlation between evolutionary rate and position of the genes in metabolic pathways as well as its implications in molecular evolution are still less understood. We sequenced and characterized 7 core structural genes of the gibberellin biosynthetic pathway from 8 representative species of the rice tribe (Oryzeae) to address alternative hypotheses regarding evolutionary rates and patterns of metabolic pathway genes. We have detected significant rate heterogeneity among 7 GA pathway genes for both synonymous and nonsynonymous sites. Such rate variation is mostly likely attributed to differences of selection intensity rather than differential mutation pressures on the genes. Unlike previous argument that downstream genes in metabolic pathways would evolve more slowly than upstream genes, the downstream genes in the GA pathway did not exhibited the elevated substitution rate and instead, the genes that encode either the enzyme at the branch point (GA20ox) or enzymes catalyzing multiple steps (KO, KAO and GA3ox) in the pathway had the lowest evolutionary rates due to strong purifying selection. Our branch and codon models failed to detect signature of positive selection for any lineage and codon of the GA pathway genes. This study suggests that significant heterogeneity of evolutionary rate of the GA pathway genes is mainly ascribed to differential constraint relaxation rather than the positive selection and supports the pathway flux theory that predicts that natural selection primarily targets enzymes that have the greatest control on fluxes.
19689897	Rice, Oryza sativa, is the most important staple food for a significant portion of the world's population. Despite the importance of rice, however, induced resistance to insects has not been thoroughly studied in rice; in fact, to our knowledge, direct induced resistance after injury by chewing insects has not been shown in rice. We conducted a series of experiments designed to characterize direct induced resistance in rice after feeding by larvae of the fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda J. E. Smith) and application of jasmonic acid. Weight gains and relative growth rates of fall armyworm larvae were lower when fed leaves from plants previously damaged by armyworms than when fed leaves from undamaged plants. This response was stronger at a systemic spatial scale; that is, the induced resistance was stronger in newly emerged leaves not present at the time plants were damaged than in damaged leaves themselves. Armyworm growth rates were also reduced on foliage from plants treated with jasmonic acid, a hormone known to mediate plant responses to wounding. The response to injury by armyworm larvae and to exogenous jasmonic acid was stronger in transgenic rice plants in which levels of salicylic acid (a signaling molecule that inhibits jasmonic acid) were suppressed. These results show the existence of a direct induced resistance response in rice and suggest that this response to injury by a chewing insect may be mediated by jasmonic acid.
19689898	The Asiatic rice borer Chilo suppressalis (Walker) occurs mainly on rice Oryza sativa L. and water-oat Zizania latifolia (Turcz). Certain ecological and physiological differentiations between rice and water-oat populations have been shown. To determine whether there is host-associated differentiation in supercooling capacity, seasonal changes in supercooling points, glycerol content, and other physiological parameters of naturally occurring C. suppressalis larvae overwintering in rice and water-oat plants were compared over the winter. Supercooling points were low in the winter (November and December), significantly higher in March, and significantly lower in the water-oat population than in the rice population in the winter. Larvae from the water-oat population experienced a significant weight loss from December to March and were heavier than those from the rice population in the winter. Body water content (percentage of fresh weight) was low in the winter and increased significantly in March; no population differences were detected. Hemolymph glycerol content was high in the winter and dropped significantly in March; interpopulation differences were significant in December. Hemolymph trehalose content increased in the winter, and no population differences were detected. Whole body glucose and lipid content varied differently between the rice and the water-oat populations over the winter. It was found that variations in hemolymph glycerol content were responsible for the host-associated seasonal changes in supercooling capacity of overwintering larvae of the Asiatic rice borer.
19689947	Hybrid rice breeding is the combining ability breeding. Screening hybrid rice combinations with high special combining ability (SCA) is able to breed strong superiority combinations with practical values. In this study, the genetic distances (GD) of nine three-line hybrid rice (5 CMS lines and 4 restorer lines) were examined using SSR markers. Based on yield performances of 20 hybrid crosses (5 x 4 NCII), the relationships between SCA, heterosis and GD were studied. The correlations of yield SCA with the control heterosis (r1=0.5609) and the average heterosis (r2=0.541) were significant, but not significant with GD (r=0.2143). Thus, the heterosis can be reflected by SCA; the hybrid parents selected in this study can be used to develop strong superiority combinations; but the SCA cannot be reflected by GD, which needs further study.
19690613	Eighty-eight rice (Oryza sativa) cDNAs encoding rice leaf expressed protein kinases (PKs) were fused to a Tandem Affinity Purification tag (TAP-tag) and expressed in transgenic rice plants. The TAP-tagged PKs and interacting proteins were purified from the T1 progeny of the transgenic rice plants and identified by tandem mass spectrometry. Forty-five TAP-tagged PKs were recovered in this study and thirteen of these were found to interact with other rice proteins with a high probability score. In vivo phosphorylated sites were found for three of the PKs. A comparison of the TAP-tagged data from a combined analysis of 129 TAP-tagged rice protein kinases with a concurrent screen using yeast two hybrid methods identified an evolutionarily new rice protein that interacts with the well conserved cell division cycle 2 (CDC2) protein complex.
