12957391	Helitrons, a novel class of eukaryote mobile genetic elements, are distinguished from other transposable elements by encoding a 'rolling circle' replication (RCR) protein (Rep) and a helicase. Helitrons have recently been described from Arabidopsis, rice and the nematode Caenorhabditis. We now report the discovery of Helitron-like elements in vertebrates, specifically in the genomes of the fish Danio rerio and Sphoeroides nephelus. We also describe Helitrons from the white rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium and from the Anopheles genome. Many of the fish Helitrons have an uncorrupted open reading frame encoding both the RCR Rep protein and a helicase. These fish elements are of particular interest because they also encode, within the single open reading frame, an apurinic-apyrimidinic (AP) endonuclease most closely related to those of certain non-long terminal repeat retrotransposons. As they invariably carry an endonuclease and also form a very distinct clade, we have named these vertebrate elements 'helentrons'. It is likely that these helentrons are still active.
12958717	It was found that high accuracy splicing-site recognition of rice (Oryza sativa L.) DNA sequence is especially difficult. We described a new method for the splicing-site recognition of rice DNA sequences. Based on the intron in eukaryotic organisms conforming to the principle of GT-AG, we used support vector machines (SVM) to predict the splicing sites. By machine learning, we built a model and used it to test the effect of the test data set of true and pseudo splicing sites. The prediction accuracy we obtained was 87.53% at the true 5' end splicing site and 87.37% at the true 3' end splicing sites. The results suggested that the SVM approach could achieve higher accuracy than the previous approaches.
12958919	The analytic results show that the spirulina powder have a plenty of microelements(K, Na, Ca, Mg, Fe, Zn). Compared with that of rice, wheat flour, maize and soybean, the content of K, Na, Ca, Mg, Fe and Zn of it is respectively as from 4 to 10 times, from 10 to 80 times, from 25 to 70 times, from 3 to 15 times, from 4 to 36 times and from 4 to 24 times as theirs. The content of microelements of it compared with vegetable is much higher. The spirulina has a certain inhibition from cancer, high blood pressure, sugar diabetes and hasten body to absorb Se and Mo, and is of benefit to cardiac muscle. The experimental result indicated that spirulina was good health care food with value of nourish and medicinal.
12961067	One hundred twenty six doubled-haploid (DH) rice lines were evaluated in nine diverse Asian environments to reveal the genetic basis of genotype x environment interactions (GEI) for plant height (PH) and heading date (HD). A subset of lines was also evaluated in four water-limited environments, where the environmental basis of G x E could be more precisely defined. Responses to the environments were resolved into individual QTL x environment interactions using replicated phenotyping and the mixed linear-model approach. A total of 37 main-effect QTLs and 29 epistatic QTLs were identified. On average, these QTLs were detectable in 56% of the environments. When detected in multiple environments, the main effects of most QTLs were consistent in direction but varied considerably in magnitude across environments. Some QTLs had opposite effects in different environments, particularly in water-limited environments, indicating that they responded to the environments differently. Inconsistent QTL detection across environments was due primarily to non- or weak-expression of the QTL, and in part to significant QTL x environment interaction effects in the opposite direction to QTL main effects, and to pronounced epistasis. QTL x environment interactions were trait- and gene-specific. The greater GEI for HD than for PH in rice were reflected by more environment-specific QTLs, greater frequency and magnitude of QTL x environment interaction effects, and more pronounced epistasis for HD than for PH. Our results demonstrated that QTL x environment interaction is an important property of many QTLs, even for highly heritable traits such as height and maturity. Information about QTL x environment interaction is essential if marker-assisted selection is to be applied to the manipulation of quantitative traits.
12963059	A novel immunosensor based on a multilayer-coated glassy carbon electrode was designed to determine isopentenyl adenosine (iPA) in plants. The multilayer consists of polypyrrole and poly(m-phenylenediamine) with K4Fe(CN)6 and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) entrapped during electropolymerization. The ferrocyanide doped in polypyrrole functions as the mediator. The glucose oxidase bound on the immunosensor by the competitive immunoreaction involving iPA catalyzed the oxidation of the added glucose with the formation of H2O2, which is in turn reduced in the presence of HRP entrapped in poly(m-phenylenediamine). The current of the oxidized production of ferrocyanide reduced at -50 mV is inversely proportional to the concentration of iPA in the competitive immunoreaction. This immunosensor is able to be used about 40 times; after that its surface can be regenerated for a new immunosensor assembly by washing with 0.1M citrate-phosphate buffer (pH 4.6). The percentage of current response reduction (CR%) (y) is linearly related to the logarithm of the concentration of iPA (x) in the 5-300 microg/ml range, with a regression equation of the form y = 42.13x - 27.79 and a correlation coefficient of 0.9861. Five hybrid rice grain samples were analyzed with results in satisfactory agreement to those obtained by high-performance liquid chromatography.
12964863	In the present study, we evaluate the protective effect of nitric oxide (NO) against senescence of rice leaves promoted by ABA. Senescence of rice leaves was determined by the decrease of protein content. ABA treatment resulted in (1) induction of leaf senescence, (2) increase in H2O2 and malondialdehyde (MDA) contents, (3) decrease in reduced form glutathione (GSH) and ascorbic acid (AsA) contents, and (4) increase in antioxidative enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and catalase). All these ABA effects were reduced by free radical scavengers such as sodium benzoate and GSH. NO donors [N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN), sodium nitroprusside, 3-morpholinosydonimine, and AsA + NaNO2] were effective in reducing ABA-induced leaf senescence. PBN prevented ABA-induced increase in the contents of H2O2 and MDA, decrease in the contents of GSH and AsA, and increase in the activities of antioxidative enzymes. The protective effect of PBN on ABA-promoted senescence, ABA-increased H2O2 content and lipid peroxidation, ABA-decreased GSH and AsA, and ABA-increased antioxidative enzyme activities was reversed by 2-(4-carboxy-2-phenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide, a NO-specific scavenger, suggesting that the protective effect of PBN is attributable to NO released. Reduction of ABA-induced senescence by NO in rice leaves is most likely mediated through its ability to scavenge active oxygen species including H2O2.
12964869	Two oat varieties, Melys (spring variety) and Bulwark (winter variety) were transformed by particle bombardment of primary embryogenic callus using either a ubi-bar-ubi-gus co-integration vector or co-transformed (Melys) with a ubi-bar plasmid together with one of three plasmids containing the beta-glucuronidase (gus) gene under the control of either a rice actin promoter, a CaMV35S promoter or a wheat high molecular weight glutenin promoter. Morphologically normal and fertile transgenic plants were regenerated following callus selection with glufosinate ammonium. Evidence for the integration and functioning of the selectable (bar) and reporter (gus) genes in T0 and T1 plants was confirmed by PCR, Southern hybridisation, fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH), histochemical assays, and by progeny analysis. Transformation rates varied from 0.2 to 5.0 lines/plate of callus bombarded, with co-transformation frequencies of 83 to 100%, and co-expression frequencies of 60 to 100%. Copy numbers for the bar and gus gene varied from 3 to 17 and from 2 to 20 respectively. Cell and tissue specific expression of the gus gene was evident from the different promoters, with the HMW glutenin promoter showing endosperm specific expression in T1 seed. No expression of the gus gene under the CaMV35S promoter was detected in any tissues. Progeny analysis provided evidence of Mendelian inheritance of the introduced genes suggesting either one or two unlinked integration sites. This was confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridisation to chromosome spread preparations. No segregation of the gus gene from the bar gene was observed in any of the progeny derived from co-transformation.
12966040	Low-temperature stress is an important factor affecting the growth and development of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in temperate and high-elevation areas. Cold stress may cause various seedling injuries, delayed heading and yield reduction due to spikelet sterility. In this study, 181 microsatellite marker loci were used to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with cold tolerance at the vegetative stage in 191 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross of a cold-tolerant temperate japonica cultivar (M-202) with a cold-sensitive indica cultivar (IR50). Different temperature regimes were applied in growth chambers on 191 RILs. The temperature regimes imposed in the growth chamber simulated cold-stress injuries at the seedling and late vegetative stages. In this study a major QTL was identified on chromosome 12, designated as qCTS12a, that was closely associated with cold-induced necrosis and wilting tolerance, and accounted for 41% of the phenotypic variation. A number of QTLs with smaller effects were also detected on eight rice chromosomes.
12967258	Nutrient digestibility of broiler feeds containing different levels of variously processed rice bran stored for varying periods was determined. A total of 444 Hubbard male chicks were used to conduct four trials. Each trial was carried out on 111 chicks to determine digestibility of 36 different feeds. Chicks of 5 wk age were fed feeds containing raw, roasted, and extruded rice bran treated with antioxidant, Bianox Dry (0, 125, 250 g/ton), stored for a periods of 0, 4, 8, and 12 mo and used at levels of 0, 10, 20, and 30% in feeds. Digestibility coefficients for fat and fiber of feeds were determined. Increasing storage periods of rice bran significantly reduced the fat digestibility of feed, whereas no difference in fiber digestibility was observed. Processing of rice bran by extrusion cooking significantly increased digestibility of fat even used at higher levels in broiler feeds. Interaction of storage, processing, and levels was significant for fat digestibility. Treatments of rice bran by different levels of antioxidant had no effect on digestibility of fat and fiber when incorporated in broiler feed.
12968468	Milled rice and bran were prepared from brown rice (Oryza sativa japonica) using a commercial scale rice-mill to investigate the changes in cadmium (Cd) content caused by the milling process. Rice sample solution was prepared by microwave digestion using HNO3 and HF, then analyzed by ICP-MS. Cd was measured at m/z 114 in interference correction with MoO and Sn. The digestion method was validated with 4 kinds of certified reference material of "rice flour". We found that the Cd content was reduced only slightly by the milling process. When the Cd concentration of brown rice was regarded as 100, the relative content of the milled rice was 97 (average of 6 samples). In addition, the reduction of the Cd content was only slight when milled rice was processed to "wash-free" rice. The relative Cd content of the bran was 139 when that of brown rice was regarded as 100. These results support the hypothesis that the Cd content is not greatly decreased by the milling process.
1296977	The availability of nitrogen, lysine and nine essential amino acids was determined in rice flour and cooked rice. Lysine availability was determined by the growth response method using regression analysis of body weight gain or moisture gain against lysine consumed from rice flour and cooked rice. The results show a good correlation between lysine consumed and weight gain or moisture gain (r = 0.86 + 0.8) for rats fed cooked rice and fair correlation for those fed rice flour. The results of lysine availability show that cooking increases availability by both ways of calculation. The availability of nitrogen and of essential amino acids was also determined by the balance trial method with rats. Results of balance trial show that cooking has no significant effect on essential amino acids availability. Data for weight gain, food efficiency and PER were significantly decreased by cooking.
12970476	Several brittle culm mutations of rice (Oryza sativa) causing fragility of plant tissues have been identified genetically but not characterized at a molecular level. We show here that the genes responsible for three distinct brittle mutations of rice, induced by the insertion of the endogenous retrotransposon Tos17, correspond to CesA (cellulose synthase catalytic subunit) genes, OsCesA4, OsCesA7 and OsCesA9. Three CesA genes were expressed in seedlings, culms, premature panicles, and roots but not in mature leaves, and the expression profiles were almost identical among the three genes. Cellulose contents were dramatically decreased (8.9%-25.5% of the wild-type level) in the culms of null mutants of the three genes, indicating that these genes are not functionally redundant. Consistent with these results, cell walls in the cortical fiber cells were shown to be thinner in all the mutants than in wild-type plants. Based on these observations, the structure of a cellulose-synthesizing complex involved in the synthesis of the secondary cell wall is discussed.
12970480	Zinc is an essential mineral for a wide variety of physiological and biochemical processes. To understand zinc transport in cereals, we identified putative zinc transporters in gene databases. Three full-length cDNAs were identified and characterized from rice (Oryza sativa). Two of the cDNAs partially complemented a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant deficient in zinc uptake at low concentrations. The two transporters showed many similarities in function but differed in ionic selectivity and pH optimum of activity. Expression patterns also differed between the two genes. One gene was broadly expressed under all conditions, and the other gene was mainly induced by zinc deficiency to higher levels in roots than in leaves. Although the timing of expression differed between the two genes, localization of expression overlapped in roots. Comparisons of the protein sequences, ionic selectivity, and gene expression patterns of the two transporters suggest that they may play different roles in the physiology of the whole plant.
12970483	As an important step toward free access and, thus, impact of GoldenRice, a freedom-to-operate situation has been achieved for developing countries for the technology involved. Specifically, to carry the invention beyond its initial "proof-of-concept" status in a Japonica rice (Oryza sativa) cultivar, we report here on two transformed elite Indica varieties (IR64 and MTL250) plus one Japonica variety Taipei 309. Indica varieties are predominantly consumed in the areas with vitamin A deficiency. To conform with regulatory constraints, we changed the vector backbone, investigated the absence of beyond-border transfer, and relied on Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation to obtain defined integration patterns. To avoid an antibiotic selection system, we now rely exclusively on phosphomannose isomerase as the selectable marker. Single integrations were given a preference to minimize potential epigenetic effects in subsequent generations. These novel lines, now in the T(3) generation, are highly valuable because they are expected to more readily receive approval for follow-up studies such as nutritional and risk assessments and for breeding approaches leading to locally adapted variety development.
12971255	A study on soil reclamation for cultivation of Mauritius grass was conducted on soils obtained from abandoned shrimp ponds at Ranote District, Songkhla Province, southern Thailand. A glass house experiment on the reclamation of the soils included desalination by leaching soils using various amounts of deionised water, rice husk, plant nutrients and gypsum as well as an omission pot trial experiment. The result showed that Mauritius grass survived in the treatment with > or = 15 L of water, > or = 2% of rice husk with gypsum added or > or = 8% of rice husk without gypsum added. The yield of Mauritius grass increased with increases in the amounts of water for desalination and rice husk. Thus, the highest yield of grass with a height of 148.3 cm, 12.7 tillers/pot and dry weight of 46.43 g/pot was observed in the gypsum added treatment with the highest amount of water and rice husk (25 L of water and 8% by weight of rice husk). Therefore, salinity and unfavourable structure of the abandoned pond soils were major factors governing the survival ability and growth of the grass. The omission pot trial experiment revealed that growth of the grass responded to the application of P, Ca, Mg and S, though existing amounts of such plant nutrient elements in the soils were adequate for plant growth. The anomalous characteristics were probably explained by soil pH, salinity and imbalance of plant nutrient elements.
12971868	To understand the existing food beliefs regarding hot, cold and badi (gas-producing) properties of different food items and also to assess whether there is any relationship with education of women and these beliefs. A cross-sectional study. Community Health Center (CHC), The Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi from July to September 2000. Four hundred adult female respondents, who came to CHC as a patient or as an attendant, were interviewed after taking verbal consent. A self-administered pre-coded and pre-tested questionnaire was filled by the respondent. Descriptive frequencies and cross tabulation were computed to assess the existing food beliefs. Chi-square test was used to assess the association between education level of women and belief regarding these food items. More than three-fourth of respondents were literate. The percentages of respondents saying that certain foods were hot, cold and badi were 71%, 55% and 80% respectively. Meat, either beef or mutton, fish, egg, chicken, was perceived as hot by majority of the respondents. Majority of vegetables was perceived as cold foods in our study. The other foods like rice, yogurt, banana, watermelon, milk and cold drink were also thought to be cold by many of the respondents. Cabbage, cauliflower, potato, rice, gram and mash pulses (chane and mash-ki-dal) were highly rated as badi foods. Level of education of women didn t show any statistically significant difference in keeping beliefs regarding hot, cold and badi properties of food items. A significant concept of different properties of food exists in our culture. We recommend future studies to explore scientific basis for classifying hot, cold or badi foods and also to look into its impact on health by their restriction based on their beliefs.
12972297	Programmed cell death (PCD) is very much a part of plant life, although the underlying mechanisms are not so well understood as in animals. In animal cells, the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), a major mitochondrial outer membrane transporter, plays an important role in apoptosis by participating in the release of intermembrane space proteins. To characterize plant PCD pathways by investigating the function of putative components in a mammalian apoptotic context, we have overexpressed a rice VDAC (osVDAC4) in the Jurkat T-cell line. Overexpression of osVDAC4 induces apoptosis, which can be blocked by Bcl-2 and the VDAC inhibitor DIDS. Modifying endogenous VDAC function by DIDS and hexokinase II (HxKII) in Jurkat cells inhibits mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathways. Finally, we show that DIDS also abrogates heat-induced PCD in cucumber cotyledons. Our data suggest that VDAC is a conserved mitochondrial element of the death machinery in both plant and animal cells.
12972663	Bowman-Birk inhibitor (BBI) genes encode serine protease inhibitors that have repetitive cysteine-rich domains with reactive sites for the trypsin or chymotrypsin family. We have identified seven BBI genes from japonica rice (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica var Teqing). All of the genes identified were found in a single cluster on the southern end of the long arm of rice chromosome 1. Four of the seven BBI genes have two repetitive cysteine-rich domains, whereas one has a truncated domain with only one reactive site. We have also identified three novel BBI genes, each of which possesses three repetitive domains instead of two. In situ hybridization analyses indicated that the accumulation of rice BBI transcripts was differentially regulated in germinating embryos and also in the leaves, roots, and flower organs at later developmental stages. Different members of the rice BBI gene family displayed different expression patterns during rice seed germination, and wounding induced the expression of rice BBI transcripts. The three-domain BBIs had higher expression levels than the two-domain BBIs. It was also found that the mRNA of rice BBI genes was present in abundant amounts in scutellar epithelium and aleurone layer cells. RBBI3-1, one of the three-domain RBBI, exhibited in vitro trypsin-inhibiting activity but no chymotrypsin-inhibiting activity. Overexpression of RBBI2-3 in transgenic rice plants resulted in resistance to the fungal pathogen Pyricularia oryzae, indicating that proteinase inhibitors confer resistance against the fungal pathogen in vivo and that they might play a role in the defense system of the rice plant.
12972694	A study of lanthanum nitrate on the seed germination and the growth of rice was conducted. The results of this experiment indicate that soaking in a proper concentration of La(NO3)3 could accelerate the germination of the rice seeds, significantly increase seed vigor and chlorophyll contents, and improve root growth. Because during the soaking stage with La(NO3)3 the absorbed water and imbibition process of the rice seeds was quickened, the plasma membrane permeability of the seeds was increased, O2 and H2O were easier to get into the cell, and the respiratory rate was enhanced. During the germination stage, La(NO3)3 could enhance the activities of alpha-amylase, proteinase, lipase, and other hydrolytic enzymes and the contents of plant hormones, such as IAA, GAs, CTK, and so forth, except ABA contents, changed little.
12973592	During the late 70's and early 80's in Mexico, as in the rest of Latin-America, sanitary policies were directed to support the growth of the private sector of health care at the expense of the public sector. This work analyzes the evolution of the health insurance market as a part of the privatization process of health care. The analysis based on economic data, provides the political profile behind the privatization process as well as the changes in the relations between the State and the health sector. The central hypothesis is that the State promotes and supports the growth of the private market of medical care via a series of legal, fiscal and market procedures. It also discusses the State roll in the legal changes related to the national insurance activity. A comparative analysis is made about the evolution of the insurance industry in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Mexico during the period 1986-1992, with a particular enfasis in the last country. One of the principal results is that the Premium/GNP and Premium/per capita, display a general growth in the 4 countries. This growth is faster for Mexico for each one) because the privatization process occurred only during the most recent years. For the 1984-1991 period in Mexico the direct premium as percentage of the GNP raised from 0.86% to 1.32%. If one focussed only in the insurance for health and accidents branches the rice goes form 8.84% in 1984 to 19.08% in 1991. This indicates that the insurance industry is one of the main targets of the privatization process of the health care system in Mexico. This is also shown by the State support to fast expansion of the big medical industrial complex of the country. Considering this situation in the continuity of the neoliberal model of Mexico, this will profound the inequity and inequality.
12973995	In this paper, the characteristics of canopy structure, such as the numbers of seedling, panicle and grain, the distribution of dry matters in different canopy layers and different organs, and the distributions of LAI and of solar radiation in different canopy layers of super high yielding community of japonica hybrid rice were studied, in comparison with normal japonica rice. The results showed that the total the dry matter weight and the dry matter weight of layers below 40 cm, 40-60 cm, 60-80 cm and above 80 cm of japonica hybrid rice canopy were 32.29%, 29.12%, 13.95%, 16.45% and 100.17% higher those that of normal japonica rice, respectively. The ratios of dry leaf (photosynthetic organ) and of dry panicle (sink organ) weight to total dry weight were 24.8% and 12.8%, respectively, which were greater than those of normal japonica rice, while the ratios of dry sheath and stem (storage organs) weight were 33.6% and 28.9%, respectively, which were lower than those of normal japonica rice. The allotment of LAI in different layers of japonica hybrid rice canopy was reasonable, and the LAI of above 40 cm layer at full heading stage reached 5.44. The solar radiation was well-distributed inside japonica hybrid rice canopy, for example, the solar radiation in layers below 60 cm were 13.1%-37.0% higher, but 5.9%-12.2% lower above 60 cm than that of normal japonica rice. The extinction coefficients of solar radiation in layers below 20 cm, 20-40 cm, 40-60 cm and 60-80 cm of japonica hybrid rice canopy were 35.1%, 13.5%, 29.1% and 17.2% lower than that of normal japonica rice, respectively.
12974000	This paper mainly dealt with the pathways of sulfur (S) input and output in agro-ecosystems under general cropping rotations in northern China. The results indicated that in a typical corn-wheat rotation system, S output by the crop products was 26.4 kg.hm-2, and 6.8 kg.hm-2 of S was returned to the soil through root and plant residues. Under wheat-soybean rotation, 24.4 kg.hm-2 of S was removed from and 7.2 kg.hm-2 of S were returned to the soil. Under the rotation of corn with rape, up to 45.4 kg.hm2 was taken out from and only 8.7 kg.hm-2 returned to the soil, respectively. 7.9, 6.4, 6.7 and 18.9 kg.hm-2 of S output by products and 2.6, 1.8, 4.3 and 5.6 kg.hm-2 of S input by residues were obtained in cotton, sorghum, peanuts and paddy rice, respectively. Through estimation of S balance for these systems, 6, 8.5, 24 and 7.1 kg.hm-2.yr-1 of S was lost from soil by growing wheat, corn, rape and paddy rice, respectively.
12974001	The approach of mRNA differential display (DD) was used to analyze the gene differential expression of rice seedling subjected to lowly enhanced Ultraviolet-B radiation. The results showed that of the eighteen differential fragments, fifteen ones were different in expressional levels, another one was depressed, and the other two, named as RUVB1 and RUVB2 respectively, which could be recovered and re-amplified, were specifically induced. Sequence analysis for RUVB2 through Internet BLAST searching indicated that it was more than 95% identities with three rice ESTs, but very low similarity to others in the GenBank, and was mapped on the OSJNBb0091N21BAC(GenBank accession No.: AC091122) in Oryza sativa L.
12974142	The anthropometric pattern, demographics data, lifestyle factors and several aspects of morbidity were analyzed for 400 Cuban women ages 40-60 years. More than 85% of women were obese, being these in direct association with morphology typically androgens, more evident in the postmenopausal women. In these women observed less body mass index and overweight, in an equivalent way between pre and postmenopausal women. A moderate consumption of rice, was evidenced, pastas and vegetables, few candies and fatty, what points to or quite acceptable knowledge of the harmful effect of some foods, to weigh that the shadowy use of saturated fats and not saturated it was the most frequent thing. By multifactor approach it is possible to make relation between nutritional patterns, morphology and climacteric symptoms; Cuban women present a different frequencies from an other literature showing the risk of generalist this studies and health's actions.
12974347	Nine Monochoria vaginalis Pres1 accessions from Chonnam province, Korea were tested for resistance to the sulfonylurea herbicide, imazosulfuron, in whole-plant response bioassay. All accessions were confirmed resistant (R) to imazosulfuron. The GR50 (imazosulfuron concentration that reduced shoot dry weight by 50%) values of R accessions were 1112-3172 (accession #9) times higher than that of the standard susceptible (S) accession. Accession #9 exhibited cross-resistance to other sulfonylurea herbicides, bensulfuron-methyl, cyclosulfamuron and pyrazosulfuron-ethyl, but not to the imidazolinone herbicides, imazapyr and imazaquin. The R biotype could be controlled by other herbicides with different modes of action, such as mefenacet and pyrazolate, applied to soil at recommended rates. Foliar-applied herbicides, 2,4-D and bentazone, also controlled both the R and S biotypes. Sulfonylurea-based mixtures, except ethoxysulfuron plus fentrazamide, did not control resistant M. vaginalis. Rice yield was reduced 70% by resistant M. vaginalis that escaped pyrazosulfuron-ethyl plus molinate, compared with hand weeding in direct-seeded rice culture. In contrast, rice yield was reduced 44% by resistant M. vaginalis that survived the pyrazosulfuron-ethyl plus molinate treatment, compared with pyrazolate plus butachlor in transplanted rice culture. In vitro acetolactate synthase (ALS) activity of the R biotype was 183, 35, 130 and 31 times more resistant to imazosulfuron, bensulfuron-methyl, cyclosulfamuron and pyrazosulfuron-ethyl, respectively, than the S biotype. Imidazolinone herbicides, imazapyr and imazaquin had similar effect on in vitro ALS activity of the R and S biotypes. The in vivo ALS activity of the R biotype was also less affected than the S biotype by the sulfonylurea herbicides imazosulfuron and pyrazosulfuron-ethyl. Results of in vitro and in vivo ALS assays indicate that the resistance mechanism of M. vaginalis to sulfonylurea herbicides may be due, in part, to an alteration in the target enzyme, ALS. Since the level of resistance in the enzyme assay was much lower than that in the whole-plant assay, other mechanisms of resistance, such as herbicide metabolism, may be involved.
12974356	LGC-42153, 2-fluoro-1-[3-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-ylcarbamoylsulfamoyl)pyridin-2-yl] propyl methoxyacetate, is a new sulfonylurea herbicide for use in rice. Its breakdown and metabolism was studied in soil under flooded conditions using two radioactive tracer compounds labelled at either the propyl group or the pyrimidine ring. The half-life of LGC-42153 was approximately 3.0 days. The mass balance over 120 days ranged from 94.0 to 104.2% of applied radiocarbon, and no significant amount of volatiles or [14C]carbon dioxide were observed. Solvent non-extractable radiocarbon reached about 11-14% of applied radiocarbon at 120 days after treatment. The major metabolic reaction was the cleavage of the carboxyl ester bond to give 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl)-3-[2-(1-hydroxy-2-fluoropropyl)pyridine-3-sulfonyl]urea, which underwent hydrolysis of the sulfonylurea bridge giving 2-(1-hydroxy-2-fluoro)propyl-3-pyridinesulfonamide and 4,6-dimethoxy-2-aminopyrimidine.
12974407	Effects of various environmental stresses such as heavy metals, salts and low (high) temperature on the secretion of peroxidase isozyme into the medium were examined in rice (Oryza sativa cv. Nak-Dong) suspension culture. The major extracellular peroxidases secreted into the medium by various stresses were cationic isoperoxidases. A far migrating cationic isoperoxidase RC3 was isolated from the medium after application of CaCl2, the effective stimulator for peroxidase secretion. Isolation of extracellular isoperoxidase RC3 was accomplished by ammonium sulfate fractionation, CM-cellulose cation-exchange chromatography, and Sephacryl S-100 gel filtration. The enzyme was a glycoprotein having molecular weight of approximately 34 KDa as determined by SDS-PAGE and 38 KDa by Sephacryl S-100 gel filtration. The pI value of the enzyme was 8.9. Kinetic studies revealed that the optimum pH of the enzyme was 6.0 for guaiacol and H2O2, and the Km values for guaiacol and H2O2 were 10.5 mM and 3.2 mM, respectively.
12974810	Asymmetric cell division is one of the most important mechanisms in the diversification of cell function and fate. In Arabidopsis, SCARECROW (SCR) is essential for the asymmetric division of the cortex/endodermis progenitor cell in the root. To learn more about how SCR is involved in asymmetric division, we analyzed the rice SCR (OsSCR) expression. In the root tip, OsSCR expression was observed in the endodermal cell layer and downregulated in the daughter cortex cell after asymmetric division, just as with Arabidopsis SCR. In leaf primordia, expression of OsSCR was observed in stomatal and ligule formation. In stomatal development, OsSCR was specifically expressed in the stomatal cell files before formation of guard mother cells (GMCs), and then, its expression was localized in GMCs, when the first asymmetric division occurred to generate the GMCs. Before the second asymmetric division of subsidiary mother cells (SMCs), localized OsSCR expression was observed in SMCs in the area close to the GMCs. Before these asymmetric divisions, the localization of OsSCR mRNA in GMC-forming cells and SMCs was observed in the area of the daughter GMC and subsidiary cells. OsSCR expression was also observed in the initiation area of ligule formation, and its downregulation occurred in the inner L2 cells generated by asymmetric division. Based on these observations, we proposed that OsSCR is involved not only in the asymmetric division of the cortex/endodermis progenitor cell but also during stomata and ligule formation by establishing the polarization of cytoplasm.
12974813	The CONSTANS (CO) gene of Arabidopsis plays a key role in the photoperiodic flowering pathway. To investigate photoperiod responses in cereals in more detail, we isolated three kinds of CO/Hd1 (rice ortholog of CO) homolog from hexaploid wheat, derived from the A, B, and D genomes and designated as wheat ortholog of CO from A genome (TaHd1-1), TaHd1-2, and TaHd1-3, respectively. They were highly similar to each other and to Hd1, and in addition harbored two conserved regions: two zinc finger motifs and CONSTANS, CONSTANS-LIKE and TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION 1 (CCT) domain like CO/Hd1. They were located on the long arm of the homoeologous chromosome 6. TaHd1-2 harbored a 63-bp deletion at the promoter region containing the GATA-1 box, and consequently, we detected no subsequent transcript. The TaHd1-1 genomic clone was introduced to a rice line deficient in Hd1 function. Transgenic plants complemented the functions of rice Hd1: they promoted heading under short-day (SD) conditions and delayed it under long-day (LD)/natural conditions, indicating that Hd1 proteins from SD and LD plants share common structures and functions.
12974814	Previously, we identified a novel rice gene, GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR1 (OsGRF1), which encodes a putative transcription factor that appears to play a regulatory role in stem elongation. We now describe the GRF gene family of Arabidopsis thaliana (AtGRF), which comprises nine members. The deduced AtGRF proteins contain the same characteristic regions--the QLQ (Gln, Leu, Gln) and WRC (Trp, Arg, Cys) domains--as do OsGRF1 and related proteins in rice, as well as features indicating a function in transcriptional regulation. Most of the AtGRF genes are strongly expressed in actively growing and developing tissues, such as shoot tips, flower buds, and roots, but weakly in mature stem and leaf tissues. Overexpression of AtGRF1 and AtGRF2 resulted in larger leaves and cotyledons, as well as in delayed bolting of the inflorescence stem when compared to wild-type plants. In contrast, triple insertional null mutants of AtGRF1-AtGRF3 had smaller leaves and cotyledons, whereas single mutants displayed no changes in phenotype and double mutants displayed only minor ones. The alteration of leaf growth in overexpressors and triple mutants was based on an increase or decrease in cell size, respectively. These results indicate that AtGRF proteins play a role in the regulation of cell expansion in leaf and cotyledon tissues.
12974815	We generated T-DNA insertions throughout the rice genome for saturation mutagenesis. More than 1,000 flanking sequences were mapped on 12 rice chromosomes. Our results showed that T-DNA tags were not randomly spread on rice chromosomes and were preferentially inserted in gene-rich regions. Few insertions (2.4%) were found in repetitive regions. T-DNA insertions in genic (58.1%) and intergenic regions (41.9%) showed a good correlation with the predicted size distribution of these sequences in the rice genome. Whereas, obvious biases were found for the insertions in the 5'- and 3'-regulatory regions outside the coding regions both at 500-bp size and in introns rather than in exons. Such distribution patterns and biases for T-DNA integration in rice are similar to that of the previous report in Arabidopsis, which may result from T-DNA integration mechanism itself. Rice will require approximately the same number of T-DNA insertions for saturation mutagenesis as will Arabidopsis. A database of the T-DNA insertion sites in rice is publicly available at our web site (http://www.genomics.zju.edu.cn/ricetdna).
12974950	The fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda, consists of two host strains (rice and corn) that differ in developmental, physiological and behavioural characteristics. However, because the strains are morphologically indistinguishable the investigation of strain-specific behaviour, particularly in the wild, is very difficult. This has spurred the isolation of diagnostic molecular markers. FR sequences are tandem-repeat genetic elements found in large clusters only in the rice strain. To facilitate their use as a strain marker we genetically mapped FR clusters and found they localized to the sex chromosomes. This represents one of the first examples of chromosome mapping in fall armyworm. The FR sequence and a strain-specific mitochondrial marker were then used to examine the distribution of different marker combinations in field specimens. These studies identified significant barriers to interstrain mating in the wild, specifically that corn strain females rarely, if ever, mate with rice strain males. The data also suggest that only a genetically distinct subset of the overwintering rice strain population in Florida annually migrate to Georgia. These studies demonstrate that the availability of genetically characterized molecular markers for strain identity makes possible studies on fall armyworm biology in the wild previously considered unfeasible.
12976580
1298606	An epidemic of food poisoning in human beings occurred in Tongxiang County, Zhejiang Province after eating mouldy rice contaminated with Fusarium and toxins. Continuous rainfall took place during the rice harvest season. The number of patients poisoned was 97, the rate of incidence was 58.8%. The incubation period was 10 to 30 minutes. The chief symptoms were nausea, dizziness, vomiting, chills, abdominal distension, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The fungi isolated from the mouldy rice were predominantly Fusarium heterosporum and F. graminearum. T-2 toxin was found in the mouldy rice and the highest content was 420 ppb.
130073	Non-heme iron absorption from three Burmese meals was measured using the method of adding extrinsic radioiron tracer to label the non-heme iron in the whole meals. Thirty-one healthy Burmese subjects were divided into three groups, each of which was given one type of meal. The absorption of reference ferrous ascorbate was also measured in all subjects and used to calibrate the observed absorption values when comparing different groups. Non-heme iron absorption from the basal meal of rice, vegetables, and spices containing 7.6 mg of total iron was 1.4%. Addition of 40 g of fish to the basal meal increased absorption to 6.4% in men and 11.9% in women. Relative absorption from the third type of meal, consisting of different proportions of rice and vegetables and less fish, was also higher than from the basal meal. Non-heme iron absorption from a Southeast Asian diet similar to the Burmese rice and vegetable diet would be insufficient to maintain iron balance. But it is improbable that such a diet is eaten all the time.
13008278
13008635
1300965	Pica is a habit disorder involving the compulsive, irrational ingestion of nutrient or non-nutrient substances which usually, in young infants, include clay and earth. Pica is rare in adolescents but is more likely to occur in subjects with severe iron deficiency. 17 (16 girls, 1 boy) cases of pica were recognized over a period of 4 years in an adolescent unit. 15 of the cases presented with anemia and/or iron deficiency. Hematological and biochemical investigations included measurements of hemoglobin content, MCV, serum iron and ferritin, transferrin saturation and serum iron-binding capacity. Blood loss was considered as a possible cause in all patients. 13 of the patients ingested large amounts of raw rice and 11 ingested ice cubes; 10 patients ingested both substances. Their mean serum ferritin was 7.17 ng/ml and the mean hemoglobin was 8.7 g/dl. One out of 7 patients showed intestinal blood loss. Excessive menstrual bleeding occurred in 8 girls. All patients were treated with adequate amounts of iron. Pica disappeared within a few weeks, although biochemical evidence of iron deficiency persisted in some patients. In one case, pica persisted despite correction of the iron deficiency. Pica is more prevalent in lower socio-economic classes and in some areas, such as the island of Reunion. It may be masked, and must be looked for in adolescents presenting with signs of iron deficiency. Treatment of the iron deficiency is usually followed by its disappearance.
13011019
13013093
13022289
1302636	Two types of genes (Adk-a, and Adk-b) encoding for adenylate kinase (AK, EC 2.7.4.3.) were isolated from the cDNA library constructed from poly(A)+ RNA of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Two cDNAs were heterogeneous at 5' and 3' ends of non-coding sequences and had possible polyadenylation signals. One of the genes, Adk-a, had 1154 bp sequences encoding 241 amino acid residues, while the other type, Adk-b, contained 1085 bp sequences encoding for 243 amino acid residues. Homology between Adk-a and Adk-b was 73.7% in nucleotide sequences, and 90.8% in amino acid level. Two genes showed about 53% homology to bovine mitochondrial adenylate kinase (AK2) at nucleotide and amino acid levels. Concerning the codon usage of rice AK genes, T was abundant at the third position of a codon in the reading frames. In order to examine the enzyme activity of the protein encoded by the rice cDNA, Adk-a was cloned into an expression vector, pUC119, which was introduced into Escherichia coli strain CV2, a temperature-sensitive mutant of adenylate kinase. We found that the transformant carrying the rice Adk-a gene in the sense orientation recovered cell growth at non-permissive high temperature (42 degrees C) and expressed enzyme activities higher than the untransformed CV2 and the transformant possessing Adk-a cDNA in the antisense orientation. These observations suggest that rice Adk-a codes a biologically active enzyme. Furthermore, sucrose was found to regulate the transcription of AK genes in rice cell cultures. Organ related accumulation of mRNA in whole plants was also found.
13029953
1303047	The Laboratory of Parasitology of Istituto Superiore di Sanità acts as a coordinating centre for anophelism data collection in Italy, and collaborates with the health local authorities. This specific investigation takes into consideration several areas in the provinces of Grosseto and Siena, focusing attention on the rice fields, which are today the most important anopheline breeding sites in Maremma. The records collected in collaboration with the Department of Environmental Zoology (USL 28 Grosseto), show a high density of A. labranchiae, the potential malaria vector, in the coastal areas of Grosseto province, and a decreased susceptibility to some insecticides. Among the other anopheline species found, only A. atroparvus (the species most present on the inland hills of the provinces of Grosseto and Siena) show a remarkable density.
1303426	The purpose of toxicology in legal medicine is to determine the presence of chemicals effecting the human body in biological samples and to interpret the concentrations of chemicals. Analytical methods and medico-legal interpretations of the results of poisoning cases were discussed. 1. "Yusho," PCB poisoning "Yusho" was determined to be PCB poisoning by the detection of PCB in Rice-oil used by a "Yusho" family. My toxicological works were based on the study of "Yusho," which taught me the importance of the collaboration between faculties, the moral of the co-worker, and the PCB contamination in the laboratory. 2. Drugs In order to interpret the concentration of bromvalerylurea in blood, a very sensitive method was developed using a Florisil mini-column for cleaning up, and ECD-GC for analysis. GC/MS is used to determine the concentrations of other drugs in biological samples as well. 3. Pesticides In the first case of fatal ethyl parathion poisoning, only ethyl parathion in the stomach contents was analyzed by ECD-GC, and the cause of death was determined to be ethyl parathion poisoning. In the second case, parathion in the blood, brain, and stomach contents was analyzed. Both cases, however, were not reported in detail in the journal. Joint study on pesticides with the Division of Emergency Medicine is carrying on now. 4. Thinner Male rats were exposed to toluene vapor in pure oxygen, air, and 10%-O2 air. Anesthetic death from thinner vapor was confirmed. It seems that inhalation of toluene in a hypoxic atmosphere, such as from a plastic bag, is very dangerous.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1303957	Two epidemiological studies aimed at investigating the dose-response relationship of environmental cadmium exposure were performed in a population living in the Kakehashi River basin, a cadmium-polluted area in Japan. In the first, the average cadmium concentration in rice from each village was used as an indicator of exposure and metallothioneinuria or beta 2-microglobulinuria as an index of renal tubular dysfunction. Dose-related increases in both the latter indices were observed. The total cadmium intake resulting in both metallothioneinuria and beta 2-microglobulinuria was calculated to be approximately 2 g for both sexes. In the second study, the dose-response relationship between urinary cadmium and metallothioneinuria or beta 2-microglobulinuria was evaluated in the same population. Prevalence rates increased proportionally with increasing urinary cadmium (Cd-U). The values of Cd-U corresponding to the prevalence rates of metallothioneinuria in the non-exposed population were calculated to be 4.2 micrograms/g creatinine for men and 4.8 micrograms/g creatinine for women; for beta 2-microglobulinuria the corresponding figures were 3.8 micrograms/g creatinine for men and 4.1 micrograms/g creatinine for women.
1303974	Over 2000 blood samples and about 1000 24-h total food duplicates were collected in 49 non-polluted regions in Japan, and analysed for cadmium (Cd-B and Cd-F). Cd-B increased with age to reach a plateau at 40-59 years, where the geometric mean (GM) Cd-B was 3.2 ng/ml in men and 3.7 ng/ml in women. Smoking also increased Cd-B. The GMs of Cd-F were 43.9 and 37.0 micrograms/day for men and women, respectively, with boiled rice as a major source of cadmium (> 40%). Cd-B correlated significantly with Cd-F when compared on a regional mean basis. Similar Cd-B analyses among non-smoking women showed that Cd-B was lower in Korea (ca. 1.6 ng/ml) and in China (1.3 ng/ml) than in Japan. This observation is in accordance with the fact that rice in Korea (16.1 ng/g dry weight) and China (7.6 ng/g) contained less cadmium than that in Japan (52.5 ng/g). A preliminary follow-up in 1989 suggests a decrease in Cd-B (by ca. 30%) among the Japanese population, probably due to a reduction in cadmium in rice (ca. 14%) and a decreased rice intake.
13049617
13051899
13053269
13061054
13063051
13067307
13071104
13072538
13074868
13082852
13086403
13094714
1309476	Six normolipidemic males ingested on separate days a low-fiber test meal [2.8 g dietary fiber (TDF)] containing 70 g fat and 756 mg cholesterol, enriched or not with 10 g TDF as oat bran, rice bran, or wheat fiber or 4.2 g TDF as wheat germ. Fasting and postmeal blood samples were obtained for 7 h and chylomicrons were isolated. Adding fibers to the test meal induced no change in serum glucose or insulin responses. The serum triglyceride response was lower (P less than or equal to 0.05) in the presence of oat bran, wheat fiber, or wheat germ and chylomicron triglycerides were reduced with wheat fiber. All fiber sources reduced chylomicron cholesterol. Cholesterolemia decreased postprandially for 6 h and was further lowered in the presence of oat bran. Serum apolipoprotein (apo) A-1 and apo B concentrations were not affected. Thus, dietary fibers from cereals may reduce postprandial lipemia in humans to a variable extent.
13101066
1310112	To evaluate the impact of key dietary factors on plasma lipoproteins and gallstone induction, male Syrian hamsters were fed either cholesterol and fat-supplemented purified diets containing glucose or lactose, or cholesterol and fat-free diets with or without fiber, for 13 wk. Fat-supplemented hamsters were hyperlipidemic in comparison to those fed fat-free diets. The former group revealed a greatly expanded VLDL fraction, whereas a normal HDL2 pool predominated in the latter group. Plasma fatty acids indicated that hamsters fed the fat-free diet were essential fatty acid deficient whilst the hamsters fed the fat-supplemented diet were subnormal in essential fatty acids. Ninety-three percent of the hamsters fed the fat-supplemented diet had gallstones (mostly cholesterol), whereas 62% of hamsters fed the fat-free diet had gallstones (almost all pigmented). Lactose increased cecal weight and prevented pigment stone formation in the fat-supplemented hamsters, whereas adding fiber to the fat-free diet contributed essential fatty acids, eliminated cholesterol stones and enhanced pigment stone formation. Thus, diets containing casein, rice flour, glucose and fiber with minimal essential fatty acids but no cholesterol promoted pigment stones (associated with a normal lipoprotein profile); a low fat diet limited in essential fatty acids but containing cholesterol and lactose, promoted cholesterol gallstones (associated with an expanded VLDL pool).
1310550	Fifteen healthy women were given a standardized calcium-rich diet (1800 mg calcium/day) with or without 36 g bran for 5 days. A similar study was also carried out with rice, soy and wheat bran. Urine samples were also collected 24 h. With all brans renal calcium excretion decreased and renal oxalic acid excretion increased. However, influence of rice bran was statistically significant. After 5 days of consuming 36 g rice bran/day 14 of 15 subjects showed decreased calcium excretion, but increased oxalic acid excretion. Relative supersaturation with calcium oxalate, as a measure for the risk of calcium stone formation, increased after addition of all brans.
13113175
1311755	This study was conducted to determine the relative cholesterol-lowering effects of several levels of full-fat rice bran in hamsters. In addition, the separate effects of defatted rice bran and/or crude rice bran oil were investigated at levels equivalent to those present in 43.7% full-fat rice bran. Diets containing 10.9, 21.8, 32.8 or 43.7% full-fat rice bran, 35% defatted rice bran and/or 9% rice bran oil were fed to 4-wk-old male hamsters. All diets contained 10% total dietary fiber, 9% fat and 3.2% nitrogen; hypercholesterolemic diets contained 0.3% cholesterol; two diets were cholesterol-free, i.e., 10% cellulose and 43.7% full-fat rice bran. After 21 d, plasma and liver cholesterol, plasma triglycerides and liver weights were significantly greater in hamsters fed the 10% cellulose diet with 0.3% cholesterol compared with those fed the cholesterol-free cellulose diet. In animals fed cholesterol-free diets, plasma cholesterol values were significantly lower in those fed the 43.7% full-fat rice bran diet than in those fed the cellulose diet. In animals fed cholesterol-containing diets, plasma and liver cholesterol were significantly lower in animals fed the 43.7% full-fat rice bran diet than in those fed the cellulose diet. Plasma cholesterol reductions were significantly correlated to the level of rice bran in the diet. In cholesterol-fed hamsters, total liver cholesterol content was significantly lower in those fed the defatted rice bran diet with rice bran oil compared with those fed the cellulose diet. Full-fat rice bran was the only treatment that significantly lowered both plasma and liver cholesterol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
13120092
1312033	Poliovirus, a picornavirus family member, requires the processing of its poly-protein by its own cysteine proteinase for replication. Oryzacystatin-I and oryzacystatin-II, proteinaceous cysteine proteinase inhibitors (cystatins) of rice seed origin, were found to inhibit the replication of poliovirus effectively in infected Vero cells in vitro. Truncated oryzacystatin-I, which lacks the NH2-terminal 25 amino acid residues of the intact protein, is an even more effective inhibitor, eliciting its effect at concentrations of less than 0.25 nmol/ml. The low molecular weight cysteine proteinase inhibitors, E-64, E-64C and loxistatin, showed no anti-viral effect at any concentration investigated.
13121329
13129457	Improvement in the nutritional quality of Bangladeshi rice-based diets is sought through increasing the amounts of vegetables, fish and legumes consumed. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of rice-based diets on selected parameters of Ca and P availability and retention in young, growing rats. The study was designed as a randomised balance trial with five diets, eight animals per diet, and two balance periods of 1 week each. Apart from diet 1, which was a pure rice diet, the other four diets were composite diets and included the leafy vegetable, amaranth leaves (Amaranthus gangeticus), the small fish, mola (Amblypharyngodon mola), and lentils (Lens culinaris) in different amounts to simulate the average rural rice-based diet, the recommended diet, the recommended diet diluted with starch, and the recommended diet excluding amaranth leaves. The inclusion of amaranth leaves, mola and lentils significantly improved N and growth retention in the rats compared with the pure rice diet. However, a minor addition of amaranth (0.66 g/100 g DM) significantly reduced the fractional Ca absorption and retention. Femur bone mass and Ca and P densities were significantly lower in the rats fed the diets that included amaranth leaves. The observed inhibitory effect of the amaranth leaves on Ca absorption and utilisation was probably due to the oxalate content. It is concluded that the formulation of a recommended diet cannot be based only on nutrient content values of individual food components due to interactions between nutrients and anti-nutrients in the diet.
13130077	The aerial architecture of plants is determined primarily by the pattern of shoot branching. Although shoot apical meristem initiation during embryogenesis has been extensively studied by molecular genetic approaches using Arabidopsis, little is known about the genetic mechanisms controlling axillary meristem initiation, mainly because of the insufficient number of mutants that specifically alter it. We identified the LAX PANICLE (LAX) and SMALL PANICLE (SPA) genes as the main regulators of axillary meristem formation in rice. LAX encodes a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor and is expressed in the boundary between the shoot apical meristem and the region of new meristem formation. This pattern of LAX expression was repeatedly observed in every axillary meristem, consistent with our observation that LAX is involved in the formation of all types of axillary meristems throughout the ontogeny of a rice plant. Ectopic LAX expression in rice caused pleiotropic effects, including dwarfing, an altered pattern of stem elongation, darker color, bending of the lamina joint, absence of the midribs of leaves, and severe sterility.
1313704
1313762	Eighteen healthy male normocholesterolaemic men consumed diets supplemented with 15 g wheat bran, 15 g and 30 g rice bran for 3-week treatment periods. Plasma lipoprotein concentrations were determined on the last 3 days of each treatment period. Nutrient intakes estimated by analysis of duplicate diets were similar during all treatments. Plasma triglyceride concentrations were statistically significantly (P less than 0.05) lowered by 15 g/day rice bran compared with 15 g/day wheat bran. Plasma total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein and high density lipoprotein cholesterol, apoprotein AI and B concentrations and body weight were unaffected by the supplements. It is concluded that the consumption of realistic amounts of rice bran does not contribute to a reduction in plasma cholesterol concentrations in man.
13140823
13140824
13140825
13140830
13144063
13144071
13144469
13154079
13154080
13154082
13154083
13154084
13154085
13154086
13158069
13160040
13161384
13164148
13164696
13167519
13168096
13170504
13172535
13179718
13181403
13185273
13186837
13188217
13190046
13194783
13204069
13206200
13209958
13215961
13225820
13229586
13229598
13242150
13242153
13246010
13246063
13250347
13250348
1325205	Previous studies have indicated that ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (ADPGlc PPase) from the cyanobacterium Anabaena sp. strain PCC 7120 is more similar to higher-plant than to enteric bacterial enzymes in antigenicity and allosteric properties. In this paper, we report the isolation of the Anabaena ADPGlc PPase gene and its expression in Escherichia coli. The gene we isolated from a genomic library utilizes GTG as the start codon and codes for a protein of 48,347 Da which is in agreement with the molecular mass determined by SDS-PAGE for the Anabaena enzyme. The deduced amino acid sequence is 63, 54, and 33% identical to the rice endosperm small subunit, maize endosperm large subunit, and the E. coli sequences, respectively. Southern analysis indicated that there is only one copy of this gene in the Anabaena genome. The cloned gene encodes an active ADPGlc PPase when expressed in an E. coli mutant strain AC70R1-504 which lacks endogenous activity of the enzyme. The recombinant enzyme is activated and inhibited primarily by 3-phosphoglycerate and Pi, respectively, as is the native Anabaena ADPGlc PPase. Immunological and other biochemical studies further confirmed the recombinant enzyme to be the Anabaena enzyme.
13255669
13259006
1326298	We have previously found that a short interspersed element (SINE), named p-SINE1, is present in the Waxy gene of Oryza sativa in two copies. Here, we cloned five members of p-SINE1 located at other loci in O. sativa and determined their nucleotide sequences. These sequences had a T-rich pyrimidine tract at their defined 3' end and were flanked by direct repeats of a sequence of mostly 14-15 bp long like p-SINE1s in the Waxy gene. The consensus sequence derived from total seven members of p-SINE1 was 123 bp in length and had an internal promoter region for RNA polymerase III. The 5'-half region of the sequence was partially homologous to the tRNA-related block of rabbit C family, one of SINEs in the animal system. Two of the seven p-SINE1 members were not present in the corresponding loci in African rice, Oryza glaberrima, and may thus be available for classification of some rice strains. Comparison of the nucleotide sequences of the Waxy gene between O. sativa and O. glaberrima showed that base substitutions have frequently occurred in a p-SINE1 member (p-SINE1-r1) and a transposable element Tnr1 also present in the Waxy gene, suggesting that these elements, which appear as repetitive sequences in the rice chromosome, tend to acquire base substitutions at a higher frequency than do unique sequences.
13266244
13271033
13272082
13279004
13280196
1328422	The charts of 100 patients with established diagnoses of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) provided the data base for a descriptive study of patients' exposure to herbicides. The study focused on place of residence and occupation during the year prior to diagnosis of GBM. Although subjects reported residences in 33 of the 75 counties in Arkansas, more than one-third of the sample came from just 3 counties in which rice, cotton or wood products are produced. These industries were reported as the occupations of almost one-third of the sample for whom occupations involved a risk of herbicide exposure. The findings of this study add to the epidemiological profile of those at risk for GBM and underscore the need for assessment of residence and occupation on a consistent basis when counseling patients and providing health education.
13288265
13288600
13290573
13290612
13309147
13310214
13318517
13320200
13321503
13321504
13321508
13322421
13323832
13331175
1333295	The commercially important Indica rice cultivar Oryza sativa cv. IR72 has been transformed using direct gene transfer to protoplasts. PEG-mediated transformation was done with two plasmid constructs containing either a CaMV 35S promoter/HPH chimaeric gene conferring resistance to hygromycin (Hg) or a CaMV 35S promoter/BAR chimaeric gene conferring resistance to a commercial herbicide (Basta) containing phosphinothricin (PPT). We have obtained so far 92 Hgr and 170 PPTr IR72 plants from protoplasts through selection. 31 Hgr and 70 PPTr plants are being grown in the greenhouse to maturity. Data from Southern analysis and enzyme assays proved that the transgene was stably integrated into the host genome and expressed. Transgenic plants showed complete resistance to high doses of the commercial formulations of PPT.
1334301	Japanese encephalitis (JE) remains endemo-epidemic in several countries in East, South-East and South Asia. The disease has been under control in Japan since the 1970s owing to mass immunization using mouse-brain-derived inactivated vaccine and to reduced vector mosquito populations. The vector density which was once reduced by wide spraying of insecticides in rice fields showed an increasing trend after the 1980s as a result of mosquito resistance. In the Republic of Korea, the number of JE cases showed a significant decrease after 1983 also because of mass immunization using mouse-brain-derived vaccine. On the other hand, large outbreaks of JE continued to occur in China, Viet Nam, Thailand, India, Nepal and Sri Lanka. In China, a hamster-kidney cell-derived vaccine was developed and used for human immunization. Besides human JE, the fatal outcome of equine JE is an economic problem in China. Current JE vaccine derived from mouse brain is highly purified and its safety and efficacy have been proved by field-tests as well as laboratory experiments. In spite of slight antigenic differences among JE virus isolates, JE vaccine produced by a classical Nakayama strain was effective in preventing overt JE in a field study in Thailand. The technology of mouse-brain-derived inactivated JE vaccine production was transferred from Japan to India, Thailand and Viet Nam. The production of JE vaccine in these countries is still on a pilot scale and insufficient for mass-immunization of susceptible target populations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
13345598
13345726
13346795
13347543
13348472
13349101
13350559
13350561
13350969
1335800	Races of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial blight of rice, interact with cultivars of rice in a gene-for-gene specific manner. Multiple DNA fragments of various sizes from all strains of X. o. pv. oryzae hybridized with avrBs3, an avirulence gene from Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria, in Southern blots; this suggests the presence of several homologs and possibly a gene family. A genomic library of a race 2 strain of X. o. pv. oryzae, which is avirulent on rice cultivars carrying resistance genes xa-5, Xa-7, and Xa-10, was constructed. Six library clones, which hybridized to avrBs3, altered the interaction phenotype with rice cultivars carrying either xa-5, Xa-7, or Xa-10 when present in a virulent race 6 strain. Two avirulence genes, avrXa7 and avrXa10, which correspond to resistance genes Xa-7 and Xa-10, respectively, were identified and partially characterized from the hybridizing clones. On the basis of transposon insertion mutagenesis, sequence homology, restriction mapping, and the presence of a repeated sequence, both genes are homologs of avirulence genes from dicot xanthomonad pathogens. Two BamHI fragments that are homologous to avrBs3 and correspond to avrXa7 and avrXa10 contain a different number of copies of a 102-bp direct repeat. The DNA sequence of avrXa10 is nearly identical to avrBs3. We suggest that avrXa7 and avrXa10 are members of an avirulence gene family from xanthomonads that control the elicitation of resistance in mono- and dicotyledonous plants.
13366423
13369021
13369369
13370166
1337747	The redox state of cytochrome alpha 3 during in situ respiration of leaves of 20-day-old rice seedlings was assessed by in vivo aerobic assay of nitrate reductase, after 1 min exposure to carbon monoxide. Different stress treatments like water and salt stresses, disintegration of leaf tissues and darkness modified the redox state of cytochrome c oxidase. The dark treatment altered the redox state of cytochrome oxidase from reduced to the oxidized state, as judged by its reaction with CO in CO-sensitive rice cultivar. The water and salt stresses as well as the disintegration of leaf tissue on the contrary altered cytochrome oxidase from the oxidized to its reduced state in CO-insensitive cultivars; probably by changing the cellular integrity, turgidity and structure of mitochondrial membrane, and also due to decreased mitochondrial energization.
1338213	To determine the clinical significance of the microscopic study of the synovial fluid (SF) sediment, 306 sediments were examined from 216 patients with the most frequently occurring acute and chronic arthropathies. The SF was obtained using a fine gauge needle. Microscopic rice bodies were seen in 53 (17.3%) of the samples studied. Forty-five (84.9%) of the samples in which rice bodies were observed were from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) (p < 0.001); 34.9% of the 129 RA samples were found to contain rice bodies. The specificity of finding rice bodies in RA was 95.5%. Most rice bodies were composed of partly or totally hyalinized fibrinous material; in their interior, mononuclear cells were predominantly observed--most of them macrophagic in appearance. With less frequency the rice bodies exhibited central areas of fibrosis. Our results suggest that microscopic rice bodies are fibrinous particles derived from the entrapping of cells in the dense fibrin network present in inflammatory SF.
1339378	Four alpha-amylase-encoding cDNA (alpha Amy-C) clones were isolated from a cDNA library derived from poly(A)+RNA of gibberellic acid (GA3)-treated rice aleurone layers. Nucleotide sequence analysis indicates that the four cDNAs were derived from different alpha Amy genes. Expression of the individual alpha Amy gene in germinating seeds and cultured suspension cells of rice was studied using gene-specific probes. In germinating seeds, expression of the alpha Amy genes is positively regulated by GA3 in a temporally coordinated but quantitatively distinct manner. In cultured suspension cells, in contrast, expression of the alpha Amy genes is negatively and differentially regulated by sugars present in the medium. In addition, one strong and one weak carbohydrate-starvation-responsive alpha Amy genes have been identified. Interactions between the promoter region (HS501) of a rice alpha Amy gene and GA3-inducible DNA binding proteins in rice aleurone cells were also studied. A DNA mobility-shift assay showed that the aleurone proteins interact with two specific DNA fragments within HS501. One fragment is located between nt -131 to -170 and contains two imperfect directly repeated pyrimidine elements and a putative GA3-response element. The other fragment is located between nt -92 to -130 that contains a putative enhancer sequence. The interactions between aleurone proteins and these two fragments are sequence-specific and GA-responsive.
13399102
13404443	A first experiment on malaria control in the interior of Borneo by spraying with residual insecticides is described. The work was carried out in the isolated, sparsely populated valleys of the Baram River and its tributary, the Tinjar, in northern Sarawak. The experimental area was divided into three parts: a DDT test area, where a 75% suspension of wettable powder was applied at the rate of 2 g of DDT per m(2) of surface; a BHC test area, where a 50% suspension of wettable powder was applied at the rate of 0.10 g of gamma isomer per m(2); and a check area.Entomological investigations made before the spraying operations were started showed that Anopheles leucosphyrus Dönitz, 1901 was the main malaria vector in both the test and the check areas. Out of a total of 7568 A. leucosphyrus dissected, 30 gland infections were detected-a sporozoite-rate of 0.40%. A. barbirostris was found to be a secondary vector throughout the experimental area.THE RESULTS OF INSECTICIDE SPRAYING WERE SATISFACTORY: in the DDT test area, the spleen-rate fell from 51.8% to 25.1%, and the parasite-rate from 35.6% to 1.6%, in 21 months, and a similar reduction in the rates was observed in the BHC test area. In the check area, the spleen- and parasite-rates rose during the period of observations. It is considered that if such a degree of control can be obtained in 21 months, complete eradication can be expected in the near future.Although BHC spraying proved effective, the fact that it has to be repeated every three months makes it impracticable in the interior of Sarawak, where communications are very poor and difficulties of transport very great. DDT spraying, which need only be done twice a year, is therefore to be preferred. The cost of the DDT operations-US$ 0.45 per person protected per year-is comparatively high, owing to the difficulty of communications and to the necessity for spraying not only the village "longhouses", but also the temporary shelters which the semi-nomadic people in the interior of Sarawak build each year in the rice-fields.
13408530
13412826
13413376
13416973
13421022
1342183	In order to increase the proteic content of rice meal, fermentation with Rhizopus oligosporus was performed. During fermentation, samples were taken at the times of 0,20,30,40,50,60,70 and 80 hours. These samples were oven dried and further analysed. The amino acid composition of rice meal had lysine and threonine the most limiting ones. After fermentation the lysine content increase and the more limiting were the sulfur amino acids methionine and cystine (76.04%), threonine (91.03%) and lysine (97,04%. With the aim of verifying the biological value of the protein a bioassay was carried out. The fermented rice meal presented a higher digestibility value and the net protein utilization for the fermented rice meal lower than for the non fermented one.
13422029
13424484
1342756	Summarizing the general characteristics of food consumption pattern and dietary status of the country's central urban region, the following are brought to focus: Metro Manila as compared to all urban and rural areas consumes less cereal grains but more sugars and fats and oils; consumes more of the high quality protein foods such as meat, poultry, eggs, milk and dried beans; and consumes less of fruits and vegetables. Availability and affordability of foods in the respective sectors could have affected to a large extent the magnitude of consumption differences. Although urban households had the advantage of a more varied and quantitatively higher food consumption, their nutrient intake was not really very different from rural households. Metro Manila still had a 13.7 percent calorie gap in its intake in 1987, and intake of ascorbic acid was notably lower than the rural sector. However, intake of thiamin and riboflavin as well as fat was appreciably higher in the metropolis. Briefly identifying the trends in food consumption with reference to six survey year periods from 1974 to 1987 (excluding 1984 and 1985), Metro Manila diet disclosed the following: increasing trend for sugars and syrups as well as dried beans, nuts and seeds and decreasing trend for cereal products, fruits and vegetables and condiments and others. There was a decrease in overall food consumption among Metro Manila households during the economic crisis that transpired in 1984 and 1985. However, there was a steady consumption of rice which was under price control, and a significant increase in the intake of some food items particularly green leafy and yellow vegetables which were among the cheapest food items available in Metro Manila markets. Some food adjustments were evidently resorted to during the period of economic dislocation showing the resiliency of the urban population. Metro Manila has been apparently drawing inordinately large amounts of the food supply from the rest of the country. There is therefore an "urban bias" of food supply to Metro Manila, that is, there is a much higher demand capacity for Metro Manila to draw food supply because of its higher income level and bigger population. The impact of this situation in terms of nutrition and food supply in the rural areas should be carefully examined so as not to put the rural areas in extreme disadvantage. FNRI nutrition surveys have shown that dietary energy inadequacy remains rampant in Metro Manila, while protein continues to be a marginal problem.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1342821	Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), also known as somatomedin-C, is an important mediator of growth regulation. Serum concentrations of IGF-I and proteoglycan synthesis rates in the tibial epiphysis, an estimate of the biological response to IGF-I in a target tissue, were compared in weanling Wistar rats fed ad libitum (group 1) and with 50% restriction (group 2) with the regional diet of São Paulo State (RDSPS--a mean diet consumed by low-income families with rice, beans, sugar, meat, milk, fruits and other vegetables) and in pair-fed animals fed with casein diets (groups 3 and 4). Data are reported as mean +/- SD for 8 rats in each group. Proteoglycan synthesis rates (cpm/mg) were significantly higher in rats fed with the RDSPS-based diet (groups 1 and 2: 210.8 +/- 58.8, 136.6 +/- 17.6) than in pair-fed animals fed with an 11% casein diet (groups 3 and 4: 62.9 +/- 11.6, 37.7 +/- 13.7) and in control animals fed ad libitum with a 20% casein diet (group 5: 58.1 +/- 22.7). Furthermore, these rates were higher in animals fed ad libitum than in those fed with the same diets but with 50% restriction. However, similar differences between groups 1 to 4 were not observed in serum concentrations (ng/100 microliters) of IGF-I (group 1: 44.1 +/- 7.1; group 2: 40.8 +/- 3.8; group 3: 46.0 +/- 3.6; group 4: 41.6 +/- 3.4, and group 5: 63.2 +/- 7.8). These results suggest that serum IGF-I levels are not reliable indicators of IGF-I status in this experimental model.
13432216
13436599
13440396
1344888	Isolated rice embryos were used to investigate the regulatory effects of endosperm extracts and pure sugars on the expression of alpha-amylase gene RAmy3D and a sucrose synthase gene homologous to the maize isozyme Ss2. The high-level expression of RAmy3D in the scutella of isolated embryos could be inhibited by a variety of sugars as well as endosperm extracts from germinated rice grains. Glucose, at a concentration of 250 mM, was most effective in repressing RAmy3D mRNA accumulation. Furthermore, this repression was reversible. Interestingly, RAmy3D repression was always accompanied by the induction of sucrose synthase gene expression. These results support a model in which the expression of alpha-amylase and sucrose synthase genes in the rice scutellum are counter-regulated by the influx of sugars from the endosperm.
1344903	An aflatoxin-specific, monoclonal antibody-based immunoaffinity chromatography method has been developed for the rapid isolation of aflatoxins from human foods. Aflatoxins were isolated by immunoaffinity chromatography from a variety of cooked foods, including maize, rice, millets, groundnut sauces, and leaf sauces, collected in The Gambia, West Africa. The aflatoxins were measured by direct fluorescence or high-pressure liquid chromatography. The highest levels were found for groundnut sauces, mean 162 ppb (range 18 to 943 ppb) for 18 positive samples, but aflatoxins were found in other foods; e.g., maize, mean 9.7 ppb (range 2 to 35 ppb) for nine positive samples. The food analysis results were used with records of the amounts of cooked food to estimate a mean daily intake for an individual of the order of 3.5 micrograms of aflatoxins per day. This approach for exposure assessment is considered in relation to other biomarkers of aflatoxin exposure using biological fluids.
1344947	Studies on seasonal prevalence and succession of mosquitoes in rice fields, revealed the dominance of Anopheles culicifacies and An. subpictus in newly transplanted fields during early months of rice cultivation, which was later replaced by the species like An. annularis, An. barbirostris, An. nigerrimus and An. tessellatus with the growth in plant height. Among culicines, except Cx. quinquefasciatus other species were prevalent during growing and later stages of the rice crop. Larval density was found inversely proportional to the height of plants, whereas species diversity maximized during growing phase due to equitable number of specimen among species.
13450161
1345215	There is considerable evidence that salt is an important cause of hypertension. Primitive societies who ingest little or no salt have no hypertension. Also when diets very low in salt such as the rice and fruit diet are given to hypertensive patients, the blood pressure often falls toward normal. Unfortunately, when diets only moderately low in sodium have been given only minor reductions in blood pressure occur. Salt-induced hypertension has been produced in both man and experimental animals. The basic cause of the hypertension is an inability of the kidney to excrete the increased salt. Hemodynamic changes then occur which raise the blood pressure and so excrete the excess salt by pressure diuresis. The ability to excrete salt at normal levels of blood pressure varies from one individual to another. Those who require a higher than normal blood pressure are said to be "salt-sensitive". Those who can excrete excess salt at normal levels of blood pressure are called "salt resistant". The difference may be due to an inherited defect in the kidney to excrete salt. In any event, salt sensitive hypertension is effectively controlled with the administration of diuretics.
13452757
13452758
1345443	In order to isolate aflatoxin-producing strains from agricultural products in the Youngnam district of Korea, rice, barley, unhulled barley, corn, soybean, Meju (soybean paste), peanut, and soil samples were collected from markets or homes. From the 347 samples, 280 strains of Aspergillus spp. were isolated. As a result of screening by thin layer chromatography (TLC), 29 strains showed fluorescent spot and four strains had the same Rf values as those of standard aflatoxins. The percentage of contamination of aflatoxin-producing strains was 1.4%. The four strains were classified as the Aspergillus flavus group by the examination of characteristics and morphology.
13455830
13466222
1347144	A short, highly repeated, interspersed DNA sequence from rice was characterized using a combination of techniques and genetically mapped to rice chromosomes by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. A consensus sequence (GGC)n, where n varies from 13-16, for the repeated sequence family was deduced from sequence analysis. Southern blot analysis, restriction mapping of repeat element-containing genomic clones, and DNA sequence analysis indicated that the repeated sequence is interspersed in the rice genome, and is heterogeneous and divergent. About 200,000 copies are present in the rice genome. Single copy sequences flanking the repeat element were used as RFLP markers to map individual repeat elements. Eleven such repeat elements were mapped to seven different chromosomes. The strategy for characterization of highly dispersed repeated DNA and its uses in genetic mapping, DNA fingerprinting, and evolutionary studies are discussed.
13477656
13481772
13481785
13482792
13490954
13491080
13512719
1351486	Tadpole shrimp (Triops spp.) are potential biological control agents against larval mosquitoes in temporary ponds and flood-irrigated fields. In some rice field situations, however, they may become pests that uproot and eat young rice plants. In cursory observations, it has been reported that tadpole shrimp eggs do not readily hatch on flooding when the soil or substrate containing eggs is moist before flooding. The relationship between drying (moisture content) of soil and tadpole shrimp hatch was determined in studies conducted in mesocosms at the University of California Aquatic and Vector Control Research facilities at Riverside and at Oasis in the Coachella Valley of southern California. In laboratory hatching trials, an increase in hatch of Triops longicaudatus (LeConte) with declining soil moisture content was demonstrated (t = 8.4, P less than 0.001; r2 = 0.76). In field trials in mesocosms at Riverside, egg hatch increased with increased drying period and declining soil moisture content (G = 29.8, P less than 0.01). No hatch of eggs occurred after 3 d of drying, when soil moisture content was high, but a high level of hatching occurred after 7 and 14 d of drying, when soil moisture declined to low levels. At Oasis, soil moisture did not decrease with drying time because of porous soil and capillary action of water from adjacent flooded mesocosms and thick vegetation covering the pond bottoms. Therefore, hatch rates at Oasis were not associated with the length of the drying period (G = 35, P greater than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
13517692
13523097
13523266
13527859
13528149
13535540
13538856
13543527
1354928	A longitudinal study, including entomological, parasitological, immunological and clinical data, was carried out in a rice field and a savanna village in Burkina Faso. In this study, the authors followed the evolution of several parasitological parameters in order to compare the level of immunoprotection in children of these two areas. In particular, the percentages of recently 'infected' or 'recovered' children were calculated, during the interval separating two consecutive surveys. In both areas, parasite densities quickly increased in children from 0 to 14 years old, immediately after the beginning of the transmission period. In savanna, during the rainy season (May-October), parasite densities decreased and the proportion of recently 'recovered' children from 0 to 4 years old (becoming parasitologically negative between two consecutive surveys) was very low. On the other hand, parasite densities decreased and the recovery rate was higher in children from 10 to 14 years old before the end of the rainy season, while the transmission was going on. In the rice field area, Plasmodium falciparum densities decreased only at the end of the transmission period (December) and had the same levels as those found in savanna, in spite of a lower inoculation rate. The second peak of transmission seemed neither to increase the proportion of recovered children, nor to boost the immunoprotection of these children.
13560044
1356266	In situ hybridization, a powerful tool for the molecular cytogeneticist, can be used to physically map repetitive, low-copy, and unique DNA sequences in plant chromosomes. With the availability of a recombination map in Oryza sativa L. and an improved in situ hybridization technique, this study was designed to establish the relationship between the genetic and physical distances of the rice restriction fragment length polymorphism map. Analysis indicated that considerable variation can exist between genetic and physical maps. A 183-centimorgan linkage map for chromosome 2 covered less than 50% of the chromosome and did not include the centromere, whereas a 91-centimorgan linkage map for chromosome 1 covered approximately 80% of the chromosome. The results indicated that there are potential "hot" and "cold" spots of recombination and polymorphisms in rice, which involve both genes and restriction fragment length polymorphisms.
13562889
13564613
13565098
13572060
13572227
13572752
1357293
13573499
13579282
13585073	Among the measures used in attempts to control the snail host of S. japonicum in Leyte Province, Philippines, where the terrain is unsuited to the application of molluscicides, have been removal of vegetation in and around infested streams, drainage of water-logged areas, filling low-lying areas with earth or flooding them, and digging fishponds in sluggish streams. Each of these measures is described in detail.Experiments carried out in rice-fields, which harbour great numbers of snails, have shown that improvements in rice-growing methods will not only markedly reduce the snail population but also double the rice yield.A campaign to promote the use of pit latrines encountered the serious difficulty that such latrines were not acceptable to the people. However, there is evidence that use of pit latrines does bring about a reduction in snail infection rates.No single control measure is recommended for all snail habitats, the choice of method depending on local circumstances; in many areas a combination of methods proved advantageous. It is felt that mass treatment of infected persons would not be fully effective until transmission is more thoroughly under control.
13591100
13594268
1359648	A reconnaissance survey for the presence of lymphatic filariasis is made in 41 chiefdoms of north east Ghana. Four disease levels are identified culminating in hyperendemic disease foci associated with two Government-introduced rice irrigation projects. Attention is also drawn to the disease effects of small village dams. Multiple concurrent infections are noted. Within the most stricken irrigation villages, aspects of concealment, stigma and marriage are considered. Failure to control lymphatic filariasis has led to hospital avoidance and neglect of the disease jointly by patients, physicians and nurses. Culpability rests with the irrigation authority and Government health services. An outline is given of possible measures for disease control. A multisectoral policy of 'prevention before development' is strongly advocated.
1360299	An intoxication episode resulting from rice-bran oil (Yu-Cheng) contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) occurred in Taiwan from 1978 to 1979. After that episode, the authors found 15 Yu-Cheng children who were born to intoxicated mothers after their documented consumption of PCB-contaminated oil; these children had older siblings, born before PCB exposure, without prenatal PCB exposure. The cognitive development of these Yu-Cheng children and the youngest of their elder siblings were assessed annually from 1985 to 1990 using the Chinese version of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Revised Version (WISC-R) for those over six years of age. Compared with their elder siblings, the Yu-Cheng children scored significantly lower (p < 0.05) on the verbal intelligence quotient, by 6.8-16.1 points; on performance IQ by 10.2-18.4 points; and on full-scale IQ by 8.9-18.5 points, during the six measurements performed from 1985 to 1990. The differences in WISC-R IQ scores between the two groups have remained unchanged during these six years of follow-up.
13602998
13603500
13607939
13607947
1361940	The microbial control of Anopheles gambiae and other mosquitoes with a granular formulation of Bacillus sphaericus (Vectolex) was evaluated in rice fields and swamps, located around the suburban region of Kingabwa-village in Kinshasa, Zaíre. Ten treatment cycles with 15-day intervals were carried out with the same application rate, 10 kg/ha, during the dry season (May to September 1991). The treatments reduced larval populations of An. gambiae by 98% after 48 h, but repetitive applications were required every 15 days to maintain control. The persistence of B. sphaericus spores was more apparent in rice fields than in swamps. A significant reduction in nuisance biting by Culex quinquefasciatus and Mansonia uniformis was observed. For An. gambiae, a decrease of 13.6% in human biting was noted during the post-treatment period. The entomological inoculation rate was reduced from 0.238 to 0.143. The efficacy of B. sphaericus does not appear to offer outstanding potential for control of An. gambiae in rice fields and swamps and seems to be limited due to different factors tied to ecology and natural conditions in the fields.
1362973	Nearly isogenic lines (NILs) of rice (Oryza sativa) differing at a locus conferring resistance to the pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae were surveyed with 123 DNA markers and 985 random primers using restriction fragment length plymorphism (RFLP) and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis. One chromosome 11 marker (RG103) detected polymorphism between the NILs that cosegregated with Xa21. All other chromosome 11 DNA markers tested were monomorphic between the NILs, localizing the Xa21 introgressed region to an 8.3 cM interval on chromosome 11. Furthermore, we identified two polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products (RAPD2148 and RAPD818) that detected polymorphisms between the NILs. Genomic sequences hybridizing with RAPD818, RAPD248 and RG103 were duplicated specifically in the Xa21 NIL. All three markers cosegregated with the resistance locus, Xa21, in a F2 population of 386 progeny. Based on the frequency with which we recovered polymorphic Xa21-linked markers, we estimated the physical size of the introgressed region to be approximately 800 kb. This estimation was supported by physical mapping (using pulsed field gel electrophoresis) of the sequences hybridizing with the three Xa21-linked DNA markers. The results showed that the three Xa21-linked markers are physically close to each other, with one copy of the RAPD818 sequences located within 60 kb of RAPD248 and the other copy within 270 kb of RG103. None of the enzymes tested generated a DNA fragment that hybridized with all three of the markers indicating that the introgressed region containing the resistance locus Xa21 is probably larger than 270 kb.
1363184
1363521	Rice (Oryza sativa L. var. Nipponbare) suspension callus was exposed to gravity stress at 450,000 g for 2 hours, after which poly(A)+RNA was isolated and a cDNA library was constructed. Three different gravity specific cDNAs, namely, GSC 128, GSC 233 and GSC 381 of 0.67, 0.60 and 0.68 kilobase pairs and transcripts of 1.9, 1.6 and 2.0 kb, respectively, were isolated by differential screening and Northern hybridization. The maximum level of transcript was achieved after 4 hours of exposure to gravity at 450,000 g for GSC 128, 2 hours for GSC 233 and 8 hours for GSC 381 followed by a gradual decrease to undetectable levels with the extension of gravitation time. Callus (GSC 128), shoot and callus (GSC 381) and root and callus (GSC 233) specific expression of transcripts was identified. Although the protection of callus by treatment with ABA, kinetin and sucrose extended the period of expression of mRNA in suspension callus after gravity exposure, the expression of gravity-inducible mRNA was exclusively regulated by the degree of callus viability or survival after the stress. In addition, we demonstrated that the level of GSC 381 transcript was markedly increased by exposing the cell to periodical gravity stress, suggesting that this mRNA is expressed and translated into special proteins which are closely related to the survival of the cell against gravity stress. The sequence of GSC 233 and GSC 381, consisting of 417 and 531 base pairs of the longest open reading frames, encode polypeptides with calculated molecular weights of 15.29 and 19.47 kDa, respectively. A sequence homology search against a data bank revealed that GSC 233 and GSC 381 differed from other stress inducible genes in terms of the coding sequence and expression characteristics.
1363628	In order to determine population dynamics of Anopheles sinensis, a survey based on average number of female mosquitoes per trap-night was carried out during the period of 5 years from 1987 to 1991. A. sinensis first appeared between the 2nd and 20th April, and were trapped in large number between the 5th and 12th July. The number of trapped mosquitoes began to decrease from mid-August, and a few were collected until mid-November, each year. The average number of A. sinensis in July was 542.6 per trap-night in 1987, but in 1989 increased abruptly to 1,331.4, and then decreased to considerably lower levels, 271.9 in 1990 and 372.1 in 1991. The nocturnal activity of A. sinensis to attack humans was found to become active in the early night, and it was gradually decreasing at mid-night, however, then slightly increasing toward dawn. The immature stage of A. sinensis in the rice paddies was first found in the correlation pattern with peak adult densities in early July. The highest larval density of A. sinensis in the study area was 21,226 x 10(3) in early July 1990. The larval A. sinensis showed high resistance level and resistance ratios against 3 kinds of organo-phosphorous compounds, diazinon, malathion, and fenitrothion, but low resistance against fenthion. The present results indicated that the population density of A. sinensis in Kyongbuk area is decreasing over the five-year from 1987 to 1991.
13641775
13657129
13661749
13662551
13677067	The incorporation of diquat into cultures of Nostoc muscorum and Cylindrospermum sp. Proved to be highly toxic. The range of various concentrations employed varies from 1 microgram/ml 15 micrograms/ml. Relatively higher does (above 5 micrograms/ml) reduced the chlorophyll a content and a progressive decrease in algal growth and ultimately complete lysis of the cells was recorded with the increasing level of the herbicide. A concentration of 15 micrograms/ml has been found to be algicidal for both the test organism.
13677377	Prolonged efficacy of a combination of bacteria (Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis [Bti] and copepods (Mesocyclops aspericornis) in controlling immature forms of Aedes aegypti in peridomestic water containers was achieved by adding various products from local villages as supplementary food for copepods. In all experiments, 100 first-instar larvae were added into the breeding containers every day for eight weeks. Combinations of biological control agents and each local supplementary food were applied once at the beginning of the experiment. At the end of the experiment, the average number of mosquito larvae in containers with a combination of copepods and Bti with one gram of rice grain had decreased to only 0.5% of that with no control agent. In comparison, the average numbers of mosquito larvae in containers with Bti only, or copepods only, were approximately 10% and 33% of those in containers with no control agents, respectively. In addition, the number of copepods in containers with mosquito larvae and supplementary food was at least three times higher than those with mosquito larvae alone.
13677465	T-DNA is commonly used for delivery of foreign genes and as an insertional mutagen. Although ample information exists regarding T-DNA organization in dicotyledonous plants, little is known about the monocot rice. Here, we investigated the structure of T-DNA in a large number of transgenic rice plants. Analysis of the T-DNA borders revealed that more than half of the right ends were at the cleavage site, whereas the left ends were not conserved and were deleted up to 180 bp from the left border (LB) cleavage site. Three types of junctions were found between T-DNA and genomic DNA. In the first, up to seven nucleotide overlaps were present. The frequency of this type was much higher in the LB region than at the right border (RB). In the second type, which was more frequent in RB, the link was direct, without any overlaps or filler DNA. Finally, the third type showed filler DNA between T-DNA and the plant sequences. Out of 171 samples examined, 77 carried the vector backbone sequence, with the majority caused by the failure of T-strand termination at LB. However, a significant portion also resulted from co-integration of T-DNA and the vector backbone to a single locus. Most linkages between T-DNA and the vector backbone were formed between two 3' ends or two 5' ends of the transferred DNAs. The 3' ends were mostly linked through 3-6 bp of the complementing sequence, whereas the 5' ends were linked through either precise junctions or imprecise junctions with filler DNA.
13677471	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are growth-promoting natural substances required for normal plant growth and development. To understand the molecular mechanism of BR action, a cDNA microarray containing 1265 rice genes was analyzed for expression differences in rice lamina joint treated with brassinolide (BL). A novel BL-enhanced gene, designated OsBLE2, was identified and cloned. The full-length cDNA is 3243 bp long, encoding a predicted polypeptide of 761 amino acid residues and nine possible transmembrane regions. OsBLE2 expression was most responsive to BL in the lamina joint and leaf sheath in rice seedlings. Besides, auxin and gibberellins also increased its expression. OsBLE2 expressed more, as revealed by in situ hybridization, in vascular bundles and root primordia, where the cells are actively undergoing division, elongation, and differentiation. Transgenic rice expressing antisense OsBLE2 exhibits various degrees of repressed growth. BL could not enhance its expression in transgenic rice expressing antisense BRI1, a BR receptor, indicating that BR signaling to the enhanced expression of OsBLE2 is through BRI1 . BL effect in the d1 mutant rice was much weaker than that in its wild-type control, indicating that heterotrimeric G protein may be a component of BRs signaling. These results suggest that OsBLE2 is involved in BL-regulated growth and development processes in rice.
13677476	In a previous study, we mapped replication origin regions of the plastid DNA around the 3' end of the 23S rRNA gene in rice suspension-cultured cells. Here, we examined initiation of the plastid DNA replication in different rice cells by two-dimensional agarose gel electrophoresis. We show for the first time, to our knowledge, that the replication origin region of the plastid DNA differs among cultured cells, coleoptiles and mature leaves. In addition, digestion of the replication intermediates from the rice cultured cells with mung bean nuclease, a single-strand-specific nuclease, revealed that both two single strands of the double-stranded parental DNA were simultaneously replicated in the origin region. This was further confirmed by two-dimensional agarose gel analysis with single-stranded RNA probes. Thus, the mode of plastid DNA replication presented here differs from the unidirectional replication started by forming displacement loops (D-loops), in which the two D-loops on the opposite strands expand toward each other and only one parental strand serves as a template.
13678904
13679986	The rice gene Xa21 represents a unique class of plant disease resistance (R) genes with distinct protein structure and broad-spectrum specificity; few sequences or genes of this class have been cloned and characterized in other plant species. Degenerate primers were designed from the conserved motifs in the kinase domains of Xa21 and tomato Pto, and used in PCR amplification to identify this class of resistance gene candidate (RGC) sequences from citrus for future evaluation of possible association with citrus canker resistance. Twenty-nine RGC sequences highly similar to the kinase domain of Xa21 (55%-60% amino-acid identity) were cloned and characterized. To facilitate recovery of full-length gene structures and to overcome RGC mapping limitations, large-insert genomic clones (BACs) were identified, fingerprinted and assembled into contigs. Southern hybridization revealed the presence of 1-3 copies of receptor-like kinase sequences (i.e., clustering) in each BAC. Some of these sequences were sampled by PCR amplification and direct sequencing. Twenty-three sequences were thus obtained and classified into five groups and eight subgroups, which indicates the possibility of enhancing RGC sequence diversity from BACs. A primer-walking strategy was employed to derive full-length gene structures from two BAC clones; both sequences 17o6RLK and 26m19RLK contained all the features of the rice Xa21 protein, including a signal peptide, the same number of leucine-rich-repeats, and transmembrane and kinase domains. These results demonstrate that PCR amplification with appropriately designed degenerate primers is an efficient approach for cloning receptor-like kinase class RGCs. Utilization of BAC clones can facilitate this approach in multiple ways by improving sequence diversity, providing full-length genes, and assisting in understanding gene structures and distribution.
1368240	A purification procedure for an extracellular alpha-amylase from Streptomyces rimosus, oxytetracycline-producing strain, is described. The enzyme obtained was shown to be an acidic (pI 4.75) monomer with a relative molecular mass (M(r)) of 43,000, containing three cysteines involved in the catalytic activity of the enzyme. Its amino-terminal part has 57-67% homology with amylases from other Streptomyces species. S. rimosus alpha-amylase is sensitive to higher temperatures, and partially stabilized by Ca2+ ions. It hydrolyses starch (optimum at pH 5.0-6.0) in an endohydrolase manner giving rise to maltotriose, maltotetraose and higher oligosaccharides. Starch granules, except those from rice, were not significantly affected by the isolated alpha-amylase.
1368338
1368342	A gene, frxC, which is unique to the chloroplast genome of the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha, has sequence similarity to nifH, the product of which is an iron protein of a nitrogenase. Although frxC is expressed to produce a protein in liverwort chloroplasts, its function is not known. Using a probe of liverwort chloroplast DNA, a 10.1-kb region containing a gene cluster consisting of open reading frames (ORF278-frxC-ORF469-ORF248) was isolated from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC6803. In this region, frxC and ORF469 showed sequence similarities to liverwort chloroplast frxC (83%) and immediately downstream ORF465 (74%), respectively. Synechocystis frxC showed 31% amino acid sequence identity with nifH1 from Clostridium pasteurianum. Additionally, Synechocystis ORF469 showed a sequence similarity (19% identity) to C. pasteurianum nifK product, which is the beta subunit of a molybdenum-iron protein of a nitrogenase complex. Conservation of the gene arrangement between liverwort and Synechocystis suggests that the liverwort chloroplast frxC-ORF465 cluster may have evolved from an ancestor common to Synechocystis, and that these two genes may have been transferred to the nuclear genome in tobacco and rice during evolution.
1368510	Rice-straw treated with 5% ammonia water was hydrolyzed with the beta-xylanase of Streptomyces sp. E-86, and four kinds of hetero-oligosaccharides, two arabinoxylo- and two glucuronoxylo-oligosaccharides, were isolated from the hydrolysate by charcoal column, gel filtration, ion-exchange, and aminopropyl silica column chromatographies. The structures of the oligosaccharides were identified as 3(2)-alpha-L-arabinofuranosyl-xylobiose, 3(2)-alpha-L-arabinofuranosylxylotriose, 2(3)-4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucuronosylxylotriose, and 2(3)-alpha-D-glucuronosylxylotriose by the analysis of component sugar, partial acid hydrolysis, methylation analysis etc. Based on the structures of above oligosaccharides, the structure of rice-straw arabinoglucuronoxylan and the specificity of the xylanase toward the xylan are discussed.
1368603	The glucoamylase enzyme (GAase) gene from Aspergillus shirousami was cloned and sequenced from genomic and cDNA libraries. The genomic gene was located in the 5.4 kb EcoRI fragment. The deduced amino acid sequence of GAase contained 639 amino acid residues with a relative molecular mass of approximately 68,000 daltons (non-glycosylated form). The genomic gene of A. shirousami GAase was introduced into Aspergillus oryzae. These transformants had increased GAase and raw starch degradation (RSD) activity in culture media and in rice-koji extracts. Analysis by Southern, Northern, SDS-PAGE, and Western blot techniques confirmed the foreign gene was correctly transcribed, translated, and expressed in A. oryzae.
1368633
1368656
1368754	Four peroxidase components, named RP-2, 4, 6, and 7, were isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.) green leaves. Isoelectric focusing indicated that each preparation was homogeneous. The molecular weights of RP-2, 4, 6, and 7 estimated by SDS-PAGE were 48,000, 48,000, 40,000, and 39,500, and their isoelectric points were 5.4, 8.1, 9.3, and 9.2, respectively. The activity of every preparation was maximum around pH 5.0. Antisera against these purified enzymes were raised in rabbits. Ouchterlony double diffusion tests with these antisera suggested that RP-6 and 7 were immunochemically identical and RP-2 and 4 were identical in parts and that RP-6 and 7 were quite different from RP-2 and 4. Analysis of the N-terminal amino acid sequences also showed that these peroxidase components were classified into two groups. The polymerase chain reaction showed that RP-2 and/or RP-4 contained an active central region, which is homologous to other plant peroxidases.
1368846
1368858	The globulin of the seed endosperms of rice has an isoelectric point of 6.4 and a M(r) of 26,000. There is one intra-disulphide bond, but no N-linked oligosaccharide chain. The amino acid sequence of the N-terminal and internal regions of the globulin was determined and found to be homologous with that of glutenin, the storage protein in the seed endosperms of wheat. Rice globulin and wheat glutenin were rich in glycine, and glutamic acid or glutamine, and in addition, wheat glutenin cross-reacted with antibody raised against rice globulin. These results suggest that rice seed globulin represents a protein similar to wheat seed glutenin.
13691946
13705030
13705031
13718731
13725
13729210
13731972
13734156
13739465
1374710	The light-independent pathway of chlorophyll synthesis which occurs in some lower plants and algae is still largely unknown. We have characterized a chloroplast mutant, H13, of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii which is unable to synthesize chlorophyll in the dark and is also photosystem I deficient. The mutant has a 2.8 kb deletion as well as other rearrangements of its chloroplast genome. By performing particle gun mediated chloroplast transformation of H13 with defined wild-type chloroplast DNA fragments, we have identified a new chloroplast gene, chlN, coding for a 545 amino acid protein which is involved in the light-independent accumulation of chlorophyll, probably at the step of reduction of protochlorophyllide to chlorophyllide. The chlN gene is also found in the chloroplast genomes of liverwort and pine, but is absent from the chloroplast genomes of tobacco and rice.
13750639
1375314	The alpha-amylase gene is known to be regulated by the plant hormone gibberellin (GA) in cereal aleurone cells. The accumulation of the mRNA corresponding to a rice high pI alpha-amylase gene, OSamy-c, was stimulated 20-fold by exogenous GA3 in half-seeds lacking embryos. Regulatory regions in the promoter of this high pI sub-family were analyzed. The OSamy-c 5' flanking sequence, spanning positions -231 to +29, was fused upstream of the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene coding region. The delivery of this plasmid into rice aleurone cells by the biolistic method resulted in a GA-stimulated synthesis of GUS. Gel retardation assays were performed to study protein-DNA interactions between putative regulatory sequences of OSamy-c and partially purified rice seed extracts. We identified multiple seed-specific protein factors that bind to proximal regions of the OSamy-c promoter between positions -231 and -162. Five different proteins were distinguished based on competitive binding studies. Three protein binding regions were located by footprinting analyses, one of which is located in the conserved sequence also found upstream of other GA-inducible genes. Two protein factors in rice aleurone cells that interact with the putative regulatory sequence do not require GA induction.
13755266
13755268
1376283	A cDNA clone of rice major allergenic protein (RAP) was isolated from a cDNA library of maturing rice seeds. The cDNA had an open reading frame (486 nucleotides) which coded a 162 amino acid residue polypeptide comprising a 27-residue signal peptide and a 135-residue mature protein of M(r) 14,764. The deduced amino acid sequence of RAP showed a considerable similarity to barley trypsin inhibitor [1983, J. Biol. Chem. 258, 7998-8003] and wheat alpha-amylase inhibitor [1981, Phytochemistry 20, 1781-1784].
1376401	Using probes obtained by PCR amplification, we have isolated two cognate rice cDNAs (cdc2Os-1 and cdc2Os-2) encoding structural homologues of the cdc2+/CDC28 (cdc2) protein kinase from a cDNA library prepared from cultured rice cells. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of cdc2Os-1 and cdc2Os-2 showed that they are 83% identical. They are 62% identical to CDC28 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and much more similar to the yeast and mammalian p34cdc2 kinases than to rice R2, a cdc2-related kinase isolated previously by screening the same rice cDNA library with a different oligonucleotide probe. Southern blot analysis indicated that the three rice clones (cdc2Os-1, cdc2Os-2 and R2) are derived from distinct genes and are each found in a single copy per rice haploid genome. RNA blot analysis revealed that these genes are expressed in proliferating rice cells and in young rice seedlings. cdc2Os-1 could complement a temperature-sensitive yeast mutant of cdc28. However, despite the similarity in structure, both cdc2Os-2 and R2 were unable to complement the same mutant. Thus, the present results demonstrate the presence of structurally related, but functionally distinct cognates of the cdc2 cell cycle kinase in rice.
1376404	Three families of retrotransposons of rice (Tos1, Tos2, and Tos3) were isolated by using a method based on the sequence conservation of the primer binding site for reverse transcription. This method should be generally applicable for cloning retrotransposon of other plants. One retrotransposon, Tos3-1, was studied in detail. Tos3-1 is 5.2 kb long, has structures common to retrotransposons, such as long terminal repeats (LTR), a primer binding site complementary to the initiator tRNA, a polypurine tract, and generates target sequence duplications flanking the inserted element. Southern blotting analysis showed that sequences homologous to Tos1, 2 and 3 are found in wild rice species as well as in cultivated rice species, but not in maize and tobacco. The copy number and genomic location of the families vary in different strains of one species of wild rice, suggesting that these elements may still be active. Retrotransposons were also screened for by amplification of the reverse transcriptase coding region using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). At least two types of copia-like elements (Tos4 and Tos5) were found. The total copy number of retrotransposons in the rice genome was estimated to be about 1000. These results suggest that, as in Drosophila, retrotransposons are the major transposon class in rice.
13765772
13766125
13766126
1376640	A method has been developed to isolate pure preparations of nuclei in high yield from commercially available viable rice embryos (germ), employing extraction with buffer solution containing glycerol (without detergent) and polyamine, followed by centrifugation on a 30% Percoll cushion. The intactness of the isolated nuclei was confirmed by light microscopy as well as electron microscopy. The protein profiles of both whole nuclei and nuclear extracts obtained by SDS-PAGE, organellar marker enzyme activities, DNA and RNA analyses, and in vitro RNA synthesis, all indicate that the highly purified nuclei are isolated from rice embryos.
13768232
13771485
13774856
13775406
13776178
13779240
1377969
13781089
13785200
13789689
13792952
13797481
13798211
13799948
13804232
13804327
13809012
13809474
13811583
13822308
13831159
13832419
13841151
1384620	The purpose of this study was to determine the dietary essentiality of lithium (Li) in rats. In three experiments, two types of diets were fed during growth, reproduction, and lactation. In the first experiment, dams were maintained on a corn-based diet containing 2 ng or 500 ng (controls) Li/g through five successive periods of pregnancy and lactation. The offspring of dams fed the low-Li diet had significantly lower weaning weights (p = 0.011), and the percent weaned was lower (p = 0.094) than that of controls. In the second experiment, rats were maintained through three generations on a rice-based diet containing 0.6 ng Li/g, or the control (500 ng/g) diet. There was a significant effect of Li level on litter size (p = 0.017) and litter wt at birth (p = 0.006) in the third generation. The overall effect through three generations on litter wt at birth approaches statistical significance (p = 0.086). In the third experiment, third-generation rats were continued on the respective rice-based diets with three levels of dietary sodium, the normal level, one-half, and four times that level. The litter size and birth wt were significantly lower (p = 0.0030 and 0.0038, respectively) among the low-Li dams that consumed the normal and high-sodium levels compared to those that consumed the low-sodium diets. The interaction of Li and sodium as regards litter wt at birth approached significance (p = 0.083). Various tissues of the rats in the third experiment were analyzed for Li. It seems likely that Li exerts an essential nutrient role for the rat.
13847804
13860716
1386537	Using a fragment of the maize sucrose synthase gene Sh-1 as probe, the rice genome was shown to contain at least three genes encoding sucrose synthase. One of these genes was isolated from a genomic library, and its full sequence, including 1.7 kb of 5' flanking sequence and 0.9 kb of 3' flanking sequence, is reported. The new rice gene, designated RSs1, is highly homologous to maize Sh-1 (approx. 94% identity in derived amino acid sequence), and contains an identical intron-exon structure (16 exons and 15 introns). Both RSs1 and maize Sh-1 show similar sequence homologies to a second rice sucrose synthase gene described recently (designated RSs2, Yu et al. (1992) Plant Mol Biol 18: 139-142), although both the rice genes predict an extra 6 amino acids at the C-terminus of the protein when compared to the maize gene. The RSs1 5' flanking sequence contains a number of promoter-like sequences, including putative protein-binding regions similar to maize zein genes.
13871793
13875256
13875516
1387558
1387559	Sorghum mitochondrial atp6 occurs as one copy in the line Tx398 and as two copies in IS1112C. In IS1112C a repeated sequence diverged within the atp6 open reading frames. The two open reading frames (1137 bp, atp6-1; 1002 bp, atp6-2) share an identical conserved region of 756 bp but are flanked 5' by divergent extensions of 246 (atp6-1) or 381 bp (atp6-2). Tx398 carried only atp6-2. The breakpoint of the repeated sequence of the conserved core region corresponds to the amino acid sequence Ser-Pro-Leu-Asp, which is the amino terminus of the proteolytically processed yeast ATP6. The 5' extensions of atp6-1 and atp6-2 were similar to those of rice and maize, respectively. Each open reading is transcribed, however nuclear background influenced transcriptional patterns of atp6-2 in IS1112C.
13877889
13877890
1388002	Breath hydrogen tests were performed after a rice meal (3 g of cooked rice/kg of body weight, equivalent to 1 g of carbohydrate/kg of body weight) on 256 village children (age range 1-59 months) who were known hydrogen (H2) producers. Anthropometric measurements were made every three months and growth rates were calculated. A breath H2 excretion pattern that suggested small bowel bacterial overgrowth (SBBO), which was recognized as a transient maximum level of 10 ppm or more at 20-, 40-, or 60-min breath samples following the rice meal, was present in 53 (20.7%) children, and was more frequent in children 36-47 and 48-59 months old. This breath H2 excretion pattern was detected in 48 (33.3%) of 144 children who were rice malabsorbers (greater than 10 ppm H2 above baseline values in one of the breath samples taken between 90 and 240 min), and in only five (4.5%) of 112 rice absorbers. Children who had SBBO had a high relative risk (10.7) of being rice malabsorbers. Rice malabsorbers have a high relative risk (59.7) of having faltered growth, accompanied by a large etiologic fraction (94%). This same risk (6.68) and an etiologic fraction of 62% exist in children with untreated SBBO. These findings emphasize the need for interventions aimed at reducing the prevalence of SBBO or similar conditions as detected by the breath H2 excretion pattern to prevent rice malabsorption and growth faltering.
13887444	A number of plants indigenous to California can cause contact dermatitis similar to that caused by poison oak-philodendron, oleander, fig family, castor bean, chrysanthemum family, Chinese rice paper plant and several others. Patch testing can be used to prove a suspected diagnosis. In some occupations dermatitis from one or another of these agents is more or less common.
13890187
13897123
13901352
13907652
13907653
13912424
1391776	A full-length cDNA (pS 18) encoding the 16 kDa rice prolamin composed of 158 amino acids was sequenced. Analysis of N-terminal amino acid sequence of a major rice prolamin indicated that an 18 amino acid signal peptide was removed from 16 kDa precursor prolamin to form the 14 kDa prolamin during seed development. Synthesis of the 16 kDa precursor prolamin began around 8 days after flowering (DAF), increased remarkably at 8-11 DAF and gradually reached maximum levels with the maturation of rice seeds.
13919756
1392032	A total of 493 male inpatients were subjects in a study of the dietary intake (food frequency) when they were elementary school age and at the time of marriage by a long-term recall method. In order to examine the reliability of the recalled dietary data, 21 food items were compared with results of the National Nutrition Survey for the same time period. Food intake by the long-term recall method, especially meats, egg, milk and rice correlated well with the results of the National Nutrition Survey. From these results it appears that long-term recall of dietary intake frequency data averages are similar to the results of the National Survey data. Therefore the long-term recall method reflects the dietary practices of that era, and keeping in mind its limitations, its use as a means of revealing the dietary practices of a population is suggested.
1392595	The chloroplast psbD-psbC genes encode D2 and cp43, a reaction center protein and chlorophyll-binding antenna protein of photosystem II, respectively. We have previously shown that differential accumulation of light-induced psbD-psbC mRNAs in barley chloroplasts is due to transcription from a blue light-responsive promoter (LRP). It is hypothesized that the light-induced mRNAs help to maintain levels of the D2 polypeptide, which is photodamaged and degraded in illuminated plants. To determine if light-induced accumulation of psbD-psbC mRNAs was a conserved phenomenon in chloroplasts, the expression of psbD-psbC operons from five cereals (barley, wheat, rice, maize, and sorghum) and three dicot (tobacco, spinach, and pea) species was examined. Cereal and dicot psbD-psbC operons differ due to several DNA rearrangements that moved psbK-psbI proximal to psbD-psbC, allowing cotranscription of these genes and production of several unique transcripts in cereals. Despite differences in the structure and expression of the cereal and dicot psbD-psbC operons, the accumulation of light-induced psbD-psbC mRNAs was conserved in all species studied. An unusual feature of the light-induced mRNAs was the occurrence of 5' end microheterogeneity. The multiple 5' termini were mapped to several consecutive nucleotides (8 to 25 bp) within a highly conserved (61%) DNA region that represents the transcription initiation site for the mRNAs in barley and tobacco. The novel LRP differs in sequence from typical plastid promoters that have prokaryotic "-10" and "-35" elements and is centered 570 bp (cereals), 900 bp (tobacco, spinach), or 1100 bp (pea) upstream from the psbD translational start codon. We propose that physiological and gene regulatory demands of the chloroplast act as constraints that preserved the linkage of the LRP with psbD despite DNA inversions involving the psbD upstream region.
1392597	Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase plays a key role in photosynthetic carbon fixation in higher plants. The small subunit of this chloroplast enzyme (rbcS), encoded by a family of nuclear genes, is regulated at the transcriptional level by light. Promoter analyses have previously identified the box II sequence as a cis element critical for the light-regulated expression of rbcS genes. Nuclear factor GT-1 binds specifically to this element and is one of the plant nuclear factors that has been detected and studied in great detail. Here we describe the cloning and characterization of a tobacco cDNA encoding a protein, designated B2F (Box II Factor), with similar binding specificity and mobility in gel retardation assays as nuclear GT-1. Steady state levels of mRNA encoding B2F do not appear to be regulated by light; this is consistent with the previous observation that nuclear GT-1 activity is present in extracts from both light-grown and dark-adapted plants. Sequence comparison with another plant trans-acting factor, GT-2, which binds to a GT-like element in the rice phytochrome promoter, shows striking homology in three putative alpha-helices that may be involved in DNA binding.
1392598	The sequence element of box II (GTGTGGTTAATATG) is a regulatory component of a light-responsive element present within the upstream region of pea rbcS-3A. The nuclear protein GT-1 was defined previously as a DNA binding activity that interacts with box II. Here, we describe the isolation and characterization of cDNA sequences that encode a DNA binding protein with specificity for this element. The recombinant protein, tobacco GT-1a, shows similar sequence requirements for DNA binding to nuclear GT-1, as assayed by its ability to interact with previously defined 2-bp scanning mutations of box II, and is shown to be immunologically related to nuclear GT-1. The predicted structure of the 43-kD protein derived from the cDNA sequence suggests the presence of a novel helix-helix-turn-helix (HHTH) motif. Comparison between the predicted protein sequence encoded by the tobacco GT-1a cDNA and that of another GT binding protein, rice GT-2, reveals strong amino acid conservation over the HHTH region; this motif appears to be involved in the interaction between the recombinant protein and box II. Genomic DNA gel blot analysis indicated the presence of a small gene family of related sequences within the tobacco nuclear genome. RNA gel blot analysis of tobacco mRNA using the isolated cDNA as a probe showed that transcripts are present in several tissues, including both light-grown and dark-adapted leaves.
1392604	The major light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b binding proteins of the photosynthetic apparatus are encoded by families of nuclear cab genes. The expression of most cab genes is tissue specific and photoregulated in angiosperms. In transgenic tobacco plants, expression of the reporter gene beta-glucuronidase (GUS) is photoregulated and tissue specific from 5' upstream sequences of the rice cab1R gene; deletion of sequences upstream from position -170 with respect to the transcription start site eliminates the enhanced and photoregulated expression in the transgenic plants. Using an in situ transient expression assay, we have determined that the sequence OCT-R, an octamer repeat that lies within the -269 to -170 region of cab1R, is essential for photoregulated expression of the chimeric GUS gene in leaf cells of maize and rice but is not required for expression in illuminated tobacco leaves. Conversely, box III*- and G-box-like sequences found near OCT-R in cab1R are necessary for high-level transient expression of the reporter gene in tobacco leaf tissue but are not required for transient expression in maize or rice leaves.
13939636
1394627	New compounds designated talaroderxines A (1) and B (2) were isolated from a new heterothallic ascomycetous fungus, Talaromyces derxii, cultivated on rice. The structures of 1a and 1b were elucidated by means of spectroscopic examination and chemical reactions. Talaroderxines A (1a) and B (1b) are atropisomers of a 6,6'-binaphtho-alpha-pyrone derivative, and have strong antibacterial activity against Bacillus subtilis.
13947624
13951183
13956299
13956634
1395958	The AFB1 intake and the AFM1 excretion of 81 households in 10 villages, Guanxi were investigated using the ELISA method. The results showed that there was positive correlation between PLC mortality and AFB1 intake from corn and peanut oil, but not from rice. The results of stepwise regression showed that main factors were AFB1 intake of males, AFM1 excretion of females and consumption of corn. The results showed that aflatoxins were correlated with mortality rates of liver cancer. Further investigation needs to be carried out in case-control and cohort studies.
13961139
13965879
1396694	Recent studies have demonstrated that the 5' leader (omega sequence) of tobacco mosaic virus RNA has a certain enhancing capacity for translation of mRNA in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. In order to estimate the efficiency of omega to initiate translation of mRNA in Escherichia coli, in comparison to the Shine-Dalgarno (S/D) sequence, we have inserted eight different eukaryotic genes into two types of E. coli expression vectors containing one constitutive promoter (P1) but different translation-initiation sites (S/D or omega delta 3 sequence, respectively). The efficiency of transcription and translation in vivo was evaluated for these vectors by measuring the yield of protein and both the level and stability of mRNA. We report that substitution of omega delta 3 for S/D decreases the yield of expressed protein 4-1900-fold and the content of gene-specific mRNA is decreased by about sevenfold. However, in comparison with the S/D sequence, the level of protein expressed under the translational control of omega delta 3 is less sensitive to changes in the 5' coding region. We also report that the omega sequence contains a region of 10-12 nucleotides complementary to the small ribosomal subunit RNA (rRNA) of E. coli, Eikenella corrodens and Xenopus laevis, and to the rRNA of the (small ribosomal) subunit of Oryza sativa.
1397032	Recent evidence in primary neuronal cell culture implicates nitric oxide (NO) as a mediator of glutamatergic neurotoxicity acting via N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. We find that administration of the potent nitric oxide synthetase (NOS) inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine (NO-Arg) at 50 mg/kg to 100 mg/kg i.p. to 6-day old Sprague-Dawley rat pups results in prompt and long-lasting in vivo inhibition of NOS. Fifteen hours after administration, NO-Arg produces essentially complete neuroprotection against hypoxic-ischemic in a standard (Rice-Vanucci) model. These results support the hypothesis that NO may play a key mediatory role in brain damage attending focal ischemic stroke.
1397289	A cDNA clone coding for rice elongation factor 1 beta' (EF-1 beta') was isolated from a rice anther cDNA library. The clone, named RB', was 980 bp long and contained a single open reading frame coding for 223 amino acids; the first 31 amino acids, except for the first methionine, which is absent in the mature protein, are identical to those of the purified protein determined with a protein sequencer. The amino acid sequence of rice EF-1 beta' shows homology to the C-terminal half of Artemia salina EF-1 beta (59%) and human EF-1 beta (63%), but might not have a phosphorylation site for casein kinase II which has been conserved in Artemia saline EF-1 beta and EF-1 delta, human EF-1 beta and silkworm EF-1 beta'.
13982856
13986972
13993465
13995437
14004313
14008263
14012292
14012294
14018902
14019869
14035279
14038559
14046328
14052750
14056265	In British Guiana, the successful eradication of Anopheles darlingi and malaria from the coastal areas has caused a very rapid increase in the population and has favoured a considerable social and economic improvement and expansion of both agriculture and industry. Housing and industrial developments and the constantly expanding rice cultivation have taken over most of the accessible pasture-lands, displacing the livestock which previously abounded around villages and settlements. Mechanization on the roads and in the fields increases daily, and the horse, the mule, the donkey and the ploughing oxen are gradually becoming obsolete.In some areas these changes have already caused such an upset in the balance between the human and the livestock population that A. aquasalis, a very abundant species all along the coast, but until recently entirely "fixed" by the livestock population, is now shifting its attention from livestock to man. On the Demerara river estuary, an area where malaria transmission was interrupted sixteen years ago and where eradication has been continually maintained, this mosquito has been responsible for a sharp, but localized, outbreak of P. vivax malaria. An entirely new epidemiological problem thus presents itself.Environmental changes, introduced and fostered by successful malaria eradication, may thus cause an anopheline species, potentially capable of malaria transmission, but originally inactive and harmless as a vector, to alter its feeding habits and thereby renew transmission. The immediate and long-term significance of some secondary and potential vectors may therefore require renewed evaluation in the planning of malaria eradication campaigns.
14061	Three strains of Streptomyces rimosus were grown on four different media. The one suitable for the production of oxytetracycline by Streptomyces rimosus 12907 was modified by black strap molasses, fodder yeast (40% total protein) and rice bran. The volume of the fermentation medium was sealed up in a 1200-litre fermentor aerated with sterile air obtained from a system used in the purification of air. 850 g crude oxytetracycline was obtained when the fermented medium (700 litres) was extracted with 1-butanol.
1407825	Several factors, such as environment and heredity, are presumed to be related to longevity. Of these nutrition is believed to function as a regulatory factor. Okinawa prefecture is well known as the leading area for longevity in the world. We therefore examined present and past nutrition records together with the background of all the 88 centenarians (18 male, 70 female) who are living in Okinawa in 1991. Their leading occupation was agriculture, and they were in work until the 8th decade. They took rice or potato as carbohydrate with abundant vegetables and vegetable protein or fish protein. Although they did not take a rich diet it was well balanced, and was assumed to be related to longevity because of the decreased incidence of atherosclerosis; together with a good genetic background, suggested by the accumulation of longevity in their siblings.
14081619
14089846
1409494	METHODS. The relation between green tea consumption and serum lipid concentrations was examined using cross-sectional data on 1,306 males who received the retirement health examination at the Self-Defense Forces Fukuoka Hospital between October 1986 and December 1988. RESULTS. After adjustment for rank, smoking, alcohol use, physical activity, and body mass index, serum total cholesterol levels were found to be inversely related to the consumption of green tea while no association was noted with serum triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Adjusted mean concentrations of total cholesterol were 8 mg/dl lower in men drinking nine cups or more per day than in those consuming zero to two cups per day. Serum cholesterol levels were inversely associated with traditional Japanese dietary habits (intake of rice and soy bean paste soup) and positively associated with Westernized habits. Additional adjustment for these dietary variables did not alter the inverse relation between green tea and total cholesterol.
1409714	The coat protein (CP) gene of rice stripe virus was introduced into two japonica varieties of rice by electroporation of protoplasts. The resultant transgenic plants expressed the CP at high levels (up to 0.5% of total soluble protein) and exhibited a significant level of resistance to virus infection. Plants derived from selfed progeny of the primary transformants also expressed the CP and showed viral resistance, indicating stable transmission of the CP gene and the trait of resistance to the next generation. Moreover, the virally encoded strip disease-specific protein was not detected in transgenic plants expressing CP 8 weeks after inoculation, indicating protection before viral multiplication. These studies demonstrated that CP-mediated resistance to virus infection can be extended to cereals and to the viruses transmitted by an insect vector (planthopper).
1409917	Although starch is the world's most abundant nutritive carbohydrate, its sensory properties are not as well understood as those of sugars. Previous researchers have assumed that all starches have the same flavor. The present experiments examined flavor differences among starches. Untrained rats were offered a choice of suspensions containing raw versus cooked starch. For some starches (potato and rice), rats strongly preferred cooked over uncooked starch. For other starches (regular corn, corn amylopectin, and wheat), rats showed little or no preference for cooked over uncooked starch. In order to determine whether the greater preference for cooked starch reflects a difference in flavor intensity, rats were conditioned to avoid potato or corn amylopectin starches by pairing ingestion of these substances with lithium chloride injections. Rats trained to avoid raw starch also avoided cooked starch, indicating that cooked and raw starch have similar flavors. However, when these trained rats were offered a choice between cooked and raw starch, they avoided the raw starch; this result is inconsistent with the assumption that cooking enhances the intensity of starch flavor. Similar results were obtained with corn amylopectin and potato starch, even though these starches differ greatly with regard to the effects of cooking on preference in untrained rats. However, rats trained to avoid potato starch avoided this starch to a greater degree than did rats trained to avoid corn amylopectin; conversely, rats trained to avoid corn amylopectin avoided this starch to a greater degree than did rats trained to avoid potato starch. Therefore, the flavor of starch is complex; there are specific flavor notes related to species and cooking.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1410242	Use of cigarette tobacco by large proportions of the population of Middle Eastern countries has been reported; however, little is known about smoking behavior in one of America's fastest growing minorities, the Arab Americans. The purpose of this study was to examine cigarette smoking behavior of 237 randomly selected Arab American adults from a telephone listing in the Detroit area. Participants lived in the geographic Arab American community and identified with a Middle Eastern cultural heritage. Nurses, who spoke both English and Arabic, interviewed one adult family member using the 59-item self-report from the Cardiovascular Risk Factor Survey developed by Rice. Mean age of respondents was 40.4 years, 97 percent had been born in the Middle East, and 67 percent had been living in the United States 15 years or less. Current smokers rate was 38.9 percent, former smokers rate was 11.1 percent, never smokers rate was 50 percent, and the quit ratio (proportion of ever smokers who are former smokers) was 22.2 percent. Fifty-four percent of the current smokers were between 25 and 34 years of age; fewer women than men were former smokers, and the highest proportion of current smokers were Lebanese. Subjects who had smoked for the longest time were the least well educated. Arab Americans in this sample had a higher smoking rate, a lower quitting rate, and a much lower quit ratio when compared with national and State of Michigan data. With the growing numbers of Middle Eastern immigrants, there is potential for a dramatic increase in smoking-related health problems.
14110382
14122938
14134156
14147980
1414972	The influence of sex on glucose and insulin responses in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes was studied in 12 men and 11 matched women. Two meals of either 100 g white bread or 60 g (raw weight) white rice were given. Blood glucose response areas to white bread (517 vs 509 mmol/L) and to rice (306 vs 353 mmol/L) over a 300-min observation period were similar in females and males, respectively. Insulin responses showed an identical pattern to that of glucose in females and males--35784 vs 28230 pmol/L after white bread and 28044 vs 19464 pmol/L min after rice (NS) over a 300-min observation period, respectively. Within the two study groups, blood glucose-response areas to white bread were significantly higher than those to rice (P less than 0.05), whereas there were no differences in insulin-response areas within or between the two groups. The glycemic index of rice for females (62 +/- 9; mean +/- SE) and males (66 +/- 5) was similar.
14159377
14159830
1416222	The serological diagnosis of extraintestinal infections with E. histolytica by indirect immunofluorescence (IFAT) requires a corpuscular antigen. This is produced in our laboratory via polyxenic cultivation of E. histolytica strain HK 9 in a nutrient medium containing a simple salt mixture (Resembling the Ringer-mixture), calf serum and rice starch. It was the aim of the experiments described in this paper to search for a useful medium in which the amebae grow in high density but without substances disturbing the antigen production like debris or rice starch granules. It was shown that the cell culture media of EAGLE MEM and PARKER were easy to handle (contrary to the worldwide used DIAMOND medium TYI-S-33) and brought good results. After a period of 10 subcultures both media were suitable for the cultivation of E. histolytica for making an antigen reasonable for IFAT. As a side effect it was noticed that there was an adaptation phase during which the amebae grew slowly when the medium was changed to another which was completely different (from a cell culture medium to a Ringer-like solution).
14163937
14164285
14191919
14191924
14192269
14193267
14196287
1421143	A region of the mitochondrial (mt) DNA of wheat was studied because of its homology with other plant mtDNAs. Sequence analysis revealed an open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 247 amino acids. Comparison of the sequence of the putative polypeptide with the protein sequence data of the Swiss-Prot library reveals homology with subunit 6 of the NADH-ubiquinone complex of mitochondria from Marchantia polymorpha, Podospora anserina, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and of chloroplasts from M. polymorpha and Oryza sativa. No similarity was detected when compared with the subunit 6 of animal mitochondria, probably due to the rapid evolution of the sequence. A single 1.2 kb transcript appears in northern RNA blots. We found 15 edited sites of which only 13 give amino acid changes. This is the first report of a mt nad6 gene in higher plants.
14211573
142120	The process of isotopic exchange between extrinsic 59Fe tracer and native nonheme Fe in a rice-based meal was studied by performing Sephadex G-50 column chromatography of soluble supernatant of (1) 59Fe-labeled meal after in vitro pepsin digestion and (2) duodenal aspirate obtained from a human subject fed a similarly labeled meal. The elution patterns of radioactivity and chemically determined nonheme Fe differed markedly when the supernatant of in vitro digested meal at pH 1.8 was analyzed, whereas the patterns were similar when pH was adjusted to 6.2 and also for duodenal aspirate at pH 7. Our results imply that complete isotopic exchange between 59Fe tracer and native nonheme Fe in rice-based meal does not take place in vitro or even during gastric digestion but that it is probably completed in the duodenum.
14215718
14217182
1421931	Twenty-six persistent diarrhoea patients aged 4 to 18 months were treated with a diet prepared with rice powder, soya oil, glucose, egg white and water. Absorption of macronutrients was estimated in a 72 h balance study and clinical response was examined during one week of dietary treatment. Nutrient absorption was compared with that of 25 healthy age-matched controls treated with the same diet. Twenty-one patients (81%) recovered from diarrhoea within seven days. Absorption of nutrients was significantly reduced among the persistent diarrhoea patients. More malnourished patients had a significantly reduced absorption of nutrients except carbohydrate and an increased severity and longer duration of diarrhoea. Total gut transit time had significant association with nutrient absorption in the persistent diarrhoea patients. The period of recovery negatively correlated with coefficient of absorption and positively with initial stool weight. Failure to recover was associated with severity of diarrhoea and systemic infection. The study indicates that nutrient absorption is significantly reduced in patients with persistent diarrhoea and nutritional status, and that initial purging rate and intestinal hurry are significantly related to the prognosis and nutrient absorption.
1421932	In a prospective study we randomized 102 male children (age 6-36 months) with persistent diarrhea to receive a traditional rice-lentil (Khitchri) diet and yogurt (K-Y) or a soy formula (alone for seven days and then in combination with K-Y for seven days). Of 73 children satisfying the study criteria, 66 were successfully treated and there were 7 treatment failures. There was poor concordance between parental accounts of severity of diarrhea or vomiting and that observed after admission. Significant risk factors associated with treatment failure included younger age (p < 0.005) and vomiting at presentation (p < 0.02). The greatest number of risk factors associated with delayed recovery (> 10 days) were identified during an initial evaluation period (the first 8 h after admission). These included greater severity of watery diarrhoea (p < 0.01) and increased ORS intake (p < 0.02). Our data suggest that an initial evaluation period, including objective observations, may identify children with persistent diarrhea who are at greatest need of hospitalization.
1422207	A cDNA clone that encodes oryzacystatin, a cysteine protease inhibitor from rice, was isolated and expressed in Escherichia coli BL-21 (DE3) using an expression plasmid under the control of a T7 RNA polymerase promoter. The construct pT7OC 9b encoded a fusion protein containing 11 amino acid residues of the NH2 terminus of the bacterial protein phi 10 and 79 residues of oryzacystatin lacking 23 NH2-terminal residues of the wild-type protein. Recombinant oryzacystatin (ROC) constituted approximately 10% of the total bacterial protein mass and was purified in a single step by anion-exchange chromatography. The inhibitory activity of ROC toward papain (Ki = 3 x 10(-8) M) was comparable with that of the naturally occurring protein isolated from rice. Caseinolytic activity in midgut homogenates from seven species of stored product insects was inhibited from 18 to 85% by ROC, whereas the same activity was inhibited from 14 to 69% by the serine proteinase inhibitor phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. Midguts of stored product insects apparently contain both cysteine proteinases and serine proteinases, but the relative amounts vary with the species. When fed to the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum, 10 wt% ROC in the diet suppressed growth approximately 35% relative to that of the control group of insects.
1423538	Ten-year surveillance of Rice-field-typed leptospirosis was carried out in high-infected foci. Twenty two parameters of epidemic data were divided into 3 categories and cluster-analyzed. 5 typical variables were selected for multiple regression equation. The equation contained four factors, i.e. rodents density, carriage rates of main animal hosts, GMT of population antibody against leptospira and quantity of rainfall in August. The expected morbidity of leptospirosis calculated by the equation were roughly identical to the real morbidity.
14237172
14265864
14278204
14285077
14293320
14295663
14299217
14300751
143127	The question as to the prevalence of toxigenic microscopic fungi in foodstuffs originating in Kazakhstan is but little studied. In particular, no information on the microflora in the products coming from the south-western areas of the republic are available. The paper brings forth the results consequent upon the study of the problem in the Guriev and Dzhambul regions typical of this area. Microflora in 317 samples of various foodstuffs (wheat grains, flour and mealy products, rice, husket millet, dried meat, etc.) taken in rural families was studied by conventional methods. A highly frequent and intensive contamination of the vegetable and animal products with micomycetes, among which a definite prevalence of the species belonging to genus Aspergillus was noted. Aspergilli were represented mainly by the species known by their toxigenicity (A. flavus, A. fumigatus, A. candidus, A. niger, A. versicolor and others). A conclusion is drawn as to a potential hazard of mycotoxicoses arising in the south-western part of Kazakhstan. Recommendations for instituting preventive measures are given.
1432472
14329580
1433145	A multistage stratified sampling procedure was used to select 1673 Bahraini school children (871 boys and 802 girls) to study their food habits. The results revealed that breakfast was more often skipped than lunch and supper by both sexes. Significant differences in the food consumption between boys and girls were noticed at morning snack; beef burgers, liver and egg sandwiches were more consumed by boys, while girls preferred carbonated beverages, cheese, uncarbonated canned drinks and broad beans. The foods consumed at lunch were very similar to those of the adult population in Bahrain. However, the percentage of fresh fruits consumed at lunch was almost double by girls (31.9%) than boys (17.1%). Corn-puffs, carbonated beverages, chocolates, uncarbonated canned drinks and fruits were the main foods consumed at afternoon snack. Boys were more likely to consume tea, meat, eggs, cheese and rice at supper, while girls preferred cheese, corn-puffs and carbonated beverages. Age has also a significant influence on dietary habits. The consumption of bread at breakfast decreased with age while the consumption of carbonated beverages at morning snack increased remarkably with age. In general the meal and snack patterns of school children vary considerably with age and sex.
14336164
1433761	To compare the cognitive development in Taiwanese children who had been exposed prenatally to high levels of heat-degraded polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) with control children who were exposed to background levels. The disorder was called Yu-Cheng, "oil disease," in Taiwan. Matched-pair cohort study. Communities in central Taiwan in which there had been a cooking-oil contamination and mass poisoning by heat-degraded PCBs in 1978 through 1979. One hundred eighteen children born between June 1978 and March 1985 during or after their mothers' consumption of contaminated rice oil; 118 children matched for age, sex, neighborhood, maternal age, and parental education and occupational class; and 15 older siblings of exposed children, born before the poisoning. Cognitive development measured from 1985 through 1990 using the Chinese versions of the Stanford-Binet test and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Revised, The exposed children scored approximately 5 points lower on the Stanford-Binet test at the ages of 4 and 5 years and approximately 5 points lower on the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Revised, at the ages of 6 and 7 years. Children born up to 6 years after their mothers' exposure were as affected as children born within a year or two after exposure when examined at 6 and 7 years of age. Older siblings resembled the control children. Children prenatally exposed to heat-degraded PCBs had poorer cognitive development than their matched controls. The effect persisted in the children up to the age of 7 years, and children born long after the exposure were still affected.
14354318
14354622
14354930
1435575	The authors characterize the annual cycle of An. pulcherrimus population, distinguish the stages of this cycle that differ by the population composition and number and by the size of its area. The spatial structure of the population depends on the site of water bodies for wintering and the conditions at different territories. High numbers of mosquitoes were found in the southern part of the oasis at villages of rice-growing farmers. Mosquito population densities in the central parts of the oasis are much lower and are increased nearby sandy islets.
14357908
14369241
14369815
14371818
14372421
14373785
14384166
14386179
14387584
14388027
14392501
14395861
14395862
14395863
1439733	The performance of aeration, photodecomposition and biological degradation processes as methods to reduce molinate contamination levels in effluent water from rice fields was studied. Aeration produced a molinate dissipation of 84%, as against 22% without aeration. Application of UV-light to clean water solutions achieved a molinate photodecomposition of 96% in 24 h. Maximal degradation obtained in algal cultures was 55% in 20 days and 78% in 40 days. In micro-organism cultures, kept in darkness and with a continuous flow of aqueous solution of molinate and inorganic salts, a degradation of 97% was achieved.
1439741	The use of gel permeation chromatography (GPC) and capillary gas chromatography (GC) with thermionic detection (NPD) is described as a routine methodology for the determination of organophosphorus pesticides in biota samples. Confirmatory analysis is done by capillary GC with mass spectrometry in the negative chemical ionization mode (NCI-MS). As an example, the use of GPC is described as trace-enrichment technique and clean-up to remove coextractive lipids in samples of mosquito fish Gambussia affinis collected during periods of 1987-1989 in the rice crop fields of the Ebro Delta (Spain). Recoveries of dioxathion, fenitrothion, malathion, tetrachlorvinphos, azinphos-ethyl, ronnel and coumaphos varied between 60% and 80% depending on the compound.
14401698
1440633	The mycotoxin chlamydosporol (C11H14O5) has been independently isolated from three different Fusarium species (F. chlamydosporum, F. acuminatum and F. culmorum), suggesting that its distribution may be widespread. We have developed a sensitive, specific fluorometric assay for chlamydosporol that allows quantitation in crude culture extracts. Using this assay we have observed production of chlamydosporol on rice medium by 23 of 40 isolates (58%) of Fusarium sp. examined in amounts as high as 0.8% (wt/wt) dried culture medium.
14407791
1440802	Three trials with torn bed nets impregnated with permethrin and deltamethrin were made under field conditions at the Soumousso Field Station and the Vallée du Kou rice-field area, both in Burkina Faso, and the Djoumouna fish pond area in the Congo Republic. Even a considerably torn correctly impregnated bed net could be an useful method for limiting human-anopheline contacts. But bed nets in poor condition, i.e. too little impregnated and too much torn, cannot protect the users against anopheline bites. Protection increases with insecticide concentration, but at a high dosage insecticide could have more a repellent than a killing effect. Therefore a balance has to be found for the optimum rate of insecticide treatment of bed nets to obtain a real reduction in malaria transmission and morbidity, in every epidemiological situation.
14419317
14419318
1442022	We determined the effects of rice bran broth bathing therapy in 17 outpatients with atopic dermatitis. The rice bran broth used in this study was made in our hospital and distributed to the patients who dissolved it in the bathtub as a medicinal bath. In the case of one patient, redness and itching of the skin increased just after bathing. The patient subsequently discontinued therapy. We followed the other 16 patients who performed rice bran broth bathing for 2-5 months and examined their skin symptoms once a month. The efficacy of this therapy in alleviating skin symptoms was excellent in four of the 16 evaluated patients, good in seven, slightly effective in four, and ineffective in one. None of the 16 patients experienced negative effects of treatment. Recurrence of initial symptoms was not detected in any patient during rice bran broth bathing. Rice bran broth bathing therapy appears to be safe and clinically useful.
14424490
1442654	We determined the glycemic (GI) and insulin-index (II) values for 12 rice products, using eight healthy subjects. The products were brown and white versions of three commercial varieties of rice [two varieties with normal amylose content (20%) and the other with 28% amylose], a waxy rice (0-2% amylose), a converted rice, a quick-cooking brown rice, puffed rice cakes, rice pasta, and rice bran. The GI of the rices ranged from 64 +/- 9 to 93 +/- 11, where glucose = 100. The high amylose rice gave a lower GI and II (P < 0.01) than did the normal-amylose and waxy-rice varieties. The converted rice and most other rice products gave a high GI. Insulin indices correlated positively with GI (r = 0.75, P < 0.05), although they were lower than expected. These results indicate that many varieties of rice, whether white, brown, or parboiled, should be classified as high GI foods. Only high-amylose varieties are potentially useful in low-GI diets.
14434910
14436264
14438947
14442313	Young mice were maintained for periods of 1 to 6 weeks on experimental diets containing all known growth factors, but differing in their protein and amino acid contents. All diets were supplemented with L-cystine. The effect of the nutritional regimen on infection was tested by inoculating the animals with either one of four pathogens (Mycobacterium tuberculosis var. bovis, Mycobacterium fortuitum, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae type C), and by observing the survival time. The infective dose was administered by either one of three routes: intravenous, intraperitoneal, or air-borne (aerosol). In some experiments, the animals were maintained in groups of five throughout the tests. In other experiments they were housed in individual cages. This difference in housing did not affect the results in a detectable manner. Mice fed diets containing 5 or 8 per cent casein as sole source of amino acid (except for cystine supplementation) proved more susceptible to the experimental diseases than did mice fed diets containing 15 or 20 per cent of the same protein. Susceptibility to infection developed when wheat gluten, or soybean alpha-protein, was substituted for casein-even in high concentrations (15 or 20 per cent). In one experiment, mice were fed a diet containing as sole source of amino acids a mixture of soybean and rice flour, so designed as to provide a protein concentration of 15 per cent, with an amino acid pattern similar to that of casein. These animals gained weight at the same rate as those fed a diet containing 15 per cent casein and they exhibited a satisfactory level of resistance to bacterial infection. The infection-enhancing effect of low casein concentration (5 and 8 per cent) could be corrected by supplementing the diet with the proper mixture of amino acids. This could be done using either synthetic or natural amino acids. In contrast, susceptibility to infection developed when low casein diets were supplemented with unbalanced mixtures of amino acids. The infection-enhancing effect of gluten diets could not be corrected by supplementing the latter with lysine even though this supplementation markedly improved weight gains in uninfected animals. It appears in conclusion that the relative proportion of the various amino acids in the diet is as important a factor as their total amount in conditioning resistance to bacterial infections. This effect of nutrition on resistance can be detected irrespective of the route of infection: intravenous, intraperitoneal, or air-borne. Moreover, the effect has been observed with two strains of mice differing markedly in their natural resistance to bacterial infection.
1444361	Fifty-five Fusarium isolates belonging to nine species were collected from fungus-invaded tissue of stored sugar beets and identified as F. acuminatum (11 isolates), F. avenaceum (1 isolate), F. culmorum (1 isolate), F. equiseti (23 isolates), F. graminearum (4 isolates), F. oxysporum (1 isolate), F. solani (4 isolates), F. sporotrichioides (7 isolates), and F. subglutinans (2 isolates). All isolates were cultured on autoclaved rice grains and assayed for toxicity by feeding weanling female rats the ground-rice cultures of the isolates in a 50% mixture with a regular diet for 5 days. Fifty-eight percent of the isolates were acutely toxic to rats, 26% caused hematuria, 18% caused hemorrhages, and 29% caused uterine enlargement. In most cases, toxicity could not be accounted for by the known toxins found. The following mycotoxins were found in extracts of the rice cultures: zearalenone (22 to 6,282 micrograms/g), chlamydosporol (HM-8) (68 to 4,708 micrograms/g), moniliformin (45 to 400 micrograms/g), deoxynivalenol (10 to 34 micrograms/g), 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol (5 to 10 micrograms/g), diacetoxyscirpenol (22 to 63 micrograms/g), monoacetoxyscirpenol (21 to 26 micrograms/g), scirpenetriol (24 micrograms/g), T-2 toxin (4 to 425 micrograms/g), HT-2 toxin (2 to 284 micrograms/g), neosolaniol (2 to 250 micrograms/g), and T-2 tetraol (4 to 12 micrograms/g). F. equiseti was the predominant species found on visibly molded beets in the field. Six of 25 moldy sugar beet root samples collected in the field contained zearalenone in concentrations ranging between 12 and 391 ng/g, whereas 10 samples from commercial stockpiles were negative for zearalenone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1444829	We determined, using the MAST system, specific IgE antibodies to allergens in the circulating blood of 127 patients with bronchial asthma, allergic rhinitis and atopic dermatitis in Okinawa. The positive rates to inhalant allergens in all patients examined by the MAST system were as follows: Dermatophagoides farinae 65%, house dust 58%, cat epithelium 17% and Japanese cedar 9%. In addition, the positive rates to food allergens found in all patients were as follows: wheat 16%, shrimp 14%, egg white, rice and crab 12%. The average number of positive allergens in the patients with atopic dermatitis was larger than that in those with allergic respiratory diseases only. The above five specific IgE antibodies were detected simultaneously in 12 (9%) of the 127 patients. In addition, the average number of overlapping positive allergens was 2.0 in all patients. From these results, it was suggested that the number of overlapping positive allergens in patients on Okinawa is smaller than in other areas of Japan as compared with other papers.
1445406	Methane produced microbiologically is currently used as an energy source, especially by cities and industries, albeit at a level far below its potential; the incentive is currently to save money on disposal costs for waste problems. Anaerobic digestion can be helpful in degrading several halogenated hydrocarbon wastes, and methanogens are partly responsible. Ethane instead of methane may be a future product of interest. Some pure cultures of methanogens may be suitable for production of B-12, or perhaps the speciality biochemical F420, a 5-deazaflavin of interest to both methanogen and streptomyces researchers. Methanogens can cause a variety of problems, including biocorrosion, increased atmospheric methane, and ruminant nutrition loss. Studies of tropical wetlands, including rice paddies and swamps, and the study of a variety of ruminants in the tropics are particularly interesting and appropriate at this time, with respect to methane produced in these ecosystems. In some cases, it may be possible to control methane production by the use of inhibitors or ecological control mechanisms.
1445827	Effects of cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz)-borne organic cyanide and inorganic cyanide in the form of sodium cyanide on bone and muscle development were investigated in eighteen dogs of Nigerian breed. After 16 weeks of stabilization in the laboratory from the time of purchase when the dogs were fed on the same diet, they were randomly assigned to three experimental groups of six dogs each. The control group was fed on rice while the other two groups were fed on either cassava (gari) or rice plus cyanide. The three diets were made isoenergetic and isonitrogenous by varying the quantity of meat incorporated into them. The results obtained after 14 weeks of feeding the respective diets indicated that there was retardation of muscle development in the gari-fed dogs. This may have resulted from gluconeogenesis from muscle protein associated with suppression of production of insulin by the pancreas in this group. The results indicated also that the effects of inorganic dietary cyanides on muscle development were different. Both forms of dietary cyanides, however, had no adverse effect on bone development.
1447626	Digestive intolerance to food proteins may occur in childhood as a result of a wide range of etiologic and pathophysiologic mechanisms. Cow milk protein intolerance is the most common form of food intolerance in children. Food allergy and food intolerance may be confused because both produce similar symptoms, especially in young children with clinical manifestations of food allergy localized to the gastrointestinal tract. On the other hand, food-sensitive enteropathy may be defined as the clinical food-related syndromes associated with an abnormal small intestinal mucosa. Although several foods have been reported to damage the small intestinal mucosa in infancy (soy, rice, fish, chicken meat, egg), cow milk-sensitive enteropathy is the most common cause. Whatever the mechanisms, digestive intolerance to food proteins with or without enteropathy is primarily a temporary condition of infancy, in contrast to most forms of food allergy. In children with these disorders, symptoms usually resolve by 1 to 3 years of age. The variation in prevalence rates of this disorder in different countries can be explained by different diagnostic criteria. The classic food-sensitive enteropathy syndromes with chronic diarrhea and failure to thrive in infancy have become rarer in some European countries, including Spain. Some risk factors for the development of these conditions appear to be early exposure to cow milk feedings, acute infectious diarrhea, and malnutrition. Breast-feeding appears to be at least partially protective.
1447654	To determine whether thickening of infant formula feedings with rice cereal increases coughing, we studied 25 infants from birth to 6 months of age, referred for evaluation of gastroesophageal reflux. Coughing was blindly quantified after each of a pair of isocaloric meals (one thickened and one unthickened). Coughing was more frequent after thickened feedings than after unthickened feedings.
1448918	Ribonucleoprotein particles (RNPs) of rice hoja blanca virus (RHBV) were purified and used for electron microscopic analysis and antibody production. Antibodies made to RNPs specifically decorated purified RNPs. The RNPs typically showed characteristic tenuivirus morphologies. They were approximately 8 nm in diameter, mostly circular in nature, and exhibited branching and a high degree of superhelicity. When the RNP antibodies were used for in situ immunogold labeling analysis of RHBV-infected tissues, no specific structures were identified, but gold particles were distributed throughout the cytosol of RHBV-infected but not healthy plants. However, amorphous semi-electron opaque inclusion bodies (ASO-IBs) were abundant in cells of RHBV-infected plants. While the ASO-IBs were not labeled with the anti-RNP antiserum, they were specifically labeled with antibodies to the RHBV major noncapsid protein (NCP) and with antibodies to the NCP of another tenuivirus, maize stripe virus.
14489213
14490607
1449193	The transformation of dracunculiasis from an obscure and neglected rural disease to the highly visible target of a national eradication campaign in Nigeria is described in this report. This process progressed through four overlapping stages: documentation of the extent and nature of the disease as a national problem, demonstration in Nigeria that dracunculiasis could be effectively prevented by targeted provision and use of protected rural water supplies, mobilization for community participation in, and political support of, the eradication effort, and implementation of interventions nationwide. The conduct of the first national village-by-village search for cases and documentation of the adverse socioeconomic impact of the disease (e.g., on rice production) in Nigeria were the key elements used to solicit greater attention to the problem and mobilize support for its eradication. The critical role of the mass media in this effort and other benefits of this mobilization strategy are also highlighted.
14500792	In the germinated cereal aleurone layer, gibberellic acids (GA) induce expression of a number of genes encoding hydrolytic enzymes that participate in the mobilization of stored molecules. Previous analyses suggest that the key events controlling the GA-regulated gene expression in the aleurone are formation of active transcription machinery referred to as the GA responsive complex, followed by recruiting GAMYB. In general, bipartite promoter contexts composed of the GA-responsive element and the pyrimidine box are observed within the regulatory regions of cereal GA-responsive genes. Protein factors that recognize each promoter sequence were identified and distinct effects on the GA-mediated activation of gene expression have been also investigated; however, the connection and intercalation between two promoter motifs remain obscure. In this study, I have evaluated cooperative function of GAMYB and a pyrimidine box-binding protein OsDOF3 that influenced the promoter activity of the most predominant GA-responsive gene (RAmy1A) of rice (Oryza sativa). Transient expression of OsDOF3 in the germinated aleurone prolonged GAMYB function on the reporter expression in the absence of GA. The synergistic effect required a set of DNA bindings of two proteins on the RAmy1A promoter region. The yeast two-hybrid assay showed the physical interaction of GAMYB and OsDOF3 in yeast cells, indicating that the association of GAMYB and OsDOF3 may be a functional unit in transcription regulation. The results showed the accessory function of OsDOF3 responsible for a dosage-dependent mediation of GA signaling that leads to high-level expression of physiological target genes.
14500894	We report the development of LumenP, a new neural network-based predictor for the identification of proteins targeted to the thylakoid lumen of plant chloroplasts and prediction of their cleavage sites. When used together with the previously developed TargetP predictor, LumenP reaches a significantly better performance than what has been recorded for previous attempts at predicting thylakoid lumen location, mostly due to a lower false positive rate. The combination of TargetP and LumenP predicts around 1.5%-3% of all proteins encoded in the genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa to be located in the lumen of the thylakoid.
14501194	The complete nucleotide sequences of 10 genomic segments (S1-S10) from an isolate of rice black-streaked dwarf virus causing rough dwarf disease on maize (RBSDV-Hbm) in China were determined, a total of 29,142 base pairs (bp). Each segment possessed the genus-specific termini with conserved nucleotide sequences of (+) 5'-AAGUUUUU......CAGCUNNNGUC-3' and a perfect or imperfect inverted repeat of seven to eleven nucleotides immediately adjacent to the terminal conserved sequence. While the coding strand of most RBSDV-Hbm segments contained one open reading frame (ORF), there were two non-overlapping ORFs in S7 and S9, and one small overlapping ORF downstream of the major ORF in S5. Homology comparisons suggest that S1 encodes a RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), with 63.5% and 32.6% identity to the putative RdRp encoded by Fiji disease virus (FDV) and Nilaparvata lugens reovirus (NLRV), respectively. The proteins encoded by S2, S3, and S4 showed various degrees of similarity to those encoded by the corresponding segments of FDV or NLRV. In S5 and S6, low identities were found to those of FDV only, but not to NLRV. Sequence analyses showed that RBSDV-Hbm had the most similarities in the genome organizations and the coding assignments with a RBSDV isolated from rice in China, in which each pair of the corresponding segments shared sequence identities of 93.8-98.9% and 93.5-100% at nucleotide or amino acid levels, respectively. In addition, phylogenetic analyses suggested that RBSDV-Hbm had the closest evolutionary relationship to RBSDV in Fijivirus.
14503378	In this paper, a comparative study of removal efficiency of heavy metals [copper Cu(II), Manganese--Mn(II), Iron--Fe(II), Nickel--Ni(II), Lead--Pb(II) and Zinc--[Zn(II)] from aqueous solution by adsorption on non-conventional materials and on chemically activated non-conventional materials, is presented. It is found that the adsorption potential varies as a function of contact time, concentration, particle size, pH and flow rate. Of all the low cost adsorbents used in the study, saw dust is found to possess greater adsorption efficiency for all metals, than rice husk under identical experimental conditions. Chemically activated saw dust could remove 98.28% of Cu(II); 100% of Mn(II); 96.72% of Fe(II); 96.72% of Cd(II); 75% of Cr(VI); 80% of Ni(II); 95% of Pb(II) and 93% of Zn(II), from the corresponding metal solution taken one at a time.
14503524	In order to control the material circulation in the Closed Ecology Experiment Facilities (CEEF), it is necessary to clarify material flow in the Closed Plant Experiment Facility (CPEF) of CEEF. We tried to grow rice plants and measure the nitrogen contents in rice plant and nutrient solution in plant cultivation bed to trace the material balance in CPEF. The measurements were carried out under the condition of 750 ppm (v/v) CO2 at 26/19 degrees C in the plant cultivation room. The measurements showed the absorbed nitrogen amount in plant was less than the outflow nitrogen amount from nutrient solution. This difference between absorbed and outflow quantity reached to 17%.
14503616	In populations of phytophagous insects that use the host plant as a rendezvous for mating, divergence in host preference could lead to sympatric speciation. Speciation requires the elimination of "generalist" genotypes, that is, those with intermediate host preference. This could occur because such genotypes have an inherent fitness disadvantage, or because preference alleles become associated with alleles that are oppositely selected on the two hosts. Although the former mechanism has been shown to be plausible, the latter mechanism has not been studied in detail. I consider a multilocus model (the "Bush model") in which one set of biallelic loci affects host preference, and a second set affects viability on the hosts once chosen. Alleles that increase viability on one host decrease viability on the other, and all loci are assumed to be unlinked. With moderately strong selection on the viability loci, preference alleles rapidly become associated with viability alleles, and the population splits into two reproductively isolated host specialist populations. The conditions for speciation to occur in this model, as measured by the strength of selection required, are somewhat more stringent than in a model in which preference and viability are controlled by the same loci (one-trait model). In contrast, the conditions are much less stringent than in a model in which speciation requires buildup of associations between viability loci and loci controlling a host-independent assortative mating trait (canonical two-trait model). Moreover, in the one-trait model, and to a lesser extent the Bush model, the strength of selection needed to initiate speciation is only slightly greater than that needed to complete it. This indicates that documenting instances of sympatric species that are reproductively isolated only by host or habitat preference would provide evidence for the plausibility of sympatric speciation in nature.
14503855	The effectiveness of different promoters for use in transgenic tobacco was compared using a reporter gene expressing chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT). Plasmids with CAT gene controlled by cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV 35S), rice actin1 (Ract1) and tobacco polyubiquitin (Tubi.u4) promoters were delivered into tobacco plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The Ract1 promoter, previously shown to be a strong promoter in rice and other monocots, failed to promote strong expression in tobacco. CAT expression was greatest from the vector carrying Tubi.u4 with a 5'UTR and leader intron without a ubiquitin monomer. In transgenic plants harboring the Tubi.u4 promoter, CAT expression was approximately twice that of the CaMV 35S promoter. Our results suggest that foreign genes under the control of a ubiquitin promoter devoid of monomer will be useful for high-level gene expression in tobacco.
14503923	The genetics of spikelet formation, a feature unique to grasses such as rice and maize, is yet to be fully understood, although a number of meristem and organ identity mutants have been isolated and investigated in Arabidopsis and maize. Using a two-element Ac/Ds transposon tagging system we have isolated a rice mutant, designated branched floretless 1 (bfl1) which is defective in the transition from spikelet meristem to floret meristem. The bfl1 mutant shows normal differentiation of the primary rachis-branches leading to initial spikelet meristem (bract-like structure equivalent to rudimentary glumes) formation but fails to develop empty glumes and florets. Instead, axillary meristems in the bract-like structure produce sequential alternate branching, thus resulting in a coral shaped morphology of the branches in the developing panicle. The bfl1 mutant harbours a single Ds insertion in the upstream region of the BFL1 gene on chromosome 7 corresponding to PAC clone P0625E02 (GenBank Acc No. message URL http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=nucleotide&list_uids=34395191&dopt=GenBank&term=ap004570AP004570). RT-PCR analyses revealed a drastic reduction of BFL1 transcript levels in the bfl1 mutant compared to that in the wild-type. In each of the normal panicle-bearing progeny plants, from occasional revertant seeds of the vegetatively-propagated mutant plant, Ds was shown to be excised from the bfl1 locus. BFL1 contains an EREBP/AP2 domain and is most likely an ortholog of the maize transcription factor gene BRANCHED SILKLESS1 (BD1). bfl1 is a Ds-tagged rice mutant defective in the transition from spikelet meristem (SM) to floret meristem (FM). BFL1 is most probably a rice ortholog of the maize ERF (EREBP/AP2) transcription factor gene BD1. Based on the similarities in mutant phenotypes bfl1 is likely to be an allele of the previously reported frizzy panicle locus.
14504241	Unidirectional cross-incompatibility was detected in advanced generations of backcrossing between wild (Oryza rufipogon) and cultivated (O. sativa) rice strains. The near-isogenic line (NIL) of T65wx (Japonica type) carrying an alien segment of chromosome 6 from a wild strain gave a reduced seed setting only when crossed with T65wx as the male. Cytological observations showed that abortion of hybrid seeds occurred as a consequence of a failure of early endosperm development followed by abnormalities in embryo development. The genetic basis of cross-incompatibility reactions in the female and male was investigated by testcrosses using recombinant inbred lines (RILs) that were established through dissecting the introgressed segments of wild and cultivated (Indica type) strains. The results revealed that the cross-incompatibility reaction was controlled by Cif in the female and by cim in the male. When the female plant with Cif was crossed with the male plant with cim, a failure of early endosperm development was observed in the hybrid zygotes. Among cultivars of O. sativa, cim was distributed predominantly in the Japonica type but not in the Indica type. In addition, a dominant suppressor, Su-Cif, which changes the reaction in the female from incompatible to compatible was proposed to present near the centromere of chromosome 6 of the Indica type. Further, the death of young F(1) zygotes was controlled by the parental genotypes rather than by the genotype of the hybrid zygote itself since all three genes acted sporophytically, which strongly suggests an involvement of parent-of-origin effects. We discuss the results in relation to the origin of a crossing barrier as well as their maintenance within the primary gene pool.
14504243	We report a genetic recombination map for Sorghum of 2512 loci spaced at average 0.4 cM (approximately 300 kb) intervals based on 2050 RFLP probes, including 865 heterologous probes that foster comparative genomics of Saccharum (sugarcane), Zea (maize), Oryza (rice), Pennisetum (millet, buffelgrass), the Triticeae (wheat, barley, oat, rye), and Arabidopsis. Mapped loci identify 61.5% of the recombination events in this progeny set and reveal strong positive crossover interference acting across intervals of </=50 cM. Significant variations in DNA marker density are related to possible centromeric regions and to probable chromosome structural rearrangements between Sorghum bicolor and S. propinquum, but not to variation in levels of intraspecific allelic richness. While cDNA and genomic clones are similarly distributed across the genome, SSR-containing clones show different abundance patterns. Rapidly evolving hypomethylated DNA may contribute to intraspecific genomic differentiation. Nonrandom distribution patterns of multiple loci detected by 357 probes suggest ancient chromosomal duplication followed by extensive rearrangement and gene loss. Exemplifying the value of these data for comparative genomics, we support and extend prior findings regarding maize-sorghum synteny-in particular, 45% of comparative loci fall outside the inferred colinear/syntenic regions, suggesting that many small rearrangements have occurred since maize-sorghum divergence. These genetically anchored sequence-tagged sites will foster many structural, functional and evolutionary genomic studies in major food, feed, and biomass crops.
14504297	Carotene desaturation, an essential step in the biosynthesis of coloured carotenoids, has received much attention (1) as a target of bleaching herbicide action, (2) as a determinant of geometric isomer states of carotenoids and their metabolites, and (3) as a key modulator of accumulation and structural variability of carotenoids. Having previously isolated and functionally characterized the cDNA encoding the first enzyme in maize carotene desaturation, phytoene desaturase (PDS), the isolation and functional characterization of the second desaturase, a maize endosperm cDNA (2265 bp) encoding zetacarotene (zeta-carotene) desaturase (ZDS) is reported here. Functional analysis of the concerted actions of maize PDS and ZDS ex situ showed these enzymes to mediate a poly-Z desaturation pathway to the predominate geometric isomer 7,9,7',9'-tetra-Z-lycopene (poly-Z-lycopene or prolycopene), and not the all-trans substrate required of the downstream lycopene cyclase enzymes. This finding suggests a rate-controlling isomerase associated with the carotene desaturases as a corollary of a default poly-Z carotenoid biosynthetic pathway active in planta for maize. Comparative gene analysis between maize and rice revealed that genes encoding PDS and ZDS are single copy; the Zds cDNA characterized here was mapped to maize chromosome 7S and vp9 is suggested as a candidate locus for the structural gene while y9 is ruled out. Classical genetic resources were used to dissect the desaturation steps further and hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase was linked to the vp2 locus, narrowing candidate loci for an obligate isomerase in maize to only a few. Since the first functional analysis of the paired carotene desaturases for a cereal crop is reported here, the implications for the genetic modification of the pro-vitamin A content in cereal crops such as rice and maize, are discussed.
14504303	This study demonstrated that, in rice seedlings, genotypic difference in tolerance to anoxia only occurred when anoxia was imposed at imbibition, but not at 3 d after imbibition. When seeds were imbibed and grown in anoxia, IR22 (anoxia-'intolerant') grew much slower and had lower soluble sugar concentrations in coleoptiles and seeds than Amaroo (anoxia-'tolerant'), while Calrose was intermediate. After 3 d in anoxia, the sugar concentrations in embryos and endosperms of anoxic seedlings were nearly 4-fold lower in IR22 than in Amaroo. Sugar deficit in the embryo of IR22 is presumably due to the limitation of sugar mobilization rather than the capacity of transport as shown by similar sugar accumulation ratios of 1.8 between embryo and endosperm in IR22 and Amaroo at 3 d in anoxia. With 20 mol m-3 exogenous glucose, coleoptile extension and fresh weight increments in anoxic seedlings of IR22 were much closer to those in the two other genotypes, nevertheless protein concentration remained lowest on a fresh weight basis in the coleoptiles of IR22; indicating that protein synthesis has a lower priority for energy apportionment during anoxia than processes crucial to coleoptile extension. In contrast to these responses to anoxia imposed at imbibition, IR22 had nearly the same high tolerance to anoxia as Calrose and Amaroo, when anoxia was imposed on seedlings subsequent to 48 h aeration followed by 16 h hypoxic pretreatment. In fact, coleoptiles of anoxic IR22 had higher sugar concentrations and grew faster than Calrose, and exogenous glucose had no effect on the coleoptile extension of IR22. Excised coleoptile tips of IR22 and Amaroo with exogenous glucose had similar rates of ethanol production and were equally tolerant to anoxia. In conclusion, much of the anoxia 'intolerance' of IR22 when germinated in anoxia could be attributed to limited substrate availability to the embryo and coleoptile, presumably due to slow starch hydrolysis in the endosperm.
14504746	Insertional mutagenesis provides a rapid way to clone a mutated gene. Transfer DNA (T-DNA) of Agrobacterium tumefaciens has been proven to be a successful tool for gene discovery in Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica). Here, we report the generation of 5,200 independent T-DNA tagged rice lines. The T-DNA insertion pattern in the rice genome was investigated, and an initial database was constructed based on T-DNA flanking sequences amplified from randomly selected T-DNA tagged rice lines using Thermal Asymmetric Interlaced PCR (TAIL-PCR). Of 361 T-DNA flanking sequences, 92 showed long T-DNA integration (T-DNA together with non-T-DNA). Another 55 sequences showed complex integration of T-DNA into the rice genome. Besides direct integration, filler sequences and microhomology (one to several nucleotides of homology) were observed between the T-DNA right border and other portions of the vector pCAMBIA1301 in transgenic rice. Preferential insertion of T-DNA into protein-coding regions of the rice genome was detected. Insertion sites mapped onto rice chromosomes were scattered in the genome. Some phenotypic mutants were observed in the T1 generation of the T-DNA tagged plants. Our mutant population will be useful for studying T-DNA integration patterns and for analyzing gene function in rice.
14505085	Satellite RNA was sought in 51 isolates of Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) representative of the geographical, molecular and pathogenic variability of the virus in Africa. Three-quarters of the isolates from cultivated rice and wild gramineaceous hosts supported a satellite RNA. The prevalence of RYMV isolates that were associated with a satellite differed among regions, being c. 100% in West and Central Africa and c. 36% in East Africa. The RYMV satellite showed a low diversity as only seven of the 220 sequenced positions were variable. One insertion also occurred after serial host passages of the satellite. Two forms of the satellite differed by six substitutions forming three base pairs in one branch of the predicted RNA secondary structure. There was no evidence of intermediates between these two forms, but double-infection occurred. Each form had a specific geographical distribution: one occurred in Central Africa, the other elsewhere in Africa. There was no relation between the occurrence or the forms of the satellite and the phylogeny of the helper virus. The satellite was not involved in symptom modulation or ability to break host-plant resistances to the disease.
14505726	An experiment was conducted in microplots (4 m x 4 m) with two insecticides, phorate and carbofuran at rates of 1.5 and 1.0 kga.i.ha(-1) respectively, to investigate its effect on the population and distribution of bacteria, actinomycetes and fungi as well as the persistence of the insecticidal residues in rhizosphere soils of rice (Oryza sativa L., variety IR-50). Application of the insecticides stimulated the population of bacteria, actinomycetes and fungi in the rhizosphere soils, and the stimulation was more pronounced with phorate as compared to carbofuran. Both the insecticides did not have marked effect on the numbers of Streptomyces and Nocardia in the rhizosphere soils. However, the growth of Bacillus, Escherichia, Flavobacterium, Micromonospora, Penicillium, Aspergillus and Trichoderma with phorate and that of Bacillus, Corynebacterium, Flavobacterium, Aspergillus and Phytophthora with carbofuran were increased. On the other hand, the numbers of Staphylococcus, Micrococcus, Fusarium, Humicola and Rhizopus under phorate and Pseudomonas, Staphylococcus, Micrococcus, Klebsiella, Fusarium, Humicola and Rhizopus under carbofuran were inhibited. Both the insecticides persisted in the rhizosphere soil for a short period of time and the rate of dissipation of carbofuran was higher than that of phorate in the soil depicting the half-life (T1/2) 9.1 and 10.4 days, respectively.
14506628	Whether the intake of high dietary fiber may improve glycemic control in individuals with type 2 diabetes has been controversial. This study was conducted to observe the long-term effects of dietary fiber intake on glucose tolerance and lipid metabolism in rats. Thirty male type 2 diabetic model GK rats were divided randomly into 3 groups. Each group was fed either a barley (high-dietary fiber) diet, rice (low-dietary fiber) diet, or cornstarch (very-low-dietary fiber) diet. The rats were pair-fed for 9 months. The intake of the barley diet significantly improved the area under the plasma glucose concentration time curves, lowered the fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels, and decreased plasma total cholesterol (T Chol), triglycerides (TG), and free fatty acid (FFA) levels. This study demonstrated that long-term intake of barley has beneficial effects on glucose tolerance and lipid metabolism and suggests the intake of unrefined cereal foods should increase as a diet therapy for type 2 diabetes.
14506834	We investigated the effect of three types of plant sterols (4-desmethylsterols, 4,4'-dimethylsterols, and pentacyclic triterpene alcohols) in three forms (free, esterified with FA, or with phenolic acids) on cholesterol absorption. Plant sterol fractions derived from soybean (99% 4-desmethylsterols), rice bran (70% 4,4'-dimethylsterols), or shea nut (89% pentacyclic triterpene alcohols) were fed to male hamsters (n = 20/group) as free sterols or esterified with FA or phenolic acids (cinnamic or ferulic). Cholesterol absorption was measured after 5-8.5 (mean, 7) wk by a dual-isotope technique. Soybean sterol intake significantly reduced cholesterol absorption efficiency (23%) and plasma total cholesterol (11%). Rice bran sterols tended to lower cholesterol absorption efficiency by 7% and plasma total cholesterol by 5%, whereas shea nut sterols had no effect. In hamsters, dietary 4-desmethylsterols were more effective than 4,4'-dimethylsterols in lowering cholesterol absorption and levels of cholesterol in blood. Pentacyclic triterpene alcohols had no effect on the absorption of cholesterol or on its level in blood. Esterification with FA did not impair the ability of 4-desmethylsterols and 4,4'-dimethylsterols to inhibit cholesterol absorption, whereas esterification with phenolic acids reduced this ability. This study supports the use of 4-desmethylsterols, esterified with FA to increase solubility, as the most effective cholesterol-lowering plant sterols in the diet.
14506888	Can commonly-eaten food staple crops be developed that fortify their seeds with essential minerals and vitamins? Can farmers be induced to grow such varieties? If so, would this result in a marked improvement in human nutrition at a lower cost than existing nutrition interventions? An interdisciplinary international effort is underway to breed for mineral- and vitamin-dense varieties of rice, wheat, maize, beans and cassava for release to farmers in developing countries. The biofortification strategy seeks to take advantage of the consistent daily consumption of large amounts of food staples by all family members, including women and children as they are most at risk for micronutrient malnutrition. As a consequence of the predominance of food staples in the diets of the poor, this strategy implicitly targets low-income households. After the one-time investment is made to develop seeds that fortify themselves, recurrent costs are low and germplasm may be shared internationally. It is this multiplier aspect of plant breeding across time and distance that makes it so cost-effective. Once in place, the biofortified crop system is highly sustainable. Nutritionally-improved varieties will continue to be grown and consumed year after year, even if government attention and international funding for micronutrient issues fades. Biofortification provides a truly feasible means of reaching malnourished populations in relatively remote rural areas, delivering naturally-fortified foods to population groups with limited access to commercially-marketed fortified foods that are more readily available in urban areas. Biofortification and commercial fortification are, therefore, highly complementary. Breeding for higher trace mineral density in seeds will not incur a yield penalty. Mineral-packed seeds sell themselves to farmers because, as recent research has shown, these trace minerals are essential in helping plants resist disease and other environmental stresses. More seedlings survive and initial growth is more rapid. Ultimately, yields are higher, particularly in trace mineral-'deficient' soils in arid regions.
14507377	Trimeric G-proteins transmit extracellular signals to various downstream effectors (e.g. MAP kinases) in eukaryotes. In the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea, the Pmk1 MAP kinase is essential for appressorium formation and infectious growth. The pmk1 deletion mutant fails to form appressoria but still responds to exogenous cAMP for tip deformation. Since gene disruption mutants of three Galpha subunits still form appressoria and are phenotypically different from pmk1 mutants, it is likely that the Pmk1 pathway is activated by Gbeta in M. grisea. In this study, we isolated and characterized the MGB1 gene that encodes the G subunit in M. grisea. Mutants disrupted in MGB1 were reduced in conidiation. Conidia from mgb1 mutants were defective in appressorium formation and failed to penetrate or grow invasively on rice leaves. Exogenous cAMP induced appressorium formation in mgb1 mutants, but these appressoria were abnormal in shape and could not penetrate. The intracellular cAMP level was reduced in mgb1 mutants and the defects in conidiation and hyphal growth were partially suppressed with 1 mM cAMP. Transformants expressing multiple copies of MGB1 were able to form appressoria on hydrophilic surfaces. Our results suggest that MGB1 may be involved in the cAMP signalling for regulating conidiation, surface recognition and appressorium formation. The Pmk1 pathway may be the downstream target of MGB1 for regulating penetration and infectious hyphae growth in M. grisea.
14507418	Taurine (Tau) deficiencies have been associated with the feeding of commercial lamb-meal and rice diets to dogs. We hypothesized that the poor digestibility of some lamb-meals may limit sulphur amino acids availability for Tau synthesis and/or increase of Tau degradation in the gut. Growing dogs were fed either a lamb-meal-based (Diet A) or poultry by-product-based (Diet B) commercial diet. Plasma, whole blood and urinary Tau were measured for 22 weeks. Plasma and whole blood Tau concentrations were similar between the groups throughout the study. Urinary excretion of Tau in dogs fed diet A was 3.2 times greater than that from dogs fed Diet B, suggesting greater renal reabsorption and the need for conservation of Tau in the Diet A group. Food restriction affected Tau status as indicted by a positive correlation of food intake and urinary Tau. Dogs fed Diet A were given antibiotics to inhibit bacterial activity in the gut. Increases in breath hydrogen, indicative of increased bacterial activity, correlated negatively with urinary Tau. Urinary Tau increased by 54% when methionine (Met) was supplemented to Diet A, supporting the suggestion of a low bioavailability of sulphur amino acids and/or an increased fecal loss of Tau in dogs consuming Diet A.
14507459	Aluminum (Al) is highly toxic to plant growth. The toxicity is characterized by rapid inhibition of root elongation. However, some plant species and cultivars have evolved some mechanisms for detoxifying Al both internally and externally. In this review, the recent progress made in the research of external detoxification of Al is described. Accumulating evidence has shown that organic acids play an important role in the detoxification of Al. Some plant species and cultivars respond to Al by secreting citrate, malate or oxalate from the roots. Recently, the anion channel of malate and citrate in the plasma membrane has been characterized and a gene encoding the malate channel has been cloned. The metabolism of organic acids seems to be poorly correlated with the Al-induced secretion of organic acid anions. A number of QTLs (quantitative trait loci) for Al resistance have been identified in rice, Arabidopsis, and other species. Transgenic plants with enhanced resistance to Al have also been reported, but introduction of multiple genes may be required to gain high Al resistance in future.
14508010	RNAs that code for the major rice storage proteins are localized to specific subdomains of the cortical endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in developing endosperm. Prolamine RNAs are localized to the ER and delimit the prolamine intracisternal inclusion granules (PB-ER), whereas glutelin RNAs are targeted to the cisternal ER. To study the transport of prolamine RNAs to the surface of the prolamine protein bodies in living endosperm cells, we adapted a two-gene system consisting of green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to the viral RNA binding protein MS2 and a hybrid prolamine RNA containing tandem MS2 RNA binding sites. Using laser scanning confocal microscopy, we show that the GFP-labeled prolamine RNAs are transported as particles that move at an average speed of 0.3 to 0.4 microm/s. These prolamine RNA transport particles generally move unidirectionally in a stop-and-go manner, although nonlinear bidirectional, restricted, and nearly random movement patterns also were observed. Transport is dependent on intact microfilaments, because particle movement is inhibited rapidly by the actin filament-disrupting drugs cytochalasin D and latrunculin B. Direct evidence was obtained that these prolamine RNA-containing particles are transported to the prolamine protein bodies. The significance of these results with regard to protein synthesis in plants is discussed.
14508674	A process taking advantages of combined solid-state and submerged cultivation of Monascus for red pigment production and integration of a product removal unit was developed. The solid-state cultivation was carried out in a 5 l fermentor, with rice being used not only as the substrate but also the support for Monascus. The inclusion of rice submergence and integration of product separation were achieved by intermittently rinsing the rice with monosodium glutamate (MSG) solutions every 12 h followed by an adsorptive extraction of the red pigment dissolved in the rinsing solution. With this new process, the Monascus red pigment production was increased by 24% as compared with that by the plain fixed-bed cultivation.
14510855	Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of PCR-amplified nitrogenase gene (nifH) fragments is a rapid technique for profiling of diazotrophic microbial communities without the necessity of cultures for study. Here, we examined the impact of N-fertilization, plant genotype and environmental conditions on diazotrophic microbial populations in association with roots of rice (Oryza species) by T-RFLP community profiling and found marked effects on the composition of the microbial community. We found a rapid change of the diazotrophic population structure within 15 days after application of nitrogen fertilizer and a strong effect of environmental conditions and plant genotype. Control experiments revealed that phylogenetically distantly related nifH genes were proportionately amplified, and that signal strength reflected the relative abundance of nifH genes in the sample within a 10-fold range of template concentrations. These results clearly demonstrated that our T-RFLP method was suitable to reflect compositional differences in the diazotrophic community in a semiquantitative manner and that the diazotrophic rhizosphere communities of rice are not static but presumably rather highly dynamic.
14511908	In response to an elicitor, the Ca2+-dependent fluorescence (Fluo-3-Ca2+) increased transiently and then the expression of the chitinase gene (chi) followed. The gene expression was detected by Northern analysis. The deletion of Ca2+ from the medium or the addition of a Ca2+ channel blocker, verapamil, to the medium caused no gene expression, which supported the key role of Ca2+ in the signaling towards the chi expression. Then the Ca2+-injection experiment was done in order to investigate if it could trigger the chi expression. The plasmid pCHI-GFP (promoter: chi, reporter: green fluorescent protein gene (gfp)) was injected into the single-protoplasts, then after 1 day of incubation at 25 degrees C, 100 microM CaCl2 was injected into the same cells. After successive incubation for 1 day, 41 out of 85 cells showed the gene expression. The injection of 100 microM MgCl2, however, caused no gene expression. Therefore, Ca2+ could induce the chi of rice in the absence of the elicitor stimulus.
14513216	The objective of this study was to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with grain quality in rice. Two hundred eighty-five BC(2)F(2)families developed from an interspecific cross between cv IR64 and Oryza rufipogon (IRGC 105491) were evaluated for 14 seed quality traits. A total of 165 markers consisting of 131 single sequence repeats and 34 restriction fragment length polymorphism markers were used to create a genetic linkage map spanning the 12 rice chromosomes. Twenty-three independent QTLs were identified using single point analysis, interval mapping, and composite interval mapping. These loci consisted of one QTL for filled rough/total rough rice ratio, two for grain density, one for percentage of de-husked rice grains, two for percentage of green rice grains, three for percentage of damaged-yellow rice grains, two for percentage of red rice grains, one for milled rice recovery, three for head rice recovery, four for broken rice grains, two for crushed rice grains, one for amylose content, and one for gel consistency. For most of the QTLs identified in this study, the O. rufipogon-derived allele contributed an undesirable effect. For amylose content and gel consistency, the O. rufipogon allele may be useful in an IR64 background, depending on the cultural preferences of the consumer. Careful selection against the regions associated with negative effects will be required to avoid unwanted grain quality characteristics during the development of improved varieties for yield and yield components using introgressions from O. rufipogon.
14513218	An F2 and an equivalent F3 population derived from a cross between a high salt-tolerance indica variety, Nona Bokra, and a susceptible elite japonica variety, Koshihikari, were produced. We performed QTL mapping for physiological traits related to rice salt-tolerance. Three QTLs for survival days of seedlings (SDSs) under salt stress were detected on chromosomes 1, 6 and 7, respectively, and explained 13.9% to 18.0% of the total phenotypic variance. Based on the correlations between SDSs and other physiological traits, it was considered that damage of leaves was attributed to accumulation of Na+ in the shoot by transport of Na+ from the root to the shoot in external high concentration. We found eight QTLs including three for three traits of the shoots, and five for four traits of the roots at five chromosomal regions, controlled complex physiological traits related to rice salt-tolerance under salt stress. Of these QTLs, the two major QTLs with the very large effect, qSNC-7 for shoot Na+ concentration and qSKC-1 for shoot K+ concentration, explained 48.5% and 40.1% of the total phenotypic variance, respectively. The QTLs detected between the shoots and the roots almost did not share the same map locations, suggesting that the genes controlling the transport of Na+ and K+ between the shoots and the roots may be different.
14513380	Two genomic clones (OsMET1-1, AF 462029 and OsMET1-2, TPA BK001405), each encoding a cytosine-5 DNA methyltransferase (MTase), were isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.) BAC libraries. OsMET1-1 has an open reading frame of 4,566 nucleotides with 12 exons and 11 introns while OsMET1-2 has an open reading frame of 4,491 nucleotides with 11 exons and 10 introns. Although OsMET1-1 and OsMET1-2 have high sequence similarity overall, they share only 24% identity in exon 1, and intron 3 of OsMET1-1 is absent from OsMET1-2. As for other eukaryotic DNA MTases of the Dnmt1/MET l class, the derived amino acid sequences of OsMET1-1 and OsMET1-2 suggest that they are comprised of two-thirds regulatory domain and one-third catalytic domain. Most functional domains identified for other MTases were present in the rice MET1 sequences. Amino acid sequence comparison indicated high similarity (56-75% identity) of rice MET1 proteins to other plant MET1 sequences but limited similarity (approx. 24% identity) to animal Dnmt1 proteins. Genomic blot and database analysis indicated the presence of a single copy of OsMET1-1 (on chromosome 3) and single copy of OsMET1-2 (on chromosome 7). Ribonuclease protection assays revealed expression of both OsMET1-1 and OsMET1-2 in highly dividing cells, but the steady-state level of OsMET1-2 was 7- to 12-fold higher than that for OsMET1-1 in callus, root and inflorescence. The functional involvement of the rice DNA MTases in gene silencing was investigated using an RNAi strategy. Inverted repeat constructs of either the N- or C-terminal regions of OsMET1-1 were supertransformed into calli derived from a rice line bearing a silenced 35S-uidA-nos transgene. Restoration of uidA expression in the bombarded calli was consistent with the inactivation of maintenance methylation and with previous evidence for the involvement of methylation in silencing of this line.
1451351	To test the hypothesis that bone metastasis is related to the rate of bone remodeling, we have examined the effect of enhanced bone resorption on the growth of spontaneously metastatic Walker 256 (W256) cancer cells. Bone resorption was stimulated in male Fischer rats by injecting Rice H-500 Leydig tumor cells subcutaneously. The resorptive response of the skeleton was confirmed in a pilot study by evaluating parameters of bone morphometry after 4, 7 and 10 days of tumor burden. The distal femoral epiphyses had 35 +/- 10% more osteoclast surface, 83 +/- 11% less osteoblast surface, and 46 +/- 5% less trabecular bone after 10 days of tumor burden, compared to non-tumor-bearing controls. To evaluate the effect of Leydig tumor-induced bone resorption on the growth response of W256 cells, 20 rats were injected intramuscularly with 2 x 10(7) W256 cells, and 20 rats were vehicle-injected. Two days later, 10 rats from each group were injected subcutaneously with Leydig tumor cells. Twelve days after W256/vehicle injection, rats were injected with [3H]thymidine, killed 2 h later, and their femurs, liver, lungs and kidneys were processed for histology. In rats injected with Leydig tumor cells only, enhanced bone resorption was confirmed by a 40 +/- 4% increase in serum calcium concentration, a 48 +/- 8% decrease in trabecular bone content, and a 72 +/- 15% decrease in osteoblast surface, compared with non-tumor-bearing rats. Metastatic W256 cells adjacent to trabecular bone in Leydig tumor-bearing rats had a 56 +/- 18% greater relative [3H]thymidine labeling index (TdR) than did W256 cells in the bones of non-Leydig tumor-bearing rats. The TdRs of W256 cells in the liver, lungs, and kidneys were not affected by Leydig tumor burden. In this model, enhanced bone resorption was associated with the selective growth promotion of metastatic W256 cells in bone, suggesting the existence of a bone-derived factor which is mitogenic to W256 cells.
1451475
14518419	We treated a patient with inoperable advanced gastric cancer and malignant ascites by combination chemotherapy of TS-1 and biweekly paclitaxel (TXL). After two courses the ascites had disappeared and the primary tumor was reduced. TS-1 (80 mg/body/day) was administered for 21 days followed by 7 days rest and TXL (100 mg/body) was administered on days 1 and 14 as one course. The patient could not eat at the time of hospitalization, but at the time of the second course he could eat a full serving of rice porridge. Grade 2 anemia and leukopenia were the only adverse reactions observed; no major adverse reactions were observed. These results suggest that with TS-1 and TXL combination chemotherapy, patients with advanced gastric cancer can achieve a marked improvement in quality of life.
14519768	In higher plants, the main elements of the fundamental body plan, the apical-basal and radial patterns, are established during embryogenesis. We have isolated several globular embryo (gle) mutants of rice that fail to develop any embryonic organs. We expected that these gle mutants might include mutants defective in their radial pattern formation ability. We developed two markers specifically staining the L2 and L3 layers (OsSCR and OsPNH1, respectively) and characterized the gle mutants by using these markers in addition to the already developed markers Roc1 (marker for the L1 layer), Ramy1A (marker of the L1 layer of the epithelium), and OSH1 (marker of the apical region). One of the gle mutants, gle4, expressed Roc1 and Ramy1A at the normal positions, but other markers exhibited an abnormal expression pattern; that is, both OsPNH1 and OsSCR were expressed in the central region of the embryo and OSH1 expression was not observed. Calli from the gle4 epithelium regenerated plants with abnormal morphologies. These results indicate that the GLE4 gene is involved in radial pattern formation during rice embryogenesis to differentiate the L2 and L3 layers, but is not involved in the establishment of the L1 layer or in the formation of embryonic organs.
14519777	The N-use efficiency for photosynthesis was higher in a C(4) plant, maize, than in a C(3) plant, rice, including rbcS antisense rice with optimal ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) content for CO(2)-saturated photosynthesis, even when photosynthesis was measured under saturating CO(2) conditions. The N cost for the C(4) cycle enzymes in maize was not large, and the lower amount of Rubisco allowed a greater N investment in the thylakoid components. This greater content of the thylakoid components as well as the CO(2) concentrating mechanism may support higher N-use efficiency for photosynthesis in maize.
14519802	Corn-masa flour flat bread tortillas are the main staple of Mexican and Central American populations. Due to high concentrations of inhibitors of iron absorption, the bioavailability from this matrix is unknown. We wanted to determine the most suitable fortificant that would efficaciously improve iron bioavailability. In tortillas prepared with commercial precooked, lime-treated, corn-masa flour, we examined the in vitro solubility of the following forms of iron: native iron with and without Na2EDTA, elemental reduced iron plus Na2EDTA, ferrous fumarate with and without Na2EDTA, bisglycine iron, ferrous sulfate and NaFeEDTA. We also examined the in vivo bioavailability in humans with double radioiron erythrocyte incorporation of ferrous fumarate with and without Na2EDTA, bisglycine iron, NaFeEDTA and native iron plus Na2EDTA, beans and rice. In vitro, solubility ranged from 1% in iron forms without Na2EDTA to 19.4% for NaFeEDTA. Forms of iron with Na2EDTA had intermediate values. In vivo radioiron studies showed that iron forms without Na2EDTA also had low bioavailability (< or =1%). NaFeEDTA had the highest bioavailability (5.3%). The bioavailability of all iron forms improved significantly when tested with Na2EDTA (<0.05). Adding Na2EDTA to ferrous fumarate increased bioavailability from 0.87% to 2.9% (P < 0.001). We conclude that NaFeEDTA is the form of iron best absorbed, but alternatively, ferrous fumarate plus Na2EDTA comprises a feasible option as a fortificant.
14519996	The root elongation activity of unsaturated oligomeric uronates from alginate on carrot and rice plants was investigated. Unsaturated oligomeric uronates were prepared by digesting polymannuronate (PM) and polyguluronate (PG) with an alginate lyase purified from Pseudoalteromonas sp. strain No. 272. The root elongation activity was measured by elongation in length of carrot- and rice-excised root incubated in the B5-medium containing 0.8% agar in the dark. PM and PG showed no activity, but the enzymatic digestion mixtures of PG had promoting activity on roots of both plants at a final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. The maximum activity was obtained at 0.75 mg/ml. The dependence of activity on degree of polymerization of the uronates was tested and the pentamer was most active, but the mechanism of the action of unsaturated uronates on the cells remains to be solved.
14523246	Prolamine and glutelin RNAs are localized to two subdomains of the cortical endoplasmic reticulum (ER), the protein body ER and the cisternal ER, in developing rice seeds. The addition of nearly full-length prolamine sequences at the 3' untranslated region of a reporter RNA redirects its localization from the cisternal ER to the protein body ER. Deletion analysis of prolamine RNA sequences indicates the presence of two partially redundant cis elements required for protein body ER targeting. The addition of glutelin 3' untranslated region to protein body ER cis sequences, however, redirects RNA localization to the cisternal ER. These results indicate that there are at least two regulated RNA transport pathways as well as a constitutive pathway to the cortical ER.
14523523	An amaranth (Amaranthus hypochondriacus) 11S globulin cDNA, encoding one of the most important storage proteins (amarantin) of the seed, with a high content of essential amino acids, was used in the transformation of CIMMYT tropical maize genotype. Constructs contained the amarantin cDNA under the control of a tissue-specific promoter from rice glutelin-1 (osGT1) or a constitutive (CaMV 35S) promoter with and without the first maize alcohol dehydrogenase intron (AdH). Southern-blot analysis confirmed the integration of the amarantin cDNA, and copy number ranged from one to more than ten copies per maize genome. Western-blot and ultracentrifugation analyses of transgenic maize indicate that the expressed recombinant amarantin precursors were processed into the mature form, and accumulated stably in maize endosperm. Total protein and some essential amino acids of the best expressing maize augmented 32% and 8-44%, respectively, compared to non-transformed samples. The soluble expressed proteins were susceptible to digestion by simulated gastric and intestinal fluids, and it is suggested that they show no allergenic activity. These findings demonstrate the feasibility of using genetic engineering to improve the amino acid composition of grain crops.
14523618	To understand the cell cycle process in plants, we searched for proteins that quantitatively change during the cell cycle in suspension-cultured rice (Oryza sativa L.) cells. The proteins were analyzed by a two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis image-analysis system. We detected 11 proteins that quantitatively changed during the cell cycle, among which beta-tubulins and a calreticulin-like protein were identified. The amounts of beta-tubulin proteins were low in the M phase and high in the G1 phase. In contrast, mRNAs for two of the three types of beta-tubulin were high in the M phase of the cell cycle. The addition of protease inhibitors MG132 or E64d to the cells decreased the beta-tubulin proteins during 24 h, suggesting that beta-tubulin proteins are degraded in vivo by proteases other than those whose activities are inhibited by MG132 or E64d.
1452530	Eighty Six adult males presented with central cyanosis and constitutional symptoms 2 to 4 hours following ingestion of meal from a common kitchen. On spectrometry methaemoglobin was detected. All recovered fully in 12 to 36 hours on symptomatic treatment. Epidemiological study and toxicological examination revealed that metanil yellow used for colouring the rice was responsible.
14526071	The success of the green revolution largely resulted from the creation of dwarf cultivars of wheat and rice, which had much higher yields than conventional crops. Characterization of these dwarf cultivars showed that the mutant genes were involved in either the synthesis or signaling of gibberellin, a plant growth hormone. In his Perspective, Salamini highlights new work (Multani et al.) that identifies the cause of dwarfism in agronomically important varieties of maize and sorghum. In these cases, dwarfism is caused by defective transport of another growth hormone called auxin.
14526120	We have isolated a starch mutant that was deficient in starch-branching enzyme I (BEI) from the endosperm mutant stocks of rice (Oryza sativa) induced by the treatment of fertilized egg cells with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. The deficiency of BEI in this mutant was controlled by a single recessive gene, tentatively designated as starch-branching enzyme mutant 1 (sbe1). The mutant endosperm exhibited the normal phenotype and contained the same amount of starch as the wild type. However, the mutation apparently altered the fine structure of amylopectin. The mutant amylopectin was characterized by significant decrease in both long chains with degree of polymerization (DP) > or = 37 and short chains with DP 12 to 21, marked increase in short chains with DP < or = 10 (A chains), and slight increase in intermediate chains with DP 24 to 34, suggesting that BEI specifically synthesizes B1 and B2-3 chains. The endosperm starch from the sbe1 mutant had a lower onset concentration for urea gelatinization and a lower onset temperature for thermo-gelatinization compared with the wild type, indicating that the genetic modification of amylopectin fine structure is responsible for changes in physicochemical properties of sbe1 starch.
14527276	The blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea causes a serious disease on a wide variety of grasses including rice, wheat, and barley. Rice blast is the most serious disease of cultivated rice and therefore poses a threat to the world's most important food security crop. Here, I review recent progress toward understanding the molecular biology of plant infection by M. grisea, which involves development of a specialized cell, the appressorium. This dome-shaped cell generates enormous turgor pressure and physical force, allowing the fungus to breach the host cuticle and invade plant tissue. The review also considers the role of avirulence genes in M. grisea and the mechanisms by which resistant rice cultivars are able to perceive the fungus and defend themselves. Finally, the likely mechanisms that promote genetic diversity in M. grisea and our current understanding of the population structure of the blast fungus are evaluated.
14527391	Rice dwarf virus (RDV), the causal agent of rice dwarf disease, is a member of the genus Phytoreovirus in the family Reoviridae. RDV is a double-shelled virus with a molecular mass of approximately 70 million Dalton. This virus is widely prevalent and is one of the viruses that cause the most economic damage in many Asian countries. The atomic structure of RDV was determined at 3.5 A resolution by X-ray crystallography. The double-shelled structure consists of two different proteins, the core protein P3 and the outer shell protein P8. The atomic structure shows structural and electrostatic complementarities between both homologous (P3-P3 and P8-P8) and heterologous (P3-P8) interactions, as well as overall conformational changes found in P3-P3 dimer caused by the insertion of amino-terminal loop regions of one of the P3 protein into the other. These interactions suggest how the 900 protein components are built into a higher-ordered virus core structure.
14527713	The SET domains are conserved amino acid sequences present in chromosomal proteins that contribute to the epigenetic control of gene expression by altering regional organization of the chromatin structure. The SET domain proteins are divided into four subgroups as categorized by their Drosophila members; enhancer of zeste (E(Z)), trithorax (TRX), absent small or homeotic 1 (ASH1) and supressor of variegation (SU(VAR)3-9). Homologs of all four classes have been characterized in yeast, mammals and plants. We report here the isolation and characterization of rice (Oryza sativa L. subspecies indica) cDNA, OsiEZ1, as a monocot member of this family. The OsiEZ1 cDNA is 3133 bp long with an ORF of 2799 bp, and the predicted amino acid sequence (895 residues) corresponds to a protein of ca. 98 kDa. All the characteristic domains known to be conserved in E(Z) homologs (subgroup I) of SET domain containing proteins are present in OsiEZ1. In the rice genome, a 7499 bp long OsiEZ1 sequence is split into 17 exons interrupted by 16 introns. Southern analysis indicates that OsiEZ1 is represented as single copy in the rice genome. Expression studies revealed that the OsiEZ1 transcript level was highest in rice flowers, almost undetectable in developing seeds of 1-2 days post-fertilization but increased significantly in young seeds of 3-5 days post-fertilization. The OsiEZ1 transcript was barely detectable in mature zygotic embryos, but its levels were significantly higher in callus derived from rice scutellum, somatic embryos and young seedlings. The OsiEZ1/GUS recombinant protein was confined to the nucleus in living cells of particle-bombarded onion peels. The expression of OsiEZ1 complemented a set1Delta Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant that is impaired in telomeric silencing. We suggest that the nuclear-localized OsiEZ1 has a role in regulating various aspects of plant development, and this control is most likely brought about by repressing the activity of downstream regulatory genes.
14527718	Flap endonuclease-1 (FEN-1) is an important enzyme involved in DNA replication and repair. Previously, we isolated and characterized a complementary DNA (cDNA) from rice (Oryza sativa) encoding a protein which shows homology with the eukaryotic flap endonuclease-1 (FEN-1). In this report, we found that rice (O. sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) possessed two FEN-1 homologues designated as OsFEN-1a and OsFEN-1b. The OsFEN-1a and OsFEN-1b genes were mapped to chromosome 5 and 3, respectively. Both genes contained 17 exons and 16 introns. Alignment of OsFEN-1a protein with OsFEN-1b protein showed a high degree of sequence similarity, particularly around the N and I domains. Northern hybridization and in situ hybridization analysis demonstrated preferential expression of OsFEN-1a and OsFEN-1b in proliferating tissues such as the shoot apical meristem or young leaves. The levels of OsFEN-1a and OsFEN-1b expression were significantly reduced when cell proliferation was temporarily halted by the removal of sucrose from the growth medium. When the growth-halted cells began to regrow following the addition of sucrose to the medium, both OsFEN-1a and OsFEN-1b were again expressed at high level. These results suggested that OsFEN-1a and OsFEN-1b are required for cell proliferation. Functional complementation assay suggested that OsFEN-1a cDNA had the ability to complement Saccharomyces cerevisiae rad27 null mutant. On the other hand, OsFEN-1b cDNA could not complement the rad27 mutant. The roles of OsFEN-1a and OsFEN-1b in plant DNA replication and repair are discussed.
14527726	The seminal roots of an upland rice variety, Azucena, showed accelerated elongation in response to a water deficit. The elongation of cortical cells in the elongation zone is rapidly stimulated within 16 h by the water deficit. cDNA-AFLP analysis was used to examine gene expression in seminal root tips at four time points (4, 16, 48 and 72 h) during the water deficit. One hundred and six unique genes induced by the water deficit were obtained. The expression patterns of these genes were confirmed by Northern blot analysis based on 21 selected genes representing different patterns. The 106 upregulated genes were composed of 60 genes of known function, 28 genes of unknown function and 18 novel genes. Sixty genes of known functions were involved in transport facilitation, metabolism and energy, stress- and defense-related proteins, cellular organization and cell-wall biogenesis, signal transduction, expression regulator and transposable element, suggesting that seminal root tips undergo a complex adaptive process in response to the water deficit. Expression of 22 genes reached a maximum within 16 h of water deficit treatment. These included aquaporin (PIP2a), 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED1) and a negative regulator of gibberellin signal transduction (SPY); eight other genes participated in cell wall loosening or vesicle traffic.
14528391	Chemically unaltered melanosomes from black hair were isolated using a mild enzymatic procedure reported by Novellino et al. involving sequential treatment of a homogenized hair sample with different protease enzymes. Time-dependent fluorescence studies show, under identical conditions, that the rate of bleaching upon NH3/H2O2 treatment of hair melanosomes is twice that of Sepia melanosomes. The structure and morphology of hair melanosomes are compared to Sepia eumelanin using ESEM and TEM imaging studies. Black hair melanosomes are aggregates of rice-shaped ellipsoidal particles (0.8-1.0 microm in length and 0.2-0.6 microm in width) surrounded by an amorphous material suspected to be made of non-proteinacious materials. Sepia eumelanin aggregates are larger (2-5 microm) particles with a "doughnut" shape comprised of 100-150-nm spherical particles. Time-dependent TEM imaging studies of ammonia-treated (pH 10) hair melanosomes showed an initial breakdown of melanosomal aggregates followed by rupture of the melanosomal membrane, releasing melanin nanoparticles and leaving a ghost membrane behind. After prolonged treatment with aqueous NH3, a total loss of characteristic melanosome morphology was observed leading to an amorphous material. By contrast, Sepia melanosomes under identical conditions of ammonia treatment did not show such changes, probably due to different surface properties and aggregation behavior. Sodium hydroxide or sodium carbonate at identical pH did not show similar changes to ammonia, suggesting that the changes are not merely due to alkaline pH, but, rather, are specific to ammonia. Co-treatment with ammonia and peroxide induced a faster disintegration of the melanosomes, resulting in a complete dissolution and discoloration of melanin in 30 minutes. The data suggest that ammonia helps to release melanin nanoparticles out of melanosomes, making them more susceptible to oxidative attack by H2O2.
14529188	In rice paddy soils an active cycling of sulfur compounds takes place. To elucidate the diversity of thiosulfate-oxidizing bacteria these organisms were enriched from bulk soil and rice roots by the most probable number method in liquid medium. From the MPN enrichment cultures 21 bacterial strains were isolated on solid mineral medium, and could be further shown to produce sulfate from thiosulfate. These strains were characterized by 16S rDNA analyses. The isolates were affiliated to seven different phylogenetic groups within the alpha- and beta-subclass of Proteobacteria. Two of these phylotypes were already described as S-oxidizers in this environment (Xanthobacter sp. and Bosea sp. related strains), but five groups represented new S-oxidizers in rice field soil. These isolates were closely related to Mesorhizobium loti, to Hydrogenophaga sp., to Delftia sp., to Pandoraea sp. or showed sequence similarity to a strain of Achromobacter sp.
14529272	Hundreds of proteins involved in signaling pathways contain a Ca(2+)-dependent membrane-binding motif called the C2-domain. However, no small C2-domain proteins consisting of a single C2-domain have been reported in animal cells. We have isolated two cDNA clones, OsERG1a and OsERG1b, that encode two small C2-domain proteins of 156 and 159 amino acids, respectively, from a fungal elicitor-treated rice cDNA library. The clones are believed to have originated from a single gene by alternative splicing. Transcript levels of the OsERG1 gene are dramatically elevated by a fungal elicitor prepared from Magnaporthe grisea or by Ca(2+) ions. The OsERG1 protein produced in Escherichia coli binds to phospholipid vesicles in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner and is translocated to the plasma membrane of plant cells by treatment with either a fungal elicitor or a Ca(2+) ionophore. These results suggest that OsERG1 proteins containing a single C2-domain are involved in plant defense signaling systems.
14530400	The sequences of large insert clones containing genomic DNA that is orthologous to the maize adh1 region were obtained for sorghum, rice, and the adh1-homoeologous region of maize, a remnant of the tetraploid history of the Zea lineage. By using all four genomes, it was possible to describe the nature, timing, and lineages of most of the genic rearrangements that have differentiated this chromosome segment over the last 60 million years. The rice genome has been the most stable, sharing 11 orthologous genes with sorghum and exhibiting only one tandem duplication of a gene in this region. The lineage that gave rise to sorghum and maize acquired a two-gene insertion (containing the adh locus), whereas sorghum received two additional gene insertions after its divergence from a common ancestor with maize. The two homoeologous regions of maize have been particularly unstable, with complete or partial deletion of three genes from one segment and four genes from the other segment. As a result, the region now contains only one duplicated locus compared with the eight original loci that were present in each diploid progenitor. Deletion of these maize genes did not remove both copies of any locus. This study suggests that grass genomes are generally unstable in local genome organization and gene content, but that some lineages are much more unstable than others. Maize, probably because of its polyploid origin, has exhibited extensive gene loss so that it is now approaching a diploid state.
14532021	Lactic acid bacteria exhibiting activity against the gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis were isolated from rice bran. One of the isolates, identified as Enterococcus faecalis RJ-11, exhibited a wide spectrum of growth inhibition with various gram-positive bacteria. A bacteriocin purified from culture fluid, designated enterocin RJ-11, was heat stable and was not sensitive to acid and alkaline conditions, but it was sensitive to several proteolytic enzymes. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis revealed that enterocin RJ-11 had a molecular weight of 5,000 in its monomeric form. The amino acid sequence determined for purified enterocin RJ-11 exhibited high levels of similarity to the sequences of enterocins produced by Enterococcus faecium.
14532707	A new esterase isozyme locus, Est10, with 6 alleles including the null form, has been found in rice by using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Thirty F(2) populations of all possible combinations between 5 different band morphs were studied. The segregation pattern indicated that bands 1, 2, 3, 4, and the null form (0) were allelic with each other. The alleles of Est10 were distributed at different frequencies among different varietal groups of rice and also between cultivated rice and its wild relatives (Oryza rufipogon Griff.). Alleles 1 and 2 were frequently found in Japonica and Indica types, respectively. Allele 3 showed a high frequency in Aus and Boro, both Indica types cultivated in South Asia. Allele 4 was frequent in wild rice O. rufipogon. Judging from the linkage between Est10 and RFLP marker RG220 and isozyme marker Est5, Est10 is located on chromosome 1. The importance of this locus in evolutionary studies of rice is discussed.
14533484	Burkholderia pseudomallei Ara- in rice fields was detected using PCR-based techniques with 16S RNA and flagella gene primer sets. The sensitivity of these PCRs was at least 1 CFU/mL of B. pseudomallei Ara- preincubated into Ashdown's medium for 6 h. B. pseudomallei Ara- DNA from watery soil were more detectable than from dry soil. The distribution of this DNA was mainly found at a depth of 300-600 mm under crop-covered fields, but not detected in the location of soil close to the land surface. The results suggest that PCR based on 16S RNA and flagella gene primer sets can be applied to investigate the presence of B. pseudomallei Ara- in contaminated soil of rice fields.
14533922	This study focused on estimating a methane (CH4) inventory and developing mitigation options in South Korea, and was performed jointly in an integrated national research program on CH4 from rice fields conducted by three National Agricultural Research Institutes, under the Rural Development Administration during 1993-1997. Methane emissions were measured by a closed chamber method, in rice plots at three locations (Suwon, Iksan, and Milyang) with the single rice cropping system. All experimental data from 5 years of study were summarized and used for calculating nation-wide CH4 emissions. Temperature, soil type, cultural practices, water management, organic matter management, and cultivar selection significantly affected the fluctuations of CH4 emissions. The two most promising mitigation options for reducing emissions were altered water management, in particular mid-season aeration by short-term drainage, and improved organic matter management, by promotion of aerobic degradation through composing or soil incorporation. Annual total CH4 emission in Korea changed from 410Gg in 1990 to 339Gg in 2000, due mainly to a decrease in the cultivated area of paddy rice. If we convert annual CH4 emission to Global Warming Potential as CO2 equivalent, it amounts to 7.1 M CO2 t yr(-1) of greenhouse gas emitted to the atmosphere in 2000 from the rice fields in Korea, which is just 5.3% of the annual CO2 emission from the industry and energy sector. More importantly, the balance between CO2 uptake by photosynthesis and CO2 emission is positive (a net sink), so that rice culture actually has net benefits for the global atmospheric carbon issue. Further reductions in emission amounts, by following recommendations in this article, could make these benefits even greater.
14535305	Removal of selenium (Se) from agricultural drainage water is important in protecting wetland wildlife. Three flow-through bioreactor channel systems (BCSs), each with three channels filled with rice (Oryza sativa L.) straw, were set in the laboratory to determine removal of selenate [Se(VI)] (1020 microg L(-1)) from drainage water with a salinity of 10.4 dS m(-1), a pH of 8.1, and a nitrate (NO3-) range of 0 to 100 mg L(-1). Results showed that the rice straw effectively reduced Se(VI) during 122 to 165 d of the experiments. Calculation of Se mass in the three BCSs showed that 89.5 to 91.9% of the input Se(VI) was reduced to red elemental Se [Se(0)], where 96.6 to 98.2% was trapped in the BCSs. Losses of each gram of rice straw were almost equal to the removal of 1.66 mg of Se from the drainage water as a form of red Se(0), indicating that rice straw is a very effective organic source for removing Se(VI) from drainage water.
14535337	Recent field experiments have shown that high chloride (Cl) in irrigation waters can increase soil cadmium (Cd) uptake by crops because of the formation of soluble ion-pair complexes of Cd with Cl in soil solution. The present study was aimed at testing a hypothesis that KCl in granulated PK fertilizers may enhance Cd uptake by crops from Cd-containing P fertilizers because of close contact between Cd and Cl in the same granules. Less effect would be expected if the same granular PK fertilizers were bulk-blended because of separation of Cd and Cl in different granules. A single superphosphate (SSP) containing 32 mg Cd kg(-1) was granulated by the compaction process with KCl at a P to K ratio = 1:1. Granular KCl was also bulk-blended with granular SSP or Cd-free monocalcium phosphate (MCP) at the same P to K ratio. An acid Ultisol (pH 5.2) was treated with PK fertilizers at 400 mg kg(-1) each for P and K. Upland rice (Oryza sativa L.) and soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] were grown to maturity, and signalgrass (Brachiaria decumbens Stapf.) was cut four times during the study. The results showed that the agronomic effectiveness in increasing crop yield was the same with SSP and MCP whether granulated or bulk-blended with KCl. Concentrations of Cd in plant tissue samples of all crops were much lower for MCP than for SSP. In all the plant tissue samples, except grain samples of upland rice, Cd concentrations obtained with granulated (SSP + KCl) were significantly higher than that with bulk-blended (SSP) + (KCl).
14535884	Casein kinases are critical in cell division and differentiation across species. A rice cDNA fragment encoding a putative casein kinase I (CKI) was identified via cDNA macroarray under brassinosteroid (BR) treatment, and a 1939-bp full-length cDNA, OsCKI1, was isolated and found to encode a putative 463-aa protein. RT-PCR and Northern blot analysis indicated that OsCKI1 was constitutively expressed in various rice tissues and upregulated by treatments with BR and abscisic acid (ABA). Enzymatic assay of recombinant OsCKI1 proteins expressed in Escherichia coli showed that the protein was capable of phosphorylating casein. The physiological roles of OsCKI1 were studied through antisense transgenic approaches, and homozygous transgenic plants showed abnormal root development, including fewer lateral and adventitious roots, and shortened primary roots as a result of reduced cell elongation. Treatment of wild-type plants with CKI-7, a specific inhibitor of CKI, also confirmed these functions of OsCKI1. Interestingly, in transgenic and CKI-7-treated plants, exogenously supplied IAA could restore normal root development, and measurement of free IAA content in CKI-deficient primary and adventitious roots revealed altered auxin content, indicating that OsCKI1 is involved in auxin metabolism or that it may affect auxin levels. Transgenic plants were less sensitive than control plants to ABA or BR treatment during germination, suggesting that OsCKI1 may be involved in various hormone-signaling pathways. OsCKI1-GFP fusion studies revealed the localization of OsCKI1 to the nucleus, suggesting a possible involvement in regulation of gene expression. In OsCKI1-deficient plants, differential gene expression was investigated using cDNA chip technology, and results indicated that genes related to signal transduction and hormone metabolism were indeed with altered expression.
14535886	Sekiguchi lesion (sl)-mutant rice infected with Magnaporthe grisea showed increased light-dependent tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) activities. TDC and MAO activities were observed before the penetration of M. grisea to rice cells and maintained high levels even after Sekiguchi lesion formation. Light-dependent expression of TDC gene was observed in leaves inoculated with M. grisea before Sekiguchi lesion formation. Spore germination fluid (SGF) of M. grisea also induced Sekiguchi lesion formation accompanied by increased enzymes activities and tryptamine accumulation. Sekiguchi lesion was also induced by treatments with tryptamine and beta-phenylethylamine, which are substrates for MAO, but was not induced by non-substrates such as indole-3-propionic acid, (+/-)-phenylethylamine and tryptophan under light. Light-dependent induction of Sekiguchi lesion by tryptamine was significantly inhibited in the presence of MAO inhibitors, metalaxyl and semicarbazide, and H2O2-scavengers, ascorbic acid and catalase. H2O2 in M. grisea-infected leaves with and without Sekiguchi lesions was demonstrated directly in situ by strong 3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB) staining. On the other hand, H2O2 induced Sekiguchi lesions on leaves of cv. Sekiguchi-asahi under light, but not in darkness. This difference was associated with the decrease of catalase activity in infected leaves under light and the absence of decrease in darkness. We hypothesize that the H2O2-induced breakdown of cellular organelles such as chloroplasts and mitochondria in mesophyll cells may cause high TDC and MAO activities and the development of Sekiguchi lesion, and that the sl gene products in wild-type rice may function as a suppressor of organelle breakdown caused by chemical or environmental stress.
14538061	Bacterial leaf blight caused by the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae (Xoo) limits rice yield in all major rice-growing regions of the world, especially in irrigated lowland and rainfed conditions where predisposition factors favor disease development to epidemic proportions. Since bacterial pathogens are difficult to manage, development of host plant resistance is the most effective means of disease management. As many as 24 major genes conferring resistance to various races of the pathogen have been identified and utilized in rice breeding programs. However, large-scale and long-term cultivation of varieties carrying a single gene for resistance resulted in a significant shift in pathogen race frequency with consequent breakdown of resistance in these cultivars. To combat the problem of resistance breakdown, pyramiding of resistance genes into different cultivars is being carried out. Pyramiding of resistance genes is now possible with molecular markers that are developed for individual genes. This review discusses the various bacterial blight resistance genes identified and their corresponding molecular markers developed for breeding durable resistance into modern rice cultivars.
14538093	Rice is the most important food crop in tropical and subtropical regions of the world. Yield enhancement to increase rice production is one of the essential strategies to meet the demand for food of the growing population. Both abiotic and biotic features limit adversely the productivity of rice growing areas. Conventional breeding has been an effective means for developing high yielding varieties, however; it is associated with its own limitations. It is envisaged that recent trends in biotechnology can contribute to the agronomic improvement of rice in terms of yield and nutritional quality as a supplement to traditional breeding methods. Genetic transformation of rice has demonstrated numerous important opportunities resulting in the genetic improvement of existing elite rice varieties and production of new plant types. Significant advances have been made in the genetic engineering of rice since the first transgenic rice plant production in the late 1980s. Several gene transfer protocols have been employed successfully for the introduction of foreign genes to rice. In more than 60 rice cultivars belonging to indica, japonica, javanica, and elite African cultivars, the protocol has been standardized for transgenic rice production. Selection and use of appropriate promoters, selectable markers, and reporter genes has been helpful for development of efficient protocols for transgenic rice in a number of rice cultivars. The present review is an attempt to assess the current state of development in transgenic rice for the transfer of agronomically useful genes, emphasizing the application and future prospects of transgenic rice production for the genetic improvement of this food crop.
14544049	Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) are O(2)-evolving photosynthesizing prokaryotes that have an extensive history of use as a human food source and as a fertilizer in rice fields. They have also been recognized as an excellent source of vitamins and proteins and as such are found in health food stores in North America and elsewhere. Cyanobacteria have a great deal of potential as a source of fine chemicals, as a biofertilizer and as a source of renewable fuel. This potential is being realized as data from research in the areas of the physiology and chemistry of these organisms are gathered and as the knowledge of cyanobacterial genetics and genetic engineering increases. We review, here, the present (and possible future) uses of cyanobacteria and assess the state of the art with respect to the genetic manipulation of cyanobacteria.
14545687	In a solid-substrate fermentation system, fungal growth within a solid mash is an important index for the efficiency of the saccharification and production of metabolites. Estimation of fungal mass in such a heterogeneous solid-substrate systems is difficult and tedious. In this work, the comparison of Aspergillus oryzae which is a common strain for the wine-brewing process cultured on a cellophane membrane placed on a koji juice agar medium and a small scale of steamed rice koji culture was conduted. Experimental results showed that the cellophane membrane technique resembled the steamed rice koji culture and is considered as a convenient and effective way for investigating the growth characteristics and cytology for solid-substrate koji system.
14551335	Brassinosteroids (BRs) play important roles throughout plant growth and development. Despite the importance of clarifying the mechanism of BR-related growth regulation in cereal crops, BR-related cereal mutants have been identified only in rice (Oryza sativa). We previously found that semidwarf barley (Hordeum vulgare) accessions carrying the "uzu" gene, called "uzu" barley in Japan, are non-responding for brassinolide (BL). We then performed chemical and molecular analyses to clarify the mechanisms of uzu dwarfism using isogenic line pairs of uzu gene. The response of the uzu line to BL was significantly lower than that of its corresponding normal line. Measurement of BRs showed that the uzu line accumulates BRs, similar to known BR-insensitive mutants. The marker synteny of rice and barley chromosomes suggests that the uzu gene may be homologous to rice D61, a rice homolog of Arabidopsis BR-insensitive 1 (BRI1), encoding a BR-receptor protein. A barley homolog of BRI1, HvBRI1, was isolated by using degenerate primers. A comparison of HvBRI1 sequences in uzu and normal barley varieties showed that the uzu phenotype is correlated with a single nucleotide substitution. This substitution results in an amino acid change at a highly conserved residue in the kinase domain of the BR-receptor protein. These results may indicate that uzu dwarfism is caused by the missense mutation in HvBRI1. The uzu gene is being introduced into all hull-less barley cultivars in Japan as an effective dwarf gene for practical use, and this is the first report about an agronomically important mutation related to BRs.
14551949	Field experiment was conducted in 2001 rice growing season to understand the effect of organic manure application on CH4 and N2O emissions. Five treatments of fertilizer including urea and NH4HCO3 used as chemical fertilizer (CF), chemical fertilizer + pig manure (CF + PM), chemical fertilizer + cow manure (CF + CM), chemical fertilizer + rapeseed cake (CF + RC) and chemical fertilizer + wheat straw (CF + WS) were dedicated to this experiment. Results from the field observations indicated that application of the organic manure did not change the seasonal pattern of CH4 and N2O emissions but significantly affected the seasonal amounts. Seasonal amount of CH4 emission from the treatments of CF + CM, CF + RC and CF + WS was respectively 45%, 252% and 250% higher than that from the treatment of CF, but the application of pig manure (CF + PM) did not significantly influence the CH4 emission. The N2O emissions, on the other hand, were reduced by 18%, 21% and 18% for the treatments of CF + PM, CF + CM and CF + WS, respectively. Incorporation of rapeseed cake enhanced the N2O emission, yielding an increment of 22%. On a time scale of 20-year period, the integrated global warming potential (GWP) of CH4 + N2O released during the rice growing season for the treatments of CF + RC, CF + WS and CF + CM was respectively 154%, 136% and 17% higher than that for the CF treatment, while a reduction of 10% was obtained for the CF + PM treatment. The calculation of the GWP per unit rice grain yield suggested that the application of pig manure took the slight advantages not only in reducing the GWP but also in improving the grain yield.
14552358	Dwarf plants are useful in research because multiple plants can be grown in a small area. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is especially important since its relatively simple genome has recently been sequenced. We are characterizing a gibberellic acid (GA) mutant of rice (japonica cv 'Shiokari,' line N-71) that is extremely dwarf (20 cm tall). Unfortunately, this GA mutation is associated with poor germination (70%) under aerobic conditions. Neither exogenous GA nor a dormancy-breaking heat treatment improved germination. However, 95% germination was achieved by germinating the seeds anaerobically, either in a pure N2 environment or submerged in unstirred tap water. The anaerobic conditions appear to break a mild post-harvest dormancy in this rice cultivar.
14552359	Ethylene (C2H4) gas is produced throughout the life cycle of plants and can accumulate in closed growth chambers to levels 100 times higher than in outside environments. Elevated atmospheric C2H4 can cause a variety of abnormal responses, but the sensitivity to elevated C2H4 is not well characterized. We evaluated the C2H4 sensitivity of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and rice (Oryza sativa L.) in five studies. The first three studies compared the effects of continuous C2H4 levels ranging from 0 to 1000 nmol mol-1 (ppb) in a growth chamber throughout the life cycle of the plants. A short-term 1000 nmol mol-1 treatment was included in which exposure was stopped at anthesis. Yield was reduced by 36% in wheat and 63% in rice at 50 nmol mol-1 and both species were virtually sterile when continuously exposed to 1000 nmol mol-1. However, the yield reductions were much less with exposure that stopped at anthesis, suggesting the detrimental effect of C2H4 on yield was greatest around the time of seed set. Two additional studies evaluated the differential sensitivity of two wheat cultivars (Super Dwarf and USU-Apogee) to 50 nmol mol-1 C2H4 at three CO2 levels [350, 1200, 5000 micromoles mol-1 (ppm)] in a greenhouse. Yield of USU-Apogee was not significantly reduced by C2H4 but the yield of Super Dwarf was reduced by 60%. Elevated CO2 did not influence the sensitivity to C2H4. A difference in the C2H4 sensitivity of USU-Apogee between greenhouse and growth chamber trials suggests that C2H4 sensitivity is dependent on the environment. Collectively, the data suggest that relatively low levels of C2H4 could induce anomalous plant responses by accumulation in greenhouses and growth chambers with inadequate ventilation. The data also suggest that C2H4 sensitivity can be reduced by both genetic and environmental manipulations.
14556274	High-risk human papillomaviruses, such as type 16 (HPV-16), are established etiological agents for cervical carcinoma. In most cases, this virus is transmitted sexually, though can also be spread from mother to infant at delivery. We have demonstrated previously a high prevalence (approximately 52%) of HPV-16 DNA in the mouths of prepubertal children, albeit with low levels of transcription [Rice et al., 2000]. We investigated whether childhood buccal infections with HPV-16 are persistent or transient and whether children became infected through contact with their immediate family members. Two groups of children were selected: one group were all initially HPV-16 E5 DNA-positive in sensitive polymerase chain reaction tests of swabs from their buccal mucosa (n = 20), and the other group consisted of children who were all HPV-16 E5-negative (n = 19). Thirty months later, a second oral swab was collected from each child and tested for HPV DNA. At this second visit, 40% of the HPV-16-positive group had no detectable HPV-16 DNA; conversely, 63% of children who were originally HPV-16-negative had now acquired the virus. Three months later, a third sample was collected from eight children and their immediate families (seven were HPV-16 E5 DNA-positive at the second visit). Amongst the family samples tested, in two families a single previously untested child was HPV-16 DNA-positive. It is concluded that HPV-16 DNA in the oral cavities of children is a transient event and is most probably acquired from their peers.
14557046	The gibberellin (GA) signaling pathway, like auxin and jasmonate signaling, uses the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway to control expression through protein degradation. A conserved F-box protein of an SCF E3 ubiquitin ligase is a positive regulator of GA signaling in Arabidopsis and rice. GA apparently stimulates stem elongation by causing this SCF complex to regulate negatively a family of negative regulators of GA response (the DELLA family of putative transcription factors). The DELLA family members AtRGA or (Repressor of ga1-3) and OsSLR1 (SLENDER RICE1) proteins both appear to be subject to GA-induced proteolysis. The need to have the F-box genes AtSLY1 and OsGID2 for this proteolysis suggests that GA causes proteolysis of AtRGA/OsSLR1 via the SCF(AtSLY1/OsGID2) ubiquitin ligase.
14557075	Two genes encoding ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters were isolated from the crop plant Zea mays (maize). The clones, designated ZmMRP1 and ZmMRP2, were highly homologous to members of the multidrug resistance associated protein (MRP) subfamily. Genomic Southern analysis and characterisation of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones demonstrated that both genes are present in two copies in maize, which are located in proximity to each other, suggesting the occurrence of duplication events. The full-length genomic and cDNA sequences of ZmMRP1 and 2 were obtained, permitting analysis of the intron/exon structures and protein domains. Intron positions and phasing were conserved between ZmMRP1 and 2 and their closest Arabidopsis homologues. Both clones contained two copies each of the membrane spanning domains and nucleotide-binding folds diagnostic of the ABC superfamily, and ZmMRP1 contained an additional N-terminal membrane-spanning domain (MSD0) that is typical of MRP transporters but which is lacking in the most closely related Arabidopsis and rice MRPs. In contrast, ZmMRP2 and its closest rice but not Arabidopsis homologues lacked MSD0, suggesting the repeated loss of this domain in MRP family evolution. ZmMRP1 and 2 were expressed in all tissues examined but displayed distinct expression profiles in response to herbicide safeners and pro-oxidants. ZmMRP1 was induced by aminotriazole and to a lesser extent by menadione, whereas ZmMRP2 was expressed at a lower constitutive level and did not exhibit strong induction by any of the compounds tested. The characterisation of these clones represents an important step in the experimental analysis of the MRP subfamily in a monocotyledonous crop plant.
14558655	Pairwise comparison of whole plastid and draft nuclear genomic sequences of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica shows that rice nuclear genomic sequences contain homologs of plastid DNA covering about 94 kb (83%) of plastid genome and including one or more full-length intact (without mutations resulting in premature stop codons) homologues of 26 known protein-coding (KPC) plastid genes. By contrast, only about 20 kb (16%) of chloroplast DNA, including a single intact plastid-derived KPC gene, is presented in the nucleus of A. thaliana. Sixteen rice plastid genes have at least one nuclear copy without any mutation or with only synonymous substitutions. Nuclear copies for other ten plastid genes contain both synonymous and non-synonymous substitutions. Multiple ESTs for 25 out of 26 KPC genes were also found, as well as putative promoters for some of them. The study of substitutions pattern shows that some of nuclear homologues of plastid genes may be functional and/or are under the pressure of the positive natural selection. The similar comparative analysis performed on rice chromosome 1 revealed 27 contigs containing plastid-derived sequences, totalling about 84 kb and covering two thirds of chloroplast DNA, with the intact nuclear copies of 26 different KPC genes. One of these contigs, AP003280, includes almost 57 kb (45%) of chloroplast genome with the intact copies of 22 KPC genes. At the same time, we observed that relative locations of homologues in plastid DNA and the nuclear genome are significantly different.
14558657	The rice OsMADS16 gene is phylogenetically related to the angiosperm B-function MADS-box genes. To investigate if OsMADS16 functions as an AP3/DEF orthologue to regulate the development of lodicules and stamens in rice, we isolated its genomic sequences and characterized its functions in planta by RNA interference. The genomic sequence of the OsMADS16 gene shows that it shares high similarity in genomic structure and the deduced amino acid sequence with the maize B-class gene, Si1. Transgenic lines from the introduced gene expressing double-stranded RNA with the OsMADS16 cDNA fragment were male-sterile and displayed alternations of lodicules and stamens, occasionally depressed palea and overgrown glume. The two lodicules were converted into four palea/lemma-like organs and some stamens into carpels. Further investigations of the transcription of OsMADS16 gene in these transgenic lines by RT-PCR revealed that its transcript was significantly reduced. Transcription of a rice PI homologous gene, OsMADS4, was also reduced remarkably in the transgenic plants. Our results demonstrate that OsMADS16 is an AP3/DEF orthologue to specify the identities of lodicules and stamens in rice flower and also support that OsMADS4 is a PI orthologue. In addition, these results suggest that RNA interference is a useful tool for functional genomics in rice.
14558783	A new rice mutant Suweon 464 (S-464) derived from a high-quality rice, Ilpumbyeo (IP), revealed a striking difference in cooking quality from IP. The physicochemical properties of S-464 and IP were compared. S-464 was unusually high in amylose and fiber contents, had B-type crystallinity of starch, and had a markedly lower proportion of short chains in the distribution of glucan-chain fractions of debranched starch as compared with IP. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that starch granules of S-464 were much smaller in size than those of IP and that many of them were not separated from amyloplasts. The physicochemical properties of S-464 would contribute to poor gelatinization, lower swelling power, higher hardness, and less stickiness when cooked. Although S-464 may not be desirable for cooked rice, the mutant could be an excellent candidate for other processed food products on the basis of its unusual properties of starch and high fiber, protein, and lipid contents.
14559225	Previously, we reported rice (Oryza sativa L. japonica type cv. Nipponbare) allene oxide synthase (OsAOS) and cyclase (OsAOC) genes of the octadecanoid pathway. Here we have isolated a 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid reductase gene, called OsOPR1, encoding the last committed enzymatic step on the octadecanoid pathway leading to jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthesis. OsOPR1 encodes a 380 amino acid long polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 42465.02 and pI of 5.79, and belongs to a gene family in the rice genome. Transcriptional profiling using our established two-week-old rice seedling model system against a variety of environmental factors such as wounding, global signals (including JA), osmotic stresses, heavy metals, UV-C irradiation, fungal elicitor, protein phosphatase inhibitors, and gaseous pollutants indicated that OsOPR1 transcript was rapidly, transiently and differentially up-regulated within 30 min in leaves. Surprisingly, co-application of signaling molecules JA, salicylate and ethylene, resulted in a massive accumulation of the OsOPR1 transcript at 30 min and remained elevated with time, a new observation. Furthermore, transient expression of OsOPR1, most likely regulated by a de novo synthesized negative trans-acting factor(s), was evidenced by the use of cycloheximide. Finally, the endogenous OsOPR1 expression varied with the stage of plant development. These results strongly suggest a regulatory role for OsOPR1 in rice plant defense/stress response pathway(s) and reproduction.
14561741	In plants, the cation/H+ exchanger (CAX) translocates Ca2+ and other metal ions into vacuoles using the H+ gradient formed by H+-ATPase and H+-pyrophosphatase. Such exchangers carrying 11 transmembrane domains (TMs) have been isolated from plants, yeast, and bacteria. In this study, multiple sequence alignment of several CAXs revealed the presence of highly conserved 36-residue regions between TM3 and TM4 and between TM8 and TM9. These two repetitive motifs are designated repeats c-1 and c-2. Using site-directed mutagenesis, we generated 31 mutations in the repeats of the Oryza sativa CAX, which translocates Ca2+ and Mn2+. Mutant exchangers were expressed in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain that is sensitive to Ca2+ and Mn2+ because of the absence of vacuolar Ca2+-ATPase and the Ca2+/H+ exchanger. Mutant exchangers were classified into six classes according to their tolerance for Ca2+ and Mn2+. For example, the class III mutants had no tolerance for either ion, and the class IV mutants had tolerance only for Ca2+. The biochemical function of each residue was estimated. We investigated the membrane topology of the repeats using a method combining cysteine mutagenesis and sulfhydryl reagents. Our results suggest that repeat c-1 re-enters the membrane from the vacuolar luminal side and forms a solution-accessible region. Furthermore, several residues in repeats c-1 and c-2 were found to be conserved in animal Na+/Ca2+ exchangers. Finally, we suggest that these re-entrant repeats may form a vestibule or filter for cation selection.
14564393	Computational screening of the chromosome-4 sequence of the rice cultivar Nipponbare (Oryza sativa L. japonica) revealed 1,844 tandem simple sequence repeats (SSRs) or microsatellites with SSR motifs >/=20 bp and repeated unit length of 1-6 base pairs. Thus SSRs occur once in every 18.8 kb, on the average, on the chromosome with one SSR per 23.8 kb and 16 kb on the short and long arms, respectively. No SSR was detected in the core region of the centromere. Poly(AT)(n) repeats represented the most abundant and length polymorphic class of SSRs on the chromosome, but it did not occur in the exons. GC-rich trinucleotide repeats were most abundant in the coding regions, representing 71.69% of the SSRs identified in the exons. Two hundred and twenty four SSRs were associated with the repetitive DNA sequences, most of them were poly(AT)(n) tracts. Sequence variations of SSRs between two cultivars, representing the two subspecies of the Asian cultivated rice indica and japonica, were identified, revealing that divergence and convergence of the two subspecies could be traced by the analysis of SSRs. These results provide a great opportunity for SSR-based marker development and comparative genome analysis of the two subspecies of the Asian cultivated rice.
14564397	Delayed leaf-senescence, or stay-green, has been regarded as a desired characteristic for the production of a number of crops including rice. In this study, we analyzed the genetic basis of stay-green using a population of 190 doubled haploid lines from the cross between an indica parent Zhenshan 97 and a stay-green japonica parent Wuyujing 2. The population was tested in replicated field trials in 2 consecutive years, and six traits were defined to evaluate the stay-green characteristics. A genetic linkage map with 179 SSR (simple sequence repeat) marker loci was constructed. The software QTLMapper, based on a mixed linear model approach, was applied to detect QTLs, epistatic effects and their environmental interactions for these traits. A total of 46 main-effect QTLs was detected for the six traits that can be localized to 25 chromosomal regions. The individual effects of all the QTLs were small. Fifty digenic interactions were resolved that involved 66 loci distributed on all 12 chromosomes. Environmental interactions were detected for 18 of the main-effect QTLs and 14 of the epistatic interactions. Collectively, the epistatic effects and QTL by year interactions accounted for large proportions of the phenotypic variations. The results also showed that most of the stay-green traits were negatively correlated with yield and its component traits. The implications of the results in crop improvement were discussed.
14564930	A cross-sectional study was conducted between 1996 and 1998. Six 24-hour recalls were performed during the second trimester of pregnancy among 450 women in Purworejo District, Central Java, Indonesia. The objectives of the study were to assess the food intake and food pattern among pregnant women before and during the economic crisis. Before the crisis, rich women had the highest intakes of animal foods, fats and oils, and sugar. Food intake among the urban poor and the rural landless poor subgroups was influenced by the emerging economic crisis. Although the price of rice increased, the intake of rice also increased among all subgroups. Rural poor women with access to rice fields increased their intake of rice and decreased their intake of nonrice staple foods (p < .05). There were significant decreases in the consumption of chicken by rich women and rural poor women with access to rice fields (p < .05). Rice was a strongly inferior good and remained an important supplier of energy, protein, and carbohydrate. Nuts and pulses were important suppliers of calcium and iron, and vegetables were an important supplier of vitamin A. Rich women increased their intake of nuts and pulses, vegetables, fats and oils, and sugar when their intake of rice increased (p < .05). The food patterns were based on rice, nuts and pulses, and vegetables, i.e., plant food. All but the rich women decreased their intake of nutritious foods such as meat, chicken, and fruits. The intake of nuts and pulses and of vegetables increased, whereas the intake of cooking oil and sugar remained constant.
14566990	Analyses of the correlation between hyperspectral reflectance and pigment content including chlorophyll-a, chlorophyll-b and carotenoid of leaves in different sites of rice were reported in this paper. The hyperspectral reflectance of late rice during the whole growing season was measured using a Spectroradiometer with spectral range of 350-1050 nm and resolution of 3 nm. The chlorophyll-a, chlorophyll-b and carotenoid contents in rice leaves in rice fields to which different levels of nitrogen were applied were measured. The chlorophyll-a content of upper leaves was well correlated with the spectral variables. However, the correlation between both chlorophyll-b and caroteniod and the spectral variables was far from that of chlorophyll-a. The potential of hyperspectral reflectance measurement for estimating chlorophyll-a of upper leaves was evaluated using univariate correlation and multivariate regression analysis methods with different types of predictors. This study showed that the most suitable estimated model of chlorophyll-a of upper leaves was obtained by using some hyperspectral variables such as SD(r), SD(b) and their integration.
14567833	A case-control study was conducted to investigate the dietary and socio-economic factors associated with beriberi in infants attending three public hospitals in Vientiane, Lao PDR. Forty-three breast-feeding infants with a median (range) age of 3 (1-9) months were admitted with beriberi. This was defined as the presence of signs of congestive heart failure or shock in the absence of fever or other signs of sepsis, hypovolaemia or cardiac abnormalities, with rapid clinical improvement following parenteral thiamine. Subjects were matched by age and diet to 43 breast-feeding healthy control infants. Compared with control mothers, mothers of infants with beriberi had significantly less diet diversity (p <0.001), soaked glutinous rice for significantly longer or were more likely to pour off excess water from non-glutinous rice (p =0.006), had fewer years of schooling (p <0.05), were more likely to report that income was inadequate for basic needs (p <0.001), to perform hard physical labour (p <0.01) and to be married to farmers (p <0.01). Clinically significant thiamine deficiency in breastfed infants in Lao relates to methods of preparing rice, the food selected by lactating mothers and the family's socio-economic status.
14567925	Fermented foods such as Japanese traditional food "miso (fermented soy bean paste)" have been shown to be rich source of micronutrients with the potential to prevent various human diseases. We have introduced effects of a new dietary supplement of fermented grain foods mixture containing extracts from wheat germ, soybeans, rice bran, tear grass, sesame, wheat, citrus lemon, green tea, green leaf extract and malted rice under the trade name of antioxidant biofactor (AOB). Chemical analysis of AOB shows the presence of various phenolic compounds (catechins, rutin, genistin, daidzin, etc.). AOB has strong antioxidant properties and additional biological effects, which might be of importance in context with the prevention of degenerative diseases. This paper focuses on the effect of supplementing AOB in various animal models and humans.
14567948	In this work, soil-to-plant transfer factors of radiocaesium are predicted based on soil properties such as pH, organic matter content, exchangeable K+ and clay content valid for the tropical environments in Bangladesh, China and Japan, and using a previously published model. Due to insufficient data of soil properties in the selected regions, the average values of pH, organic matter content, exchangeable K+ and clay content were taken as the input model parameters within the ranges given for Asia. Nevertheless, a complete set of soil properties of Japanese soils was used to compare the measured and calculated TF values of radiocaesium for radish. The calculated TF values for radiocaesium are comparable with the measured values especially for leafy parts of a plant. However, calculated values for rice, an important crop in Asia are found to overestimate the measured values due to an overestimate of calculated CECs in soils in the selected regions. The empirical parameters used in the model need to be re-evaluated for the specific part of a plant and/or for a variety of different plants. Alternatively, a general conversion factor for each part of a plant and/or for a variety of different plants for a specific region is suggested for tropical environments.
14569716	This study was conducted to determine the prevalence of household food insecurity and its potential risk factors and outcomes among the Orang Asli (Temuan) households. Socioeconomic, demographic and food security information of the households and anthropometric measurements and dietary intakes of preschoolers (n = 64) were obtained using a structured questionnaire. Food security was assessed using the Radimer/Cornell hunger and food insecurity instrument. Diet quality was based on 24 hour recall and analyzed according to the Malaysian RDA and Food Guide Pyramid. Majority of the households (82%) reported some kind of household food insecurity. The prevalence of significant underweight, stunting and wasting were 45.3%, 51.6% and 7.8%, respectively. Dietary intakes were less than 2/3 RDA levels for calories, calcium and iron. However, the intakes of protein, vitamin A, vitamin C and niacin exceeded the RDA and the sources for these nutrients were mainly rice, fish and green leafy vegetables. Among the five food groups, only the number of servings from cereals/cereal products/tubers group was achieved while that of the milk/diary products was the worst. Majority of the children (68.7%) had poor, 31.3% had fair and none with excellent diet quality. In general, diet quality and nutritional status of the children decreased as household food insecurity worsened. It is recommended that the nutritional problems of Orang Asli children be addressed through health, nutrition and economic programs and further studies should be carried out on determinants and consequences of household food insecurity.
14571370	With the increasing amount of available genome sequences, novel tools are needed for comprehensive analysis of species-specific sequence characteristics for a wide variety of genomes. We used an unsupervised neural network algorithm, Kohonen's self-organizing map (SOM), to analyze di- and trinucleotide frequencies in 9 eukaryotic genomes of known sequences (a total of 1.2 Gb); S. cerevisiae, S. pombe, C. elegans, A. thaliana, D. melanogaster, Fugu, and rice, as well as P. falciparum chromosomes 2 and 3, and human chromosomes 14, 20, 21, and 22, that have been almost completely sequenced. Each genomic sequence with different window sizes was encoded as a 16- and 64-dimensional vector giving relative frequencies of di- and trinucleotides, respectively. From analysis of a total of 120,000 nonoverlapping 10-kb sequences and overlapping 100-kb sequences with a moving step size of 10 kb, derived from a total of the 1.2 Gb genomic sequences, clear species-specific separations of most sequences were obtained with the SOMs. The unsupervised algorithm could recognize, in most of the 120,000 10-kb sequences, the species-specific characteristics (key combinations of oligonucleotide frequencies) that are signature representations of each genome. Because the classification power is very high, the SOMs can provide fundamental bioinformatic strategies for extracting a wide range of genomic information that could not otherwise be obtained.
14571977	A vacuolar type beta-D-fructofuranosidase (Os beta fruct3) was cloned from etiolated rice seedlings cDNA library. It encodes an open reading frame of 688 residues. The deduced amino acid sequence had 58% identity to the vacuolar type beta-D-fructofuranosidase of maize (Ivr1). Os beta fruct3 exists as a single copy per genome. Northern analyses showed that Os beta fruct3 undergoes organ-specific expression and is involved in the adjustment of plant responses to environmental signals and metabolizable sugars. Os beta fruct3 was also heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris. The recombinant proteins were confirmed to be a vacuolar type beta-D-fructofuranosidase.
14572653	Little is known about the role of pleiotropic drug resistance (PDR)-type ATP-binding (ABC) proteins in plant responses to environmental stresses. We characterised ospdr9, which encodes a rice ABC protein with a reverse (ABC-TMS(6))(2) configuration. Polyethylene glycol and the heavy metals Cd (20 microM) and Zn (30 microM) rapidly and markedly induced ospdr9 in roots of rice seedlings. Hypoxic stress also induced ospdr9 in rice roots, salt stress induced ospdr9 at low levels but cold and heat shock had no effect. The plant growth regulator jasmonic acid, the auxin alpha-naphthalene acetic acid and the cytokinin 6-benzylaminopurine triggered ospdr9 expression. The antioxidants dithiothreitol and ascorbic acid rapidly and markedly induced ospdr9 in rice roots; the strong oxidant hydrogen peroxide also induced ospdr9 but at three times lower levels. The results suggested that redox changes may be involved in the abiotic stress response regulation of ospdr9 in rice roots.
14572664	Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) have poorly understood roles in plant responses to environmental stresses. A polyethylene glycol (PEG)-induced tau class GST was identified in rice roots by protein microsequencing. PEG and the heavy metals Cd (20 microM), Zn (30 microM), Co and Ni rapidly and markedly induced osgstu4 and osgstu3 in rice seedling roots. Osgstu4 and osgstu3 were also induced in roots by hypoxic stress but not by cold nor heat shock. Salt stress and abscisic acid (ABA) rapidly induced osgstu3 in rice roots, whereas osgstu4 exhibited a late salt stress and no ABA response. Salicylic acid, jasmonic acid and the auxin alpha-naphthalene acetic acid triggered osgstu4 and osgstu3 expression. Osgstu4 and osgstu3 were rapidly and markedly induced by the antioxidant dithiothreitol and the strong oxidant hydrogen peroxide, which suggested that redox perturbations and reactive oxygen species are involved in their stress response regulations.
14573344	Wastewater treatment systems employing simultaneous adsorption and biodegradation processes have proven to be effective in treating toxic pollutants present in industrial wastewater. The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of Cu(II) and the efficacy of the powdered activated carbon (PAC) and activated rice husk (ARH) in reducing the toxic effect of Cu(II) on the activated sludge microorganisms. The ARH was prepared by treatment with concentrated nitric acid for 15 h at 60-65 degrees C. The sequencing batch reactor (SBR) systems were operated with FILL, REACT, SETTLE, DRAW and IDLE modes in the ratio of 0.5:3.5:1:0.75:0.25 for a cycle time of 6 h. The Cu(II) and COD removal efficiency were 90 and 85%, respectively, in the SBR system containing 10 mg/l Cu(II) with the addition of 143 mg/l PAC or 1.0 g PAC per cycle. In the case of 715 mg/l ARH or 5.0 g ARH per cycle addition, the Cu(II) and COD removal efficiency were 85 and 92%, respectively. ARH can be used as an alternate adsorbent to PAC in the simultaneous adsorption and biodegradation wastewater treatment process for the removal of Cu(II). The specific oxygen uptake rate (SOUR) and kinetic studies show that the addition of PAC and ARH reduce the toxic effect of Cu(II) on the activated sludge microorganisms.
14573486	To assess the usefulness of linkage disequilibrium mapping in an autogamous, domesticated species, we have characterized linkage disequilibrium in the candidate region for xa5, a recessive gene conferring race-specific resistance to bacterial blight in rice. This trait and locus have good mapping information, a tractable phenotype, and available sequence data, but no cloned gene. We sampled 13 short segments from the 70-kb candidate region in 114 accessions of Oryza sativa. Five additional segments were sequenced from the adjacent 45-kb region in resistant accessions to estimate the distance at which linkage disequilibrium decays. The data show significant linkage disequilibrium between sites 100 kb apart. The presence of the xa5 resistant reaction in two ecotypes and in accessions with different haplotypes in the candidate region may indicate multiple origins or genetic heterogeneity for resistance. In addition, genetic differentiation between ecotypes emphasizes the need for controlling for population structure in the design of linkage disequilibrium studies in rice.
14574993	A simple and highly efficient rice transformation system was established based on the studying of factors influencing the Agrobacterium-mediated rice transformation. Embryogenic calli derived from mature embryos were infected and cocultivated with A. tumefaciens EHA101 harboring binary vectors: pHQ9, pHQ10, pHQT3. The highest transformation frequency was about 100 hygromycin resistance calli per gram of calli explants, and above 85% of these calli could be regenerated into plants. The putative transgenic plants were confirmed by GUS assay and southern-blot analysis. Hygromycin resistance tests indicated that the segregation of transgene in T1 progeny corresponded to the Mendelian ratio, 3:1. This system will benefit the functional genomic study of rice by using T-DNA insertion mutagenesis and gene targeting.
14575946	Pyrolysis (carbonization) has been proposed as one of several optional technologies for disposing and recycling waste products in Japan. Plant wastes (sugarcane bagasse and rice husks), animal waste (cow biosolids) and human waste (treated municipal sludge) were pyrolyzed at temperatures from 250-800 degrees C in closed containers. The carbonized materials were evaluated for specific physical properties (yield, surface area, density) and specific chemical properties (total carbon, total nitrogen, pH, fixed carbon, ash content, volatility) in order to compare differences in properties among the four waste products. The results indicated that (1) surface area, total carbon, ash content and pH increased as the carbonization temperature increased, while carbonization yield decreased with increasing temperature, (2) product density however was not affected by temperature and (3) correlation coefficients were determined among the physical and chemical properties and several significant correlations were observed. The data indicate that source material had considerable influence on the physical and chemical properties of the carbonized products.
14575950	A field experiment was conducted for two years in sandy loam acid lateritic soil to study the direct effect of fly ash, organic wastes and chemical fertilizers on rice (Oryza sativa) and their residual effect on mustard (Brassica napus var glauca) grown in sequence. Rice yields were higher when fly ash, organic wastes and chemical fertilizers were used in an integrated manner as compared to sole application of chemical fertilizers. Yields of mustard were also higher under the residual effect of the former rather than the latter. However, this beneficial residual effect under integrated nutrient sources was inadequate for the mustard crop in the low fertility test soil. Hence, direct application of fertilizers was needed, in addition to residual fertility. The effect of fly ash on mean rice equivalent yield of the rice-mustard cropping sequence was highest (up to 14%) when it was used in combination with organic wastes and chemical fertilizers. While the yield increase was 10% when it was used in combination with only chemical fertilizers. The minimum yield advantage, 3%, occurred when fly ash was applied alone. The equivalent yield of the rice-mustard cropping sequence was equally influenced by either of the organic wastes. Cadmium and Ni content in rice grain and straw were less under the direct effect of fly ash. The residual effect on mustard was similar for Ni content in seed and stover; however, Cd content was increased. Beneficial residual soil chemical properties in terms of pH, organic carbon and available N, P and K were noted for integrated nutrient treatments involved fly ash, organic wastes and chemical fertilizers as compared to continuous use of only chemical fertilizers. Application of fly ash alone was effective in raising soil available P. Thus, integrated use of fly ash, organic wastes and chemical fertilizers was beneficial in improving crop yield, soil pH, organic carbon and available N, P and K in sandy loam acid lateritic soil.
14576284	I identified a new locus responsible for increased yield potential and evaluated its physiological function to understand how to improve potential yield in rice (Oryza sativa) plants. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for 1,000-grain weight (TGW) were analyzed under different environments over 3 years in backcross inbred lines of rice japonica cv Nipponbare x indica cv Kasalath. Four QTLs for this trait were detected across environments; rice cv Kasalath had a positive allele only at one QTL on chromosome 6 (tgw6). A near-isogenic line (NILtgw6) that carried a rice cv Kasalath chromosomal segment corresponding to tgw6 in the rice cv Nipponbare genetic background was selected and analyzed to clarify the physiological function of this locus. The carbohydrate storage capacity before heading in NILtgw6 was superior to that in rice cv Nipponbare (control), but other characters (e.g. photosynthetic ability in flag leaf and traits related to plant type) were the same in both plants. In the leaf sheath, the main organ that accumulates carbohydrate before heading in rice, higher contents of carbohydrate and transcripts of genes related to starch synthesis were found in NILtgw6 than in rice cv Nipponbare. Compared with those in rice cv Nipponbare, a high-yield modern cultivar, TGW and yield per plant were significantly higher in NILtgw6, by 10% and 15%, respectively (P[f] < 0.01). These results suggest that tgw6 improves the carbohydrate storage capacity and consequently increases the yield potential in NILtgw6.
14577370	Hybrid rice is very important in agriculture production in China. Its selecting property makes it significant to study the genetic performance of F1's date to heading (DH). Minghui63, an indica rice restorer line, has been widdly applied to hybrid rice seed production in China, but the photoperiod-sensitivity gene of heading date in this restorer line is still unknown. This definitely limited the further use of this restorer line in breeding practice and re-production of hybrid seeds. To solve this problem, using heading time nearly isogenic lines EGO-EG7, ER-LR and two heading date QTL-isogenic lines, NIL (Hd1) and NIL (Hd4), with the genes of Nipponbare but Hd1 (Se-1) and Hd4 (E1) genes from Kasalath, respectively, we performed a genetic analysis of Minghui63 with special reference to photoperiod-sensitivity loci, using natural long days in Nanjing(32 degrees N) and natural short days in Linshui county, Hainan province (18 degrees 29'N), where the average day-length is about 14 h and 11.6 h during the course of rice growing, respectively. The F1 and F2 generations from the crosses "heading time nearly isogenic lines x Minghui63" were subjected to genetic analyses. Experimental results showed that Minghui63 carries photoperiod-sensitivity allele gene E1 and E3 in E1 and E3 loci, respectly, and a photoperiod insensitivity allele Se-1e in Se-1 locus, and it also carries a recessive inhibitor for photoperiod-sensitivity gene E1. Meanwhile, the photoperiod-sensitive genes, E1 and the photoperiod-insensitive genes, Se-1e, in Minghui63 were also identified by crossing with the nearly isogenic lines for heading time QTLs, NIL (Hd1) and NIL(Hd4). The results indicated that Minghui63's genotype of heading date was: E1E1e2e2E3E3Se-1eSe-1e. The result from this research indicated that Minghui63 carries a major dominant photoperiod-sensitive gene E1 in E1 locus, and our previous researches indicated that Zhenshan97A carried a major dominant photoperiod-sensitive gene Se-1n in Se-1 locus and a recessive inhibitor gene i-Se-1. The DH of the hybrid rice "Shanyou63" is 94.7 in Nanjing, lying between Zhenshan97A's and Minghui63's, but more nearer to late maturity parent Minghui63. It has been not expressed that E1 gene usually prolongs days to heading by about 20 days when coexisting with Se-1u or Se-1n. This is possibly made by that inhibitor genes exist in respective parents, which make DH transgression of "Shanyou63" not appear. This phenomenon indicated that the heading date of indica hybrid rice is resulted from the interaction among the photoperiod-sensitive genes and their inhibitor genes in the sterile and the restorer lines.
14577371	FZP is a key gene for spikelet differentiation in rice. Mutation of the gene blocks the differentiation of spikelets and makes rachis branches develop unlimitedly. A mutant of the gene named frizzle panicle (fzp) was previously found from the high-generation progeny of a cross between two Oryza sativa ssp. indica rice varieties, V20B and Hua1B. With the mutant, FZP had been mapped to a chromosomal region of about 26.4 cM in width between two SSR (Simple Sequence Repeat) markers, RM172 and RM18, on chromosome 7. In this study, high-resolution mapping of the gene was carried out for the positional cloning of the gene. Two flanking SSR markers, NRM6 and NRM8, were identified, which are 0.2 cM and 1.0 cM apart from the target gene, respectively, bracketing the target gene within an interval of 1.2 cM or 144 kb. An APETALA2 (AP2)-domain like gene was found at the expected position of FZP. As AP2 is known to play an important role in the floral development, we took it as the most possible candidate of FZP. PCR analysis showed that the mutant allele of the AP2-domain like gene contains an insert of about 4 kb in length, suggesting that the gene is very likely FZP.
14577628	From the methanol extract of Penicillium sp. cultivated on sterilized rice for three weeks we isolated three new meroterpenes preaustinoid A1, A2 and B1. The fungus was isolated from the root bark of Melia azedarach after surface sterilization. The structures of these compounds were identified by intensive spectroscopic studies.
14577668	Developing rice seeds rapidly accumulated storage lipids between 5 and 12 d after flowering. The contents of palmitic, oleic, and linoleic acids increased throughout seed development, while the alpha-linolenic acid content remained low. The activity of acyl-CoA synthetase varied coincidentally during the period of lipid accumulation, and rice seeds had a sufficient capacity to supply acyl-CoA substrates for TAG synthesis. Acyl-CoA synthetase showed a broad specificity for native FA of rice seeds except for stearic acid, and pi electrons of a delta9-delta11 double bond in the C16-C18 acyl chains were required for its maximal activity.
14579532	Percentage of exserted stigmas (PES) was investigated in Hainan by using a population of 127 DH population derived from a cross between a high-PES indica variety Zaiyeqing 8 (ZYQ 8) and a low-PES japonica variety Jingxi 17(JX 17) and its molecular linkage map of 234 markers. Two QTLs (qPES-2, qPES-3) for PES were located on chromosome 2 and 3, respectively. There is no difference between the QTLs for single stigma exsertation and total PES, but the only QTL for dual stigma exsertation located on chromosome 2, whose positive additive effect was from ZYQ 8. Simultaneously the detected QTLs for spikelets per panicle located on chromosome 6,8, respectively and had no linkage relation with the QTLs for PES.
14579533	The contribution of rice as a protein source is important. Rice seed protein can be divided into four forms, glutelin (57 kDa, 37-39 kDa, 22-23 kDa), prolamine (13 kDa), albumin (16 kDa) and globulin (10 kDa, 26 kDa) on its solubility. Glutelin is the major storage protein of rice and accounted for 80% of total protein found in the rice grain, the mature glutelin comprises an acidic (37-39 kDa) and an basic subunit (22-23 kDa) coming from a common precursor (57 kDa) by post-transcriptional hydrolytic cleavage. Prolamine is the second important. Rice seed proteins localize in two types of protein bodies, PB-I, PB-II. PB-I containing prolamine is indigestible, whereas PB-II being rich in glutelin is digestible. The nutritional value of rice could thus be raised by improving its digestible protein glutelin content. On the other hand, the character of low digestible protein is also an important target of rice breeding. Low protein rice is required for the diet of patients with kidney disease. Three glutelin mutants, W3660, W204, W379, were found by screening 168 rice varieties through SDS-PAGE analysis of the seeds total proteins. The amounts of 37-39 kDa and 22-23 kDa glutelin subunits were much lower and that of 13 kDa prolamine polypeptide was higher in W3660 seeds than in ordinary rice; The amounts of 37-39 kDa and 22-23 kDa glutelin subunits in W204 or W379 seeds were between those in W3660 and ordinary rice. Especially, in W379 seed, there was a large quantity of 57 kDa polypeptide. For characterizing the genetics of the glutelin mutant, the cross population between W3660 and Otorokimochi was constructed. SDS-PAGE analysis of the progeny seed total proteins showed, low glutelin content was always accompanied by high prolamine content; all F1 seeds had low glutelin and high prolamine content; the segregation of low glutelin and normal type in F2 seeds was 3:1; the genotypes of F2 plants were deduced by the analysis of F3 seeds, and among F2 plants the ratio of homozygotes of low glutelin, heterozygotes of low glutelin and homozygotes of normal type was about 1:2:1. These results proved that the trait of low glutelin and high prolamine was controlled by a single dominant gene and could be inherited by its progeny.
14579984	An improved solution of glucose and three salts (ORS) is an elegant and deceptively simple treatment technology to prevent or treat dehydration from diarrhoea. There are many types of formulation tested earlier. First generation improved ORS trials, cereal-based ORS formulations, rice-based ORS trials, glucose-ORS with reduced osmolarity are summarised in the article to have a look of every pros and cons of oral rehydration therapy (ORT). Since the adoption of ORT, estimates of deaths due to diarrhoea in children below 5 years of age have fallen dramatically from 4.6 million in 1980 to 1.8 million in the year 2000.
14580685	MGN-3, an arabinoxylan extracted from rice bran that is treated enzymatically with an extract from Shiitaki mushrooms, is an effective biological response modifier that increases NK cell activity, and potentiates the activity of conventional chemotherapeutic agents. In this study, we investigated the effect of MGN-3 on death receptor-induced apoptosis in the human leukemic HUT 78 cell line. HUT 78 cells were pre-treated with MGN-3, and then were incubated with the agonistic antibody against death receptor (Fas, CD95). Apoptosis was determined by the propidium iodide technique using FACScan. Activation of caspase 3, caspase 8, and caspase 9 was determined by flow cytometry. Mitochondrial membrane potential was measured with DIOC(6) dye using FACScan. Expression of CD95 and Bcl-2 were measured by flow cytometry. In a dose-dependent manner, MGN-3 enhanced anti-CD95 antibody-induced apoptosis. Increased cell death was correlated with increased depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential and increased activation of caspase 3, caspase 8, and caspase 9. MGN-3 treatment had no effect on the level of expression of CD95, but it caused down regulation of Bcl-2 expression. These results suggest that MGN-3 increases the susceptibility of cancer cells to undergo apoptosis mediated by death ligands, which may be relevant for anti-cancer activities.
14580794	To improve detection efficiency and result accuracy, four screening primer pairs, four identifying primer pairs, one common primer pair and corresponding probes were designed for the development of multiplex polymerase chain reaction/membrane hybridization assay (MPCR-MHA) for detection of the foreign genes insert in genetically modified organisms (GMOs). After detecting condition and parameter were optimized and determined, MPCR reactions were developed for amplifying several target genes simultaneously in one tube. Primers were labeled with biotin at the 5'-end; biotinylated MPCR products were detected by hybridization to the oligonucleotide probes immobilized on a membrane with subsequent colorimetric detection to confirm hybridization. The testing of screening primers can judge whether the sample contains GMOs, and that of identifying primers can further judge what kinds of trait genes are contained in the sample. We detected nine soybean samples, six maize samples, seven potato samples and two rice samples by the MPCR-MHA method; at the same time we also detected them with single PCR-MHA method. The results between two methods have good consistency.
14581626	Phospholipase D (PLD) has emerged as an important enzyme involved in signal transduction, stress responses, protein trafficking, and membrane metabolism. This report describes the cloning and characterization of three novel PLD genes from rice, designated RPLD3, RPLD4 and RPLD5. The rice PLDs, including the previously isolated RPLD1 and RPLD2, are similar to PLD subfamilies of Arabidopsis: Based on sequence homology and domain conservation, RPLD1 is most similar to the PLDalpha subfamily of PLDs while RPLD5 most closely resembles the PLDdelta type. RPLD2, 3 and 4 represent a unique subfamily, although they are most similar to PLDalpha. RPLD1 is located on chromosome 1, RPLD5 on chromosome 3, and RPLD2, RPLD3, and RPLD4 are tandemly arrayed on chromosome 5. Transcriptional analysis reveals that RPLD1, present in healthy rice vegetative tissues, is induced rapidly but transiently in wounded leaf tissues. RPLD2, also induced by wounding, is present at lower levels but for a more prolonged duration than RPLD1. Immunolocalization with peptide specific antibodies to each of the five PLDs was used to demonstrate that the isoforms have overlapping but distinct patterns of distribution in healthy rice cells. RPLD1 was detected in mesophyll cell wall, membranes, and chloroplasts, whereas RPLD3 and RPLD4 were located predominantly in the chloroplasts. Labeling of RPLD2 and RPLD5 was sparse, and was most concentrated in the secondary walls of xylem (RPLD2) and guard cells (RPLD2 and RPLD5). This combined information on structural features, expression profiles, and cellular localization will assist the basis for dissection of PLD isoform function in rice.
14581635	Saline and osmotic stress are the main abiotic factors limiting the productivity of rice and other crop plants. Although both coincide in generating water deficit and affect many aspects of plant growth and development similarly, some effects of salinity are distinctively related to the ionic component of salt stress. At the cellular level, dessication tolerance is largely dependent on the cell's ability for osmotic adjustment. Here, we have studied the effects of saline and osmotic stress on endocytosis by rice cells, to investigate the common and distinctive effects of saline-generated stress and osmotically generated stress, and the possible involvement of endocytosis in tolerance mechanisms. For this purpose, we have used rice cell lines with different levels of tolerance and biotinylated bovine serum albumin (bBSA) as an endocytic marker, which in our previous experiments has been shown to enter rice cells by a process with the characteristics of receptor-mediated endocytosis. Our results indicate that the pattern of uptake is common to both types of stress. Thus, when rice cells were subjected to saline or osmotic stress there was an initial dose-dependent inhibition of uptake. However, after more extended stress periods, there was an activation of uptake in the stressed cells. This late activation appears mainly related to the inhibition of growth commonly caused by the different stress agents used in this study. When using cell lines with different degrees of tolerance, the level of uptake activation varied as a function of the type of stress. Thus, under osmotic stress, a higher stress tolerance was directly related to a higher bBSA uptake, while the opposite occurred under saline stress. The possible role of endocytosis in the cellular responses to osmotic and saline stress is discussed.
14582648	We describe a simple, rapid method for protein complex purification in planta. Using a biotin peptide as an affinity tag with TATA-box binding protein (TBP), 86 unique proteins present in the purified complex were identified by tandem mass spectrometry. We identified proteins known to be associated with TBP, and many other proteins involved in pre-mRNA processing and chromatin remodeling. The identification of these novel protein-protein associations will upon further investigations provide new insights into the mechanisms of mRNA transcription and pre-mRNA processing.
14583095	Novel ZGLs (zwitterionic glycosphingolipids) have been found in and extracted from the mycelia of filamentous fungi (Acremonium sp.) isolated from soil. Five ZGLs (ZGL1-ZGL5) were structurally elucidated by sugar compositional analysis, methylation analysis, periodate oxidation, matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization-time-of-flight MS, (1)H-NMR spectroscopy and fast-atom bombardment MS. Their chemical structures were as follows: GlcN(alpha1-2)Ins1-P-1Cer (ZGL1), Man(alpha1-6)GlcN(alpha1-2)Ins1-P-1Cer (ZGL2), Man(alpha1-6)Man(alpha1-6)GlcN(alpha1-2)Ins1-P-1Cer (ZGL3), PC-->6Man(alpha1-6)GlcN(alpha1-2)Ins1- P -1Cer (ZGL4), and PC-->6Man(alpha1-6)Man(alpha1-6)GlcN(alpha1-2)Ins1-P-1Cer (ZGL5) (where Cer is ceramide and PC is phosphocholine). In addition, one acidic glycosphingolipid, which was the precursor of ZGLs, was also characterized as inositol-phosphoceramide. The core structure of the ZGLs, GlcN(alpha1-2)Ins1- P, is rather different from those found in other fungi, such as Man(alpha1-2)Ins1- P and Man(alpha1-6)Ins1- P. Interestingly, the terminal mannose residue of ZGL4 and ZGL5 was modified further with a PC group. The presence of PC-containing glycosylinositol-phosphoceramides has not been reported previously in any organism. The ceramide constituents of both ZGLs and acidic glycosphingolipid were essentially the same, and consisted of a 4-hydroxyoctadecasphinganine (phytosphingosine) as the sole sphingoid base and 2-hydroxytetracosanoic acid (>90%) as the major fatty acid. ZGLs were found to cause cell death in suspensions of cultured rice cells. The cell death-inducing activity of ZGLs is probably due to the characteristic glycan moiety of Man(alpha1-6)GlcN, and PC-containing ZGLs had high activity. This study is the first to demonstrate that fungal glycosylinositol-phosphoceramides induce cell death in cultured rice cells.
14584742	To determine taurine status in a large group of Newfoundlands related by environment, diet, or breeding to a dog with dilated cardiomyopathy and taurine deficiency. Prospective study. 19 privately owned Newfoundlands between 5 months and 11.5 years old that had been fed commercial dry diets meeting established nutrient recommendations. Diet histories were obtained, and blood, plasma, and urine taurine concentrations and plasma methionine and cysteine concentrations were measured. In 8 dogs, taurine concentrations were measured before and after supplementation with methionine for 30 days. Ophthalmic examinations were performed in 16 dogs; echocardiography was performed in 6 dogs that were taurine deficient. Plasma taurine concentrations ranged from 3 to 228 nmol/mL. Twelve dogs had concentrations < 40 nmol/mL and were considered taurine deficient. For dogs with plasma concentrations < 40 nmol/mL, there was a significant linear correlation between plasma and blood taurine concentrations. For dogs with plasma concentrations > 40 nmol/mL, blood taurine concentrations did not vary substantially. Taurine-deficient dogs had been fed lamb meal and rice diets. Retinal degeneration, dilated cardiomyopathy, and cystinuria were not found in any dog examined for these conditions. The taurine deficiency was reversed by a change in diet or methionine supplementation. Results indicate a high prevalence of taurine deficiency among an environmentally and genetically related cohort of Newfoundlands fed apparently complete and balanced diets. Blood taurine concentrations indicative of taurine deficiency in Newfoundlands may be substantially less than concentrations indicative of a deficiency in cats.
14584743	To determine signalment, history, clinical signs, blood and plasma taurine concentrations, electrocardiographic and echocardiographic findings, treatment, and outcome of dogs with low blood or plasma taurine concentrations and dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Retrospective study. 12 client-owned dogs with low blood or plasma taurine concentrations and DCM. Medical records were reviewed, and clinical data were obtained. All 12 dogs were being fed a commercial dry diet containing lamb meal, rice, or both as primary ingredients. Cardiac function and plasma taurine concentration improved with treatment and taurine supplementation. Seven of the 12 dogs that were still alive at the time of the study were receiving no cardiac medications except taurine. Results suggest that consumption of certain commercial diets may be associated with low blood or plasma taurine concentrations and DCM in dogs. Taurine supplementation may result in prolonged survival times in these dogs, which is not typical for dogs with DCM. Samples should be submitted for measurement of blood and plasma taurine concentrations in dogs with DCM, and taurine supplementation is recommended while results of these analyses are pending.
1458505	Cancer of the esophagus has a more varied geographical distribution and incidence than any other commonly occurring cancer. Its incidence rate is increasing in many countries, especially among males. Esophageal cancer has been found to be associated with the consumption of alcohol and tobacco, particularly when combined, and in the last decade the role of nutrition and diet in the etiology of this disease has attracted worldwide attention. Regions with a large incidence of this disease are generally located in poor parts of the world, and their inhabitants share several dietary characteristics. They subsist on a diet high in starch and almost without fresh fruit or vegetables, eat rapidly without sufficient mastication, and consume many foods (rice gruel) and drinks (tea) at very high temperatures. Hard and scratchy foods also are consumed frequently. In the high-risk region of northern Iran, where the frequency of esophageal cancer is higher among women than men, the main food during pregnancy contains strong black pepper and sharp crushed pomegranate seeds, which irritate the esophagus.
14585627	Brewery waste (brewer's grains) was used at four different levels (10%, 20%, 30% and 40% w/w) replacing rice bran in fish diet under a semi-intensive culture system and its impact on the growth of catla, Catla catla; rohu, Labeo rohita and mrigal, Cirrhina mrigala, was studied. Growth in terms of body weight gain was maximum in C. catla and L. rohita fed on a diet containing 30% brewery waste in the feed, whereas C. mrigala, fed on a diet containing brewery waste at the above mentioned levels showed poorer growth than the control. A better growth performance was attributed to better absorption and utilization ability.
14586739	The pathogenesis of itai-itai disease continues to be controversial, although cadmium (Cd) poisoning which arises via polluted water and rice in Japan is likely involved. Until recently, however, a well-defined animal model for Cd intoxication was not available. An animal model for itai-itai disease was produced in rats by low-dose Cd treatment, intraperitoneally for a period of 70-80 weeks. Osteomalacia followed the renal damage. A gene deletion in the mitochondrial DNA was found in the mitochondria of the proximal tubule cells of rats with chronic Cd intoxication, as was shown by the increased smaller PCR product seen by gel electrophoresis in one DNA region, where ATPase and cytochrome oxidase genes are located. However, the PCR product was different from that seen with a gene deletion associated with aging: del4834bp. Renal damage from Cd intoxication initially caused mitochondrial dysfunction indicated by the disturbance in reabsorption in the proximal tubules and decreased amounts of ATP, ATPase, and cytochrome oxidase with gradually progressing tubular proteinuria, and, finally, chronic renal failure with tubulointerstitial damage throughout the renal cortex. These gave rise to osteomalacia, subsequently. We concluded that in Cd poisoning, a mitochondrial gene deletion in the mitochondria of the proximal tubule cells was the primary event for the pathogenesis of osteomalacia in itai-itai disease.
14586926	This report focuses on diagnosis and management of a meniscus tear of unknown etiology in a functionally impaired patient. The patient was a 21-year-old man diagnosed with viral meningoencephalitis and postvaccinal central pontine myelinolysis, who experienced respiratory failure and required prolonged mechanical ventilation. He was in a comatose state for approximately 1.5 months. He presented to our facility 3 weeks after coma complaining of left knee pain and limited range of motion (ROM). Diagnostic workup, including magnetic resonance imaging, showed a grade II posterior horn medial meniscus tear and lateral tibial stress injury of the left knee. Management of the meniscus tear included the RICE protocol (rest, ice, compression, elevation), therapeutic ultrasound, and physical therapy. The patient responded extremely well to initial ultrasound therapy, with decreased pain and increased ROM of the left knee, which allowed him to make significant functional gains and to make overall progress in our comprehensive acute rehabilitation program. To date, nonoperative care of acute meniscal injury is commonly considered to be unsatisfactory; however, in this patient it led to rapid functional gains. Thus, therapeutic ultrasound may be a beneficial modality to decrease pain and increase ROM of the knee in an acutely torn meniscus, which, in turn, would likely promote good functional progress in any rehabilitation program.
14587074	A sensitive flow injection chemiluminescence method is described for the determination of parathion pesticide, based upon its direct chemiluminescence reaction with luminol and hydrogen peroxide in the presence of non-ionic surfactant polyethylene glycol 400. Under the selected experimental conditions, the concentration of parathion is proportional to the CL intensity in the range 0.02-1.0 mg/L. The detection limit was 0.008 mg/L and the relative standard deviation was 2.8% for 0.2 mg/L parathion solution (n = 11). This method was successfully applied to the determination of parathion residue in rice samples.
14587306	Fusarium graminearum is a fungus frequently isolated from cereal grains. This study investigates the histopathological effects of dietary F. graminearum on rat liver. Treatment and control group rats were fed F. graminearum-inoculated and non-inoculated rice, respectively. After 14 days, all rats were sacrificed, and their livers analysed by electron and light microscopy. Electron microscopy of treatment group livers identified hepatocytes with well-developed smooth endoplasmic reticulum, swollen mitochondria, lipid accumulation, numerous vesicles containing electron-lucent materials and increased lysosomes. Many Kupffer's cells containing apoptotic bodies were also seen. Light microscopy identified hepatocytes from the treatment group with: cytoplasmic and nuclear pleomorphism; foci of necrosis; mononuclear cell infiltration; and presence of apoptotic bodies. These changes were absent in control rat livers indicating that dietary F. graminearum causes inflammation and parenchymal damage in the rat liver. This is the first histopathological study showing the association between F. graminearum and liver damage.
14592744	To investigate the production of cellulases and hemicellulases from Aspergillus niger KK2, solid state fermentation (SSF) was performed by using different ratios of rice straw and wheat bran. When A. niger KK2 was grown on rice straw alone as a solid support in SSF, the maximum FPase activity was 19.5 IU g(-1) in 4 days. Also, CMCase (129 IU g(-1)), beta-glucosidase (100 IU g(-1)), xylanase (5070 IU g(-1)) and beta-xylosidase (193 IU g(-1)) activities were concurrently obtained after 5-6 days of fermentation. The higher enzyme activities produced by A. niger KK2 is a significant advantage from the viewpoint of practical saccharification reaction. Cellulases and hemicellulases produced by A. niger KK2 might be applied to pulp and paper industry, feed industry and chemical industry.
14593804	Suspension cultured cells of six rice cultivars differing in their sensitivity to blast were treated with mycelial wall hydrolysates prepared from seven isolates belonging to different Pyricularia grisea lineages. Soon after elicitor addition, rice cells produced significant amounts of superoxide anion, which was rapidly converted into diffusible peroxide. Maximal effects were achieved at 50 mg L-1 elicitor. In all cases, a 7 to 13-fold increase in the basal rate of reactive oxygen species production was found. Neither differential effects among strains nor clear relationships between lineage and the resulting oxidative burst were evident. Interestingly, a good correlation was found between basal (and elicited) levels of peroxide generation and the overall tolerance of rice cultivars to the pathogen. About two days after elicitation, cell death occurred proportional to the amount of hydrogen peroxide released. Peroxide was required to trigger loss of cell viability, but the latter was not due to a direct toxic effect, suggesting the induction of programmed cell death. Results represent the first data aimed to develop in vitro tests for pathogenicity prediction of Italian blast lineages toward rice cultivars.
14593815	Internodal elongation in floating rice (Oryza sativa) is known to be enhanced by treatment with ethylene or gibberellic acid (GA3) at high relative humidity (RH). However, ethylene-induced internodal elongation is inhibited at low RH, while GA3-induced internodal elongation is hardly affected by humidity. We examined the effects of ethylene and GA3 on the rate of transpiration in stem segments incubated at 30% or 100% RH. Ethylene promoted the transpiration of stem segments at 30% RH, but not at 100% RH, while GA3 had little effect on transpiration at either 30% or 100% RH. We propose that the absence of ethylene-induced internodal elongation at low RH is due, at least in part, to ethylene-induced transpiration.
1459458	We have used a tobacco transgenic plant system to assay the structure/function relationship of phytochrome A (phyA), a plant photoreceptor. The amino terminus of phyA from different plant species is very rich in serine residues. To investigate whether these serine residues are required for phytochrome function, the first 10 serine codons encoding amino acid residues 2-4, 10-14, 19, and 20 in the amino-terminal domain of the rice phyA gene (phyA) were changed to alanine codons. The mutant (S/A phyA), as well as the wild-type phyA cDNA, was placed under the control of the 35S promoter, and the chimeric genes were transferred into the tobacco genome by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic tobacco plants expressing either wild-type or S/A phyA showed similar phenotypic alterations, including dwarfism and dark-green leaves. However, hypocotyl elongation experiments revealed that transgenic seedlings expressing S/A phyA showed a higher amplitude of the red light response with respect to the inhibition of hypocotyl elongation. The observed difference is not correlated with expression levels of the transgene. The chromophore is attached to the mutant phyA apoprotein (PHY A), and the mutant photoreceptor is photoreversible, giving a difference spectrum indistinguishable from that of the rice phyA. Our results indicate that the S/A mutant has a higher biological activity as compared with the wild-type rice phyA.
14594672	As part of a multicentre study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research, 2000 samples of rice were collected from rural and urban areas of 13 states representing different geographical regions of India. The samples were analyzed for residues of DDT [2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane] and different isomers of HCH [1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane, a mixture of isomers] by gas-chromatography. Residues of DDT and HCH, respectively, were detected in about 58 and 73% of the samples analysed. Medians of both DDT and HCH in rice samples were around 0.01 mg kg (-1). Concentrations of alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-HCH exceeded a maximum residue limit of 0.05 mg kg (-1) for each isomer in rice fixed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Indian Government in 4.3, 2.6, 1.7 and 1.2% of the samples, respectively. There is no statutory limit fixed in India for DDT residues in cereals. Its maximum residue limit of 0.1 mg kg (-1) in cereals recommended by Codex was exceeded by about 2% of the samples examined. Estimated intake of DDT and isomers of HCH through consumption of rice contaminated at their median and 90th percentiles constituted a small proportion of their acceptable daily intakes.
14594677	The total concentration of arsenic in different foods from south-east Spain was determined by hydride generation atomic absorption spectrometry. Mineralization was carried out with an HNO(3)-HClO(4) mixture in a thermostated sand bath. Arsenic determination was performed by the standard addition method. Analyses of NIST and CBR-CEC reference materials demonstrated the reliability and accuracy of the technique. The highest arsenic levels were found in seafood, cereals, meat and meat by-products. In meat and meat by-products, the total arsenic measured in meat was significantly higher than that in sausages (p<0.05). In cereals, arsenic concentrations in corn and white rice samples were significantly higher (p<0.01) than those measured in wheat by-products. Mean arsenic concentrations in cheese were statistically lower than those in other dairy products (p<0.01). New data have been provided on the total arsenic content of a variety of foods in Spain, which is important for making exposure estimates. The estimated daily intake of total arsenic in the Spanish diet was 221 microg As day(-1).
14594701	The shopping basket approach to food sampling, in which ready-to-eat food items from a shopping list were sampled at premises chosen at random, was adopted by 15 Environmental Health Departments in the Wessex region. A total of 2037 samples were analysed over a 30-month period. The microbiological quality varied considerably between food categories, with gravy and stock samples giving the highest proportion of satisfactory results. Sliced meats, cooked rice and sandwiches gave the poorest overall results. Whilst the majority of unsatisfactory results were due to elevated levels of indicator organisms (Aerobic Colony Count, Enterobacteriaceae and Escherichia coli), unsatisfactory or potentially hazardous levels of pathogens (Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus cereus, Clostridium perfringens or Listeria monocytogenes) were detected in 1% of samples. Salmonella was not detected in any sample. The shopping basket survey was considered to be a useful way of structuring local sampling, and the random selection of premises was found to be a considerable advantage over previous sampling plans. In addition, the survey drew attention to a number of microbiological problems with specific food types, leading to more detailed investigations.
14595101	Amino acid sequences from several thousand homologous gene pairs were compared for two plant genomes, Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana. The Arabidopsis genes all have similar G+C (guanine plus cytosine) contents, whereas their homologs in rice span a wide range of G+C levels. The results show that those rice genes that display increased divergence in their nucleotide composition (specifically, increased G+C content) showed a corresponding, predictable change in the amino acid compositions of the encoded proteins relative to their Arabidopsis homologs. This trend was not seen in a "control" set of rice genes that had nucleotide contents closer to their Arabidopsis homologs. In addition to showing an overall difference in the amino acid composition of the homologous proteins, we were also able to investigate the biased patterns of amino acid substitution since the divergence of these two species. We found that the amino acid exchange matrix was highly asymmetric when comparing the High G+C rice genes with their Arabidopsis homologs. Finally, we investigated the possible causes of this biased pattern of sequence evolution. Our results indicate that the biased pattern of protein evolution is the consequence, rather than the cause, of the corresponding changes in nucleotide content. In fact, there is an even more marked asymmetry in the patterns of substitution at synonymous nucleotide sites. Surprisingly, there is a very strong negative correlation between the level of nucleotide bias and the length of the coding sequences within the rice genome. This difference in gene length may provide important clues about the underlying mechanisms.
14595457	The effect of urea on the oviposition behaviour of culicine vectors of Japanese encephalitis was studied in rice fields. Gravid females had a strong preference for oviposition in urea treated areas in rice fields, while no such preference was exhibited in untreated areas. The egg laying declined in the area where urea treated water surface had a mechanical barrier, which allowed volatile fractions to escape, but prevented contact with the water. Urea was shown to act as an oviposition attractant/stimulant for Culex tritaeniorhynchus, but its role was not clear for Cx. vishnui, as the number of egg rafts obtained for the latter species was low.
14595685	Rice, the first cereal crop genome to be decoded, has attracted the attention of researchers worldwide because of its immense socio-economic impact on human existence. With the availability of the draft genome sequence of two major types, japonica- and indica-rice, "rice proteomics" has entered into the era of functional genomics. Although during the last decade an important but limited progress (mainly construction of protein datafiles) has been made in the field of rice proteomics, it is only recently that dedicated research groups have taken this challenge to systematically analyze the rice proteome at the cell (and organelle), tissue, and whole plant level. Important gains achieved by the accelerated technological progress in protein separation and identification will help in going beyond the simple cataloguing of rice proteins in realistic terms. In this review, we discuss the progress made in the field of rice proteomics to date and dwell upon the future direction/problems/approaches towards defining the rice proteome.
14595859	Cation-radicals and dications corresponding to hydrogen atom adducts to N-terminus-protonated N(alpha)-glycylphenylalanine amide (Gly-Phe-NH(2)) are studied by combined density functional theory and Møller-Plesset perturbational computations (B3-MP2) as models for electron-capture dissociation of peptide bonds and elimination of side-chain groups in gas-phase peptide ions. Several structures are identified as local energy minima including isomeric aminoketyl cation-radicals, and hydrogen-bonded ion-radicals, and ylid-cation-radical complexes. The hydrogen-bonded complexes are substantially more stable than the classical aminoketyl structures. Dissociations of the peptide N-C(alpha) bonds in aminoketyl cation-radicals are 18-47 kJ mol(-1) exothermic and require low activation energies to produce ion-radical complexes as stable intermediates. Loss of the side-chain benzyl group is calculated to be 44 kJ mol(-1) endothermic and requires 68 kJ mol(-1) activation energy. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) and transition-state theory (TST) calculations of unimolecular rate constants predict fast preferential N-C(alpha) bond cleavage resulting in isomerization to ion-molecule complexes, while dissociation of the C(alpha)bond;CH(2)C(6)H(5) bond is much slower. Because of the very low activation energies, the peptide bond dissociations are predicted to be fast in peptide cation-radicals that have thermal (298 K) energies and thus behave ergodically.
1459679	A longitudinal study was done on the infant feeding practices in a rural area. One hundred and ten infants were followed up from birth to 1 year of age by alternate day home visits, to inquire about the type of food, and frequency of consuming it. It was found that 100% mothers breast-fed their infants from birth to 1 year, almost every day. But, bottles containing various kinds of milk and starchy food were added to 60% of infants diets by 3 months, and 80% by 5 months of age. This additional food was given mostly in diluted form, which was more so in case of tinned milk. Family food such as rice and vegetables were given in 30% and 40% child days respectively from 6 months to 1 year. Rural people withhold protein food and fruits during infancy. It is concluded, that infant feeding practices in our population is improper and mothers should, therefore, be trained and motivated on weaning practices for timely and adequate supplementation to ameliorate the presently observed dietary deficiency and early malnutrition in rural Bangladesh.
14596907	A computer-based analysis was conducted to assess the characteristics of microsatellites in transcribed regions of rice and Arabidopsis. In addition, two mammals were simultaneously analyzed for a comparative analysis. Our analyses confirmed a novel plant-specific feature in which there is a gradient in microsatellite density along the direction of transcription. It was also confirmed that pyrimidine-rich microsatellites are found intensively near the transcription start sites, specifically in the two plants, but not in the mammals. Our results suggest that microsatellites located at high frequency in the 5'-flanking regions of plant genes can potentially act as factors in regulating gene expression.
14598326	Tricin is a flavone constituent of brown rice and rice bran, which interferes potently with the survival of human-derived breast and colon cancer cells in vitro. A specific and simple high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method was developed for the determination of tricin in human plasma with UV-visible detection. HPLC separation on Hypersil-BDS C(18) (4.6 x 250 mm) was carried out with an isocratic mobile phase of 52% methanol in 0.1 m ammonium acetate, pH 5.10, containing 0.27 mm disodium ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid and detection at 355 nm. The retention times of tricin and quercetin (internal standard) were 14.2 and 7.8 min, respectively. The assay was linear in the range 1-100 microg/mL (r(2) > or = 0.995). Tricin in plasma was efficiently extracted with 0.1 m acetic acid in acetone, and the recoveries were in the range 92.6-102.8% (n = 6) with relative standard deviation below 10% for three concentrations of tricin, 5, 10 and 100 microg/mL. The lower limit of quantitation (relative standard deviation <20%) was 1 microg/mL.
14599888	Although microsatellite or simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers have several advantages, few have been developed in fungi. The goal of this study was to identify and characterize SSR-containing loci in the filamentous ascomycete Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, and to add these markers to an integrated genetic map of this species [Theor. Appl. Genet. 95 (1997) 20]. We have constructed and screened a microsatellite-enriched small-insert genomic library as well as exploited both publicly available and one proprietary databases for identification of M. grisea SSR containing sequences. Twenty-four out of 49 primer pairs designed to amplify SSR, produced unambiguous polymorphic products in our test population of six isolates. The number of alleles at each locus ranged from two to six when assayed on 3% agarose gels. Twenty-three of the primer pairs amplified polymorphic products between Guy11 and 2539, the parents of a cross from which a genetic map for M. grisea has been established. Genetic analysis showed that all the markers segregated in the expected 1:1 ratio and map positions were determined for all 23 loci.
14601656	Oxidative burst, mediated by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), has been recognized as a key component of plant defense response during an incompatible interaction. To determine if elevated levels of H2O2 lead to cell death, activation of defense genes and enhanced resistance to diverse pathogens, transgenic rice plants expressing a fungal glucose oxidase gene (GOX) were generated using both constitutive and inducible expression systems. Constitutive or wound/pathogen-induced expression of GOX also allowed us to determine the effectiveness of these systems in conferring long lasting resistance to various pathogens. Both constitutive and wound/pathogen-induced expression of GOX lead to increases in the endogenous levels of H2O2, which in turn caused cell death. Elevated levels of H2O2 also activated the expression of several defense genes and these transgenic plants showed enhanced resistance to both bacterial and fungal pathogens. In comparison to inducible expression, constitutive expression of GOX resulted in 3-10-fold higher levels of the GOX transcript and the corresponding enzymatic activity. Such increased levels of GOX, which would result in elevated levels of H2O2, caused improper seed set and decreased seed viability in transgenic plants constitutively expressing GOX. Our results suggest that pathogen inducible expression of heterologous genes may be a practical and robust way of generating broad spectrum disease resistance.
14601665	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice. We have identified a novel virulence deficient mutant (BXO1691) of X. oryzae pv. oryzae that has a Tn5 insertion in an open reading frame (phyA; putative phytase A) encoding a 373-amino acid (aa) protein containing a 28-aa predicted signal peptide. Extracellular protein profiles revealed that a 38-kDa band is absent in phyA mutants as compared with phyA+ strains. A BLAST search with phyA and its deduced polypeptide sequence indicated significant similarity with conserved hypothetical proteins in Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri and Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris and limited homology to secreted phytases of Bacillus species. Homology modeling with a Bacillus phytase as the template suggests that the PhyA protein has a similar six-bladed beta-propeller architecture and exhibits conservation of certain critical active site residues. Phytases are enzymes that are involved in degradation of phytic acid (inositol hexaphosphate), a stored form of phosphate in plants. The phyA mutants exhibit a growth deficiency in media containing phytic acid as a sole phosphate source. Exogenous phosphate supplementation promotes migration of phyA X. oryzae pv. oryzae mutants in rice leaves. These results suggest that the virulence deficiency of phyA mutants is, at least in part, due to inability to use host phytic acid as a source of phosphate. phyA-like genes have not been previously reported to be involved in the virulence of any plant pathogenic bacterium.
14602651	Pseudomonas stutzeri A15 is a nitrogen-fixing bacterium isolated from paddy rice. Strain A15 is able to colonize and infect rice roots. This strain may provide rice plants with fixed nitrogen and hence promote plant growth. In this article, we describe the use of dapB-based in vivo expression technology to identify P. stutzeri A15 genes that are specifically induced during colonization and infection (cii). We focused on the identification of P. stutzeri A15 genes that are switched on during rice root colonization and are switched off during free-living growth on synthetic medium. Several transcriptional fusions induced in the rice rhizosphere were isolated. Some of the corresponding genes are involved in the stress response, chemotaxis, metabolism, and global regulation, while others encode putative proteins with unknown functions or without significant homology to known proteins.
14602665	Transgene escape through gene flow from genetically modified (GM) crops to their wild relative species may potentially cause environmental biosafety problems. The aim of this study was to assess the extent of gene flow between cultivated rice and two of its close relatives under field conditions. Experiments were conducted at two sites in Korea and China to determine gene flow from cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) to weedy rice (O. sativa f. spontanea) and common wild rice (O. rufipogon Griff.), respectively, under special field conditions mimicking the natural occurrence of the wild relatives in Asia. Herbicide resistance (bar) and SSR molecular finger printing were used as markers to accurately determine gene flow frequencies from cultivated rice varieties to their wild relatives. Gene flow frequency from cultivated rice was detected as between approx. 0.011 and 0.046 % to weedy rice and between approx. 1.21 and 2.19 % to wild rice under the field conditions. Gene flow occurs with a noticeable frequency from cultivated rice to its weedy and wild relatives, and this might cause potential ecological consequences. It is recommended that isolation zones should be established with sufficient distances between GM rice varieties and wild rice populations to avoid potential outcrosses. Also, GM rice should not be released when it has inserted genes that can significantly enhance the ecological fitness of weedy rice in regions where weedy rice is already abundant and causing great problems.
14605228	Genotypic differences in phosphorus (P) uptake from P-deficient soils may be due to higher root growth or higher external root efficiency (micrograms of P taken up per square centimeter of root surface area). Both factors are highly interrelated because any additional P provided by externally efficient roots will also stimulate root growth. It will be necessary to separate both factors to identify a primary mechanism to formulate hypotheses on pathways and genes causing genotypic differences in P uptake. For this purpose, a plant growth model was developed for rice (Oryza sativa) grown under highly P-deficient conditions. Model simulations showed that small changes in root growth-related parameters had big effects on P uptake. Increasing root fineness or the internal efficiency for root dry matter production (dry matter accumulated per unit P distributed to roots) by 22% was sufficient to increase P uptake by a factor of three. That same effect could be achieved by a 33% increase in external root efficiency. However, the direct effect of increasing external root efficiency accounted for little over 10% of the 3-fold increase in P uptake. The remaining 90% was due to enhanced root growth as a result of higher P uptake per unit root size. These results demonstrate that large genotypic differences in P uptake from a P-deficient soil can be caused by rather small changes in tolerance mechanisms. Such changes will be particularly difficult to detect for external efficiency because they are likely overshadowed by secondary root growth effects.
14605232	The elongation of rice (Oryza sativa) coleoptiles is inhibited by light, and this photoinhibition was used to screen for mutants with impaired light response. In one of the isolated mutants, hebiba, coleoptile elongation was stimulated in the presence of red light, but inhibited in the dark. Light responses of endogenous indolyl-3-acetic acid and abscisic acid were identical between the wild type and the mutant. In contrast, the wild type showed a dramatic increase of jasmonate heralded by corresponding increases in the content of its precursor o-phytodienoic acid, whereas both compounds were not detectable in the mutant. The jasmonate response to wounding was also blocked in the mutant. The mutant phenotype was rescued by addition of exogenous methyl jasmonate and o-phytodienoic acid. Moreover, the expression of O. sativa 12-oxophytodienoic acid reductase, an early gene of jasmonic acid-synthesis, is induced by red light in the wild type, but not in the mutant. This evidence suggests a novel role for jasmonates in the light response of growth, and we discuss a cross-talk between jasmonate and auxin signaling. In addition, hebiba represents the first rice mutant in which the induction of the jasmonate pathway is impaired providing a valuable tool to study the role of jasmonates in Graminean development.
14605428	To estimate rates of cadmium (Cd) uptake from the digestive tract and changes in Cd in biological specimens after intake of Cd mainly in rice. Twenty-five young non-smoking Japanese female volunteers (20-23 in age) were recruited and a 20-d experimental study was conducted. With polished rice containing 0.004 ppm and 0.340 ppm of Cd, Meal L and Meal H were prepared. Approximately 12% of total Cd in Meal L and 92% of total Cd in Meal H originated in rice. The volunteers ate Meal L for 11 d to achieve a stable intake-output balance of Cd. Fifteen of the 25 volunteers ate Meal H on the 12(th) day (Group D1), and the remaining 10 ate Meal H on the 12(th), 13(th) and 14(th) day (Group D3). All 25 subjects then resumed the consumption of Meal L to the end of the study (20(th) day). All meals, feces and urine were collected during the study, and Cd intake from the daily meals (Cd-I), Cd in feces (Cd-F) and Cd in urine (Cd-U) were determined. For measurement of Cd in blood (Cd-B), venous blood was collected from all volunteers on the day before the study and again on the 12(th) and 20(th) day; venous blood was also collected from 4-8 volunteers at additional time points. Mean Cd-I was 4.51 microg/d (range: 1.85-6.93) or 48.48 microg/d (range: 27.98-56.27) when they ate Meal L or Meal H. Cd-F and Cd-B exhibited faster responses to the change in Cd-I than did Cd-U. The Cd(uptake) rate, defined as (1-Cd-F(excess) /Cd-I(excess)) (Fig. 1), was 47.2% (range: -9.4-83.3%) in Group D1 and 36.6% (range: -9.2-73.5%) in Group D3, and the Cd(balance) rate, defined as (1-Cd-F(output) /Cd-I(intake)), was 23.9% (range: -4.0-37.7%) in Group D1 and 23.7% (range: -8.2-56.9%) in Group D3. Cd-F and Cd-B are better biological monitoring parameters for assessing change in Cd-I than Cd-U. The Cd(uptake) and Cd(balance) rates appeared to be higher than those in previous papers when ingested Cd mainly originated in rice.
14607226	For the first time, acetamiprid has been used to determine nucleic acid (DNA) using the resonance light scattering (RLS). The RLS of acetamiprid was greatly enhanced by DNA in the range of pH 1.6-1.8. A RLS peak at 313 nm was found, and the enhanced intensity of RLS at this wavelength was proportional to the concentration of DNA. The linear range of the calibration curve was 0-11.0 microg ml(-1) with the detection limit of 20 ng ml(-1). The nucleic acids in synthetic sample and in rice seedling extraction were determined satisfactorily. The interaction mechanism of acetamiprid and DNA is discussed. Mechanism studies show that the enhanced RLS is due to the aggregation of acetamiprid in the presence of DNA.
14607491	The possible use of activated rice husk and activated alumina as the adsorbents of Cr(VI) from synthetic solutions and the effect of operating parameters were investigated. The activated rice husk carbon was prepared thermally in two sizes 0.3 and 1.0 mm. The maximum removal of Cr(VI) occurred at pH 2 by activated rice husk and at pH 4 by activated alumina. The amounts of Cr(VI) adsorbed increased with increase in dose of both adsorbents and their contact time. The Freundlich isotherm was applied.
14608055	Previous metabolic studies of selenium used pure selenium compounds with pharmacologic activities unrelated to selenium nutrition. Healthy men were fed foods naturally high or low in selenium while confined to a metabolic research unit. Selenium intake was 47 microg/d (595 nmol/d) for 21 d while energy intakes and body weights were stabilized and selenium excretion and intake came into metabolic balance. On d 22, selenium intake was changed to either 14 microg/d (177 nmol/d, low selenium) or 297 microg/d (3.8 micromol, high selenium) for the remaining 99 d. The absorption, distribution and excretion of selenium in food were similar to selenomethionine, and distinctly different from sodium selenite. Daily urinary selenium excretion and selenium concentrations in plasma and RBC showed the largest responses to selenium intake relative to interindividual variation. Urinary selenium and plasma selenium responded most rapidly to changes in selenium intake, whereas RBC reflected longer-term selenium intake. Given the difficulty of 24-h urine collections outside a metabolic research unit, RBC and plasma selenium seem to be the most useful indicators of selenium intake. During the intervention period, the high selenium group retained 15 mg (190 micromol) of selenium, with approximately 5 mg (63 micromol) going into skeletal muscle. The low selenium group lost only 0.9 mg (11 micromol) of whole-body selenium but lost 3.3 mg (42 micromol) from muscle, indicating that selenium was redistributed from muscle to tissues that have a higher metabolic priority for selenium such as testes. Fecal excretion decreased by half, representing an important but previously underappreciated adaptation to selenium restriction.
14608089	The association of dietary patterns and obesity, particularly in Hispanics, is relatively poorly understood. This large U.S. population subgroup has a high prevalence of obesity and associated chronic conditions, and Hispanics are changing their dietary practices as they acculturate. Our objectives were 1) to identify dietary patterns among elderly Hispanics in Massachusetts, compared with those of non-Hispanic whites; 2) to associate dietary patterns with acculturation; and 3) to associate dietary patterns with total and central obesity. We used a representative sample of 449 Puerto Rican and 133 Dominican elders and a neighborhood-based sample of 243 non-Hispanic white elders, aged 60 to 92 y, from the cross-sectional Massachusetts Hispanic Elders Study. Obesity and central obesity were assessed with BMI (kg/m2) and waist circumference measurement, respectively. Acculturation was assessed by evaluating language use. Usual diet was assessed with a food frequency questionnaire specifically designed for use with this population. Dietary patterns were defined by cluster analysis of food group variables. We identified five clusters of individuals by dietary pattern, with proportionately greater energy intake from 1) fruit and breakfast cereal, 2) starchy vegetables, 3) rice, 4) whole milk and 5) sweets, respectively. Hispanics were less likely to follow the fruit and cereal or sweets patterns, and more likely to follow the starchy vegetables or milk patterns, than were non-Hispanic whites. Only Hispanics followed the rice pattern. Among Hispanics, acculturation was positively associated with the fruit and cereal pattern, and negatively with the rice pattern. Total and central obesity were positively associated with the rice pattern. Longitudinal studies are needed to clarify the causal nature of these associations.
14608398	A major QTL for resistance to Fusarium head blight (FHB) in wheat, Qfhs.ndsu-3BS, has been identified and verified by several research groups. The objective of this study was to increase the marker density in this QTL region using STS (sequence-tagged site) markers developed from wheat expressed sequence tags (ESTs) near Qfhs.ndsu-3BS. Because wheat chromosome 3BS and rice chromosome 1S are syntenous, the sequences of P1-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) and (or) bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones covering the sub-distal portion of rice chromosome 1S were used as queries for a BLASTn search to identify wheat ESTs most likely near Qfhs.ndsu-3BS. Sixty-eight out of 79 STS primer pairs designed from wheat ESTs amplified PCR products from the genomic DNA of Triticum aestivum 'Chinese Spring'. Twenty-eight STS markers were localized on chromosome 3BS by aneuploid analysis. Six out of the nine STS markers that could be mapped in the T. aestivum 'Sumai 3'/T. aestivum 'Stoa' population had higher R2 and LOD values for this QTL than the most significant marker reported previously. Therefore, leveraging genome sequence information available in rice for wheat genetics is an effective strategy to develop DNA markers for Qfhs.ndsu-3BS, and this strategy may have broad applications for targeted mapping of other traits in cereal crops.
14610885	Germination and subsequent hydroponic growth under salt stress (100 mmol/L NaCl) triggered an accumulation of six major stress proteins and resulted in a growth arrest of young seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa L.) cv. Bura Rata. Based on two-dimensional electrophoretic resolution, partial amino acid sequencing and immunodetection techniques, four of the salt stress-induced polypeptides were identified as LEA proteins. Under all experimental conditions wherein seedlings exhibited superior halotolerance, salt stress-induced LEA proteins were expressed at low levels. In contrast, accumulation of LEA proteins was found associated with growth arrest. When returned to non-saline media, seedlings stressed with salt for four days recovered immediately. Longer exposure to 100 mmol/L NaCl, however, progressively delayed recovery and reduced the number of seedlings which could recover from salt stress. Recovery from salt stress was consistently accompanied by degradation of the salt stress-induced LEA proteins. The results of this study show that LEA proteins accumulate during the salinity-triggered growth arrest of young Bura Rata seedlings and are mobilised during the recovery of seedlings from salinity stress.
14610892	Transient expression profiles for several chimeric beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene constructs were determined in tissues (young leaves, mature leaves and roots) of creeping bentgrass (Agrostis palustris, cv. Penn A4) following microprojectile bombardment. The constructs analyzed consisted of the uidA (GUS) reporter gene driven by four different promoters (ubiquitin 3-potato, ubiquitin corn, ubiquitin rice and CaMV 35S). The total number of GUS hits (or transient expression units; TEUs) were determined manually under a dissecting scope after histochemical staining for GUS. Results suggest that the ubiquitin rice promoter is most active in cells of turfgrass, regardless of the developmental stage or tissue-type. The ubiquitin corn promoter was the next best. Of the four promoter used, except for ubiquitin 3-potato, reporter gene activity was dramatically higher in mature leaves compared to young leaves. The relative efficiency of each promoter was about the same in roots and leaves. We have also analyzed uidA (GUS) reporter gene activity following microprojectile bombardment in transient expression assays with callus from two cultivars (Providence or Penn A4) of creeping bentgrass. Differences in the frequency of GUS positive hits were observed between cultivars up to 72 hours post-bombardment. However, this difference between cultivars disappeared after 72 hours post-bombardment. This information describing promoter functionality in bentgrass will be important when designing gene constructs for trait modification and when choosing appropriate cultivars for improvement through gene transfer experiments. This is the first in depth report on organ-specific and developmental gene expression profiles for transgenes in a turfgrass species.
14610893	GUS (uidA) reporter gene expression for two sugarcane polyubiquitin promoters, ubi4 and ubi9, was compared to expression from the maize Ubi-1 promoter in stable transgenic rice (only ubi9) and sugarcane (ubi4 and ubi9). Ubi9 drove high-level GUS expression, comparable to the maize Ubi-1 promoter, in both callus and regenerated plants of rice transformed by Agrobacterium. This high level expression was inherited in R1 plants. Expression from ubi4 and ubi9 was quite high in sugarcane callus transformed via particle bombardment. Expression dropped to very low or undetectable levels in the resulting plants; this drop in expression resulted from PTGS. PTGS in regenerated sugarcane plants also occurred with the maize Ubi-1 promoter. In sugarcane callus, ubi4 was HS inducible, but ubi9 was not. This physiological difference corresponds to a MITE insertion that is present in the putative HSEs of ubi9 but not present in ubi4.
14611153	The inhibitor of tyrosinase activity in black rice bran was investigated. The methanol extract from black rice bran was re-extracted with hexane, chloroform, ethyl acetate, or water. The ethyl acetate extract had the most potent inhibition against tyrosinase activity by 80.5% at a concentration of 0.4 mg/mL. Inhibitory compound in the ethyl acetate fraction was isolated by silica gel column chromatography, and identified as protocatechuic acid methyl ester (compound 1) by GC, GC-MS, IR, and 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy. Compound 1 inhibited 75.4% of tyrosinase activity at a concentration of 0.50 micromol/mL. ID(50) (50% inhibition dose) value of compound 1 was 0.28 micromol/mL. To study the structure-activity relationship, protocatechuic acid (2), vanillic acid (3), vanillic acid methyl ester (4), isovanillic acid (5), isovanillic acid methyl ester (6), veratric acid (7), and veratric acid methyl ester (8) were also assayed.
14611164	Raw and cooked whole grain sections of milled, medium grain California rice were compared for gross histological and morphological features using fluorescence and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Cooked and raw grains were compared and the differences were assessed by autofluorescence of the cell walls and correlating fluorescence to SEM images. Milled, raw grains contain fine cracks throughout the endosperm. Cooked grains have wider, more defined cracks, suggesting that they serve as channels for water migration into the grain during cooking. Water penetrates unequally into the grain during cooking: low water penetration produces dense regions with minimal starch gelatinization, and high water penetration produces large voided areas. The voids occur in the transverse orientation of the grain and are the main of cause grain expansion during cooking.
14611182	Prolamin extracted from rice flour using 55% n-propanol contained protein impurities. Reverse phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on a perfusion column R2/H was used to separate rice prolamin from other proteins in less than 5 min. Prolamin eluted as the major peak. The isolated prolamin migrated as a single band on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis using a 4-12% Bis-Tris gel. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry identified the rice prolamin as a 15 013 Da protein. The surface hydrophobicity (S(o)) of the HPLC-separated protein fractions was measured using the hydrophobic fluorescent probe PRODAN. A comparison was made with the surface hydrophobicity (S(o)) of corn prolamin and bovine serum albumin. Surface hydrophobicity values and solubility in 90% ethanol assisted in rice prolamin identification from other chromatographic peaks. The advantage of perfusion chromatography in purifying rice prolamin from other rice proteins included the reduced separation time, the speed at which the separation was carried, and the ability to regenerate the column in a short period of time and allow for more samples to be purified and separated.
14611960	Expansins are now generally accepted to be key regulators of wall extension during growth. Several alternative roles for expansins have emerged in which the emphasis of their action is on wall breakdown or softening in processes such as fruit ripening, pollination, germination and abscission. Expansins are commonly encoded by substantial gene families and have classically been divided into two subfamilies, referred to as alpha- and beta-expansins. Two further subfamilies have now been identified: gamma-expansins, which were first described in Arabidopsis, and delta-expansins, which were identified in rice and are absent from Arabidopsis. Both are truncated versions of alpha- and beta-expansins, with gamma-expansins representing the amino-terminal half of a mature expansin and delta-expansins the carboxy-terminal half of a beta-expansin. Functional roles for gamma- and delta-expansins have yet to be defined, although recent data indicate a signalling role for gamma-expansins.
14612572	Pollen fecundity is crucial to crop productivity and also to biodiversity in general. Pollen development is supported by the tapetum, a metabolically active sporophytic nurse layer that devotes itself to this process. The tapetum in cereals and a vast majority of other plants is of the nonamoeboid type. Unable to reach out to microspores, it secretes nutrients into the anther locule where the microspores reside and develop. Orbicules (Ubisch bodies), studied in various plants since their discovery approximately 140 years ago, are a hallmark of the secretory tapetum. Their significance to tapetal or pollen development has not been established. We have identified in wheat and rice an anther-specific single-copy gene (per haploid genome equivalent) whose suppression in rice by RNA interference nearly eliminated the seed set. The flowers in the transgenics were normal for female functions, but the pollen collapsed and became less viable. Further characterization of the gene product, named RAFTIN, in wheat has shown that it is present in pro-orbicule bodies and it is accumulated in Ubisch bodies. Furthermore, it is targeted to microspore exine. Although the carboxyl portion of RAFTINs shares short, dispersed amino acid sequences (BURP domain) in common with a variety of proteins of disparate biological contexts, the occurrence RAFTIN per se is limited to cereals; neither the Arabidopsis genome nor the vast collection of ESTs suggests any obvious dicot homologs. Furthermore, our results show that RAFTIN is essential for the late phase of pollen development in cereals.
14613765	A previously unspecified "starter" unit in the predicted biosynthesis pathway of 5-alkylresorcinols has now identified as a fatty acid or its equivalent, using an efficient 5-alkylresorcinol production system of etiolated rice seedlings. Feeding saturated, odd-carbon fatty acid ester substrates from C11 to C19 specifically and markedly increased the amount of the corresponding 5-alkylresorcinol homologs with even-carbon chains that are shorter by one carbon than those of the supplied fatty acids. The amount of these homologs depended on substrate concentration. Some of the homologs whose amounts increased had linear carbon chains and the dodecyl homolog was shown to be 5-n-dodecylresorcinol. Moreover, the 13C label in the dodecyl homolog that was biosynthesized from the [1-13C]tridecanoate substrate was localized on the C-5 carbon of the resorcinol ring. These results obviously show that the fatty acid unit acts as a direct precursor and forms the side-chain moiety of 5-n-alkylresorcinol via the predicted biosynthesis pathway.
14614563	Wide variation in ultraviolet-B (UVB) resistance is observed among rice varieties. In a previous study, three quantitative trait loci (QTLs) controlling UVB resistance were detected by QTL analysis, using backcross inbred lines (BILs) derived from a cross between a japonica cultivar, 'Nipponbare', and an indica cultivar, 'Kasalath'. Among them, qUVR- 10, a QTL for UVB resistance on chromosome 10, showed the largest effect. Plants homozygous for the Nipponbare allele at qUVR- 10 were resistant to UVB, unlike those homozygous for the Kasalath allele. To determine more precisely the chromosomal location of qUVR- 10, we performed a linkage mapping of qUVR- 10 as a single Mendelian factor using advanced backcross progeny. Advanced progeny testing of F(4) families enabled us to determine the genotype classes of the qUVR- 10 locus with high reliability. As a result, qUVR- 10 was mapped between RFLP markers C60755S and C1757S, and co-segregated with C913A. In addition, a sequence showing high similarity to the Arabidopsis cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) photolyase gene, which has been found to be involved in sensitivity to UV radiation in Arabidopsis and rice, was mapped in the candidate genomic region of qUVR- 10. This result suggests that the CPD photolyase gene is a positional candidate for qUVR- 10.
14615594	We characterized a rice dwarf mutant, ebisu dwarf (d2). It showed the pleiotropic abnormal phenotype similar to that of the rice brassinosteroid (BR)-insensitive mutant, d61. The dwarf phenotype of d2 was rescued by exogenous brassinolide treatment. The accumulation profile of BR intermediates in the d2 mutants confirmed that these plants are deficient in late BR biosynthesis. We cloned the D2 gene by map-based cloning. The D2 gene encoded a novel cytochrome P450 classified in CYP90D that is highly similar to the reported BR synthesis enzymes. Introduction of the wild D2 gene into d2-1 rescued the abnormal phenotype of the mutants. In feeding experiments, 3-dehydro-6-deoxoteasterone, 3-dehydroteasterone, and brassinolide effectively caused the lamina joints of the d2 plants to bend, whereas more upstream compounds did not cause bending. Based on these results, we conclude that D2/CYP90D2 catalyzes the steps from 6-deoxoteasterone to 3-dehydro-6-deoxoteasterone and from teasterone to 3-dehydroteasterone in the late BR biosynthesis pathway.
14615907	Genetic transformation of creeping bentgrass mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens has been achieved. Embryogenic callus initiated from seeds (cv. Penn-A-4) was infected with an A. tumefaciens strain (LBA4404) harboring a super-binary vector that contained an herbicide-resistant bar gene driven either by the CaMV 35S promoter or a rice ubiquitin promoter. Plants were regenerated from 219 independent transformation events. The overall stable transformation efficiency ranged from 18% to 45%. Southern blot and genetic analysis confirmed transgene integration in the creeping bentgrass genome and normal transmission and stable expression of the transgene in the T1 generation. All independent transformation events carried one to three copies of the transgene, and a majority (60-65%) contained only a single copy of the foreign gene with no apparent rearrangements. We report here the successful use of Agrobacterium for the large-scale production of transgenic creeping bentgrass plants with a high frequency of a single-copy transgene insertion that exhibit stable inheritance patterns.
14616141
14616871	Even hydrolysed cow's milk formulae may retain residual allergens and there are few nutritional options for children with cow's milk allergy (CMA) who also react to soy. To assess clinical tolerance to a rice-based hydrolysate in children with such a clinical presentation. Eighteen children (six girls and 12 boys; median age 5 years; range 1-9 years) with CMA, who developed clinical reactions to a soy-based formula after 2-18 months' treatment, were recruited between January 1998 and June 1999. Clinical evaluation was by skin prick test (SPT) with cow's milk, casein, lactalbumin, soy and rice allergen extracts, fresh cow's milk, soy and hydrolysated rice formula (HRF). Serology was investigated by CAP system technology and immunoblotting. Assessment of the rice formula was carried out by double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenge with rice hydrolysate. Thirteen children had positive SPT to casein, 10 to lactalbumin, eight to rice and two to rice hydrolysate. Positive serology was found in all patients' sera tested with cow's milk, with soy in 13 sera and with rice in seven. Double-blinded, placebo-controlled challenge with an HRF was negative in all cases. Children allergic to cow's milk and soy tolerate an HRF clinically. This suggests that rice hydrolysate may be used as a protein source for children with multiple food-induced reactions.
14617072	We constructed physical maps of rice chromosomes 1, 2, and 6-9 with P1-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) and bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones. These maps, with only 20 gaps, cover more than 97% of the predicted length of the six chromosomes. We submitted a total of 193 Mbp of non-overlapping sequences to public databases. We analyzed the DNA sequences of 1316 genetic markers and six centromere-specific repeats to facilitate characterization of chromosomal recombination frequency and of the genomic composition and structure of the centromeric regions. We found marked changes in the relative recombination rate along the length of each chromosome. Chromosomal recombination at the centromere core and surrounding regions on the six chromosomes was completely suppressed. These regions have a total physical length of about 23 Mbp, corresponding to 11.4% of the entire size of the six chromosomes. Chromosome 6 has the longest quiescent region, with about 5.6 Mbp, followed by chromosome 8, with quiescent region about half this size. Repetitive sequences accounted for at least 40% of the total genomic sequence on the partly sequenced centromeric region of chromosome 1. Rice CentO satellite DNA is arrayed in clusters and is closely associated with the presence of Centromeric Retrotransposon of Rice (CRR)- and RIce RetroElement 7 (RIRE7)-like retroelement sequences. We also detected relatively small coldspot regions outside the centromeric region; their repetitive content and gene density were similar to those of regions with normal recombination rates. Sequence analysis of these regions suggests that either the amount or the organization patterns of repetitive sequences may play a role in the inactivation of recombination.
14617076	Colinearity in gene content and order between rice and closely related grass species has emerged as a powerful tool for gene identification. Using a comparative genetics approach, we have identified the rice genomic region syntenous to the region deleted in the wheat chromosome pairing mutant ph2a, with a view to identifying genes at the Ph2 locus that control meiotic processes. Utilising markers known to reside within the region deleted in ph2a, and data from wheat, barley and rice genetic maps, markers delimiting the region deleted on wheat chromosome 3DS in the ph2a mutant were used to locate the syntenous region on the short arm of rice chromosome 1. A contig of rice genomic sequence was identified from publicly available sequence information and used in blast searches to identify wheat expressed sequence tags (ESTs) exhibiting significant similarity. Southern analysis using a subset of identified wheat ESTs confirmed a syntenous relationship between the rice and wheat genomic regions and defined precisely the extent of the deleted segment in the ph2a mutant. A 6.58-Mb rice contig generated from 60 overlapping rice chromosome 1 P1 artificial chromosome (PAC) clones spanning the syntenous rice region has enabled identification of 218 wheat ESTs putatively located in the region deleted in ph2a. What seems to be a terminal deletion on chromosome 3DS is estimated to be 80 Mb in length. Putative candidate genes that may contribute to the altered meiotic phenotype of ph2a are discussed.
14617083	We have isolated three genes that potentially encode a HAP3/nuclear factor-YB (NF-YB)/CCAAT binding factor-A (CBF-A) subunit of a CCAAT-box binding complex in rice (Oryza sativa), and named them OsHAP3A, OsHAP3B and OsHAP3C. These genes were expressed in various organs including leaves. In the transgenic rice plants with antisense or RNAi construct of OsHAP3A, reduced expression of not only OsHAP3A but also OsHAP3B and OsHAP3C was observed. These plants had pale green leaves, in which the amount of chlorophyll was reduced and chloroplasts were degenerated. Lamella was not well developed and accumulation of starch was not detected. The degenerated chloroplast formation was accompanied by reduced expression of nuclear-encoded photosynthesis genes such as RBCS and CAB, while expression of chloroplast-encoded genes was not affected or rather increased. These results suggest that one or more OsHAP3 genes regulate the expression of nuclear-encoded chloroplast-targeted genes and normal development of chloroplasts.
14617093	Nicotianamine (NA), a chelator of metals, is ubiquitously present in higher plants. In graminaceous plants, NA is a biosynthetic precursor of phytosiderophores and is thus a crucial component for iron (Fe) acquisition. Here, we show that three rice NA synthase (NAS) genes, OsNAS1, OsNAS2, and OsNAS3 are expressed in cells involved in long-distance transport of Fe and that the three genes are differentially regulated by Fe. OsNAS1 and OsNAS2 transcripts were detected in Fe-sufficient roots but not in leaves, and levels of both increased markedly in both roots and leaves in response to Fe deficiency. In contrast, the OsNAS3 transcript was present in leaves but was very low in roots of Fe-sufficient plants. Further, OsNAS3 expression was induced in roots but was suppressed in leaves in response to Fe deficiency. Promoter-GUS analysis revealed that OsNAS1 and OsNAS2 were expressed in Fe-sufficient roots in companion cells and pericycle cells adjacent to the protoxylem. With Fe deficiency, OsNAS1 and OsNAS2 expression extended to all root cells along with an increase in phytosiderophore secretion. In Fe-deficient plants, OsNAS1 and OsNAS2 were expressed in the vascular bundles of green leaves and in all cells of leaves showing severe chlorosis. OsNAS3 expression was restricted to the pericycle and companion cells of the roots, and in companion cells of leaves irrespective of Fe status. These results strongly suggested that NAS and NA play an important role in long-distance transport of Fe in rice plants, in addition to their roles in phytosiderophore secretion from roots.
14617831	The cyclic hexadepsipeptide beauvericin, initially known as a secondary metabolite produced by the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana and toxic to Artemia salina larvae, has been more recently recognized as an important mycotoxin synthesized by a number of Fusarium strains, which parasite maize, wheat and rice. Therefore, this mycotoxin may enter the food chain, causing yet unknown effects to the health of both domestic animals and humans. The cytotoxic effects of beauvericin on mammalian cells have been studied. We investigated the cytotoxicity of this compound in an in vitro invertebrate model, viz. the insect cell line SF-9 (immortalized pupal ovarian cells of the lepidopter Spodoptera frugiperda). Cultures of SF-9 cells in the stationary phase were exposed to beauvericin at concentrations ranging from 100 nM to 300 microM, for different periods of time (from 30' to 120 h). The effects on cell viability were assessed by the trypan blue exclusion method. After 4 h of incubation no significant decrease in cell viability was recorded in SF-9 cell cultures exposed to low concentrations of beauvericin, i.e. 100 nM and 300 nM. However, a slight decrease in viability (3.9%) was seen already in cells exposed to the mycotoxin at the 1 microM concentration. This effect became gradually more evident at higher concentrations (approximately equal to 28% at 30 microM, approximately equal to 50% at 100 microM, approximately equal to 68% at 300 microM). An even more pronounced reduction in cell viability was observed after a 24 h exposure. Under these conditions, 1 microM beauvericin caused an approx. 10% decrease in the number of viable cells, which became more significant at higher concentrations approximately equal to 23% at 3 microM, approximately equal to 47% at 10 microM, approximately equal to 65% at 30 microM, approximately equal to 90% at 100 microM, approximately equal to 99% at 300 microM). Therefore, the 50% cytotoxic concentrations (CC50) at 4 h and 24 h could be estimated as 85 microM and 10 microM, respectively. In time-course experiments, no effect of beauvericin (30 microM) on cell viability could be seen after exposure for periods of time as long as 30', 1 h and 2 h, respectively. In contrast, when SF-9 cells were exposed to the mycotoxin for longer periods of time, from 8 h to 120 h, we recorded a strong cytotoxic effect already in the low micromolar concentration range. Thus, the CC50 after both 72 h and 120 h exposure times was assessed as 2.5 microM. Higher concentrations caused a virtually 100% cell death. The data collected suggest that beauvericin exerts a substantial dose- and time-dependent cytotoxic effect on invertebrate cells, comparable to the effects described in mammalian cells.
14618392	Transposition of the maize En/Spm system in rice was investigated using a two-component construct consisting of an immobilised transposase source driven by the CaMV 35S-promoter, and a modified I/dSpm transposon. Mobilization of I/dSpm in somatic sectors was demonstrated by sequencing of excision products and isolation of flanking genomic sequences in T0 and T1 progeny plants. Since the transposition efficiency appeared to be considerably lower than that observed in maize or in other heterologous systems like Arabidopsis, we examined En/Spm transcription and splicing in the transgenic rice plants. Northern analysis revealed the presence of transcripts encoding the active TnpA and TnpD transposases, with the latter predominating; this is the reverse of what is seen in maize and Arabidopsis. RT-PCR analysis confirmed the occurrence of correct splicing and the formation of the two other alternatively spliced transcripts (TnpB and TnpC), as previously described for maize. Two alternative splice donor sites at the end of exon 1 were identified in maize at positions 578 and 704. We observe that rice is similar to maize in that TnpA is preferentially spliced at position 578. We also show that in Arabidopsis splicing occurs preferentially at position 704, as in other dicots like tobacco. These observations indicate differences in the splicing of transcripts of the maize En/Spm element between dicot and monocot hosts. Nevertheless, the ratio in which the transcripts for the active transposases are produced seems to determine the efficiency of transposition, irrespective of the host considered. A limiting amount of TnpA might therefore be responsible for the lower transposition activity of En/Spm in rice. Alternatively, reduced mobility of the modified I/dSpm element used may have resulted from the absence of critical sequences necessary for transposition. The influence of endogenous, autonomous, En/Spm -related elements present in the rice genome on the transposition behaviour of the exogenous maize element is also considered.
14620055	LGC-42153, 2-fluoro-1-[3-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-ylcarbamoylsulfamoyl)pyridin-2-yl]propyl methoxyacetate, is a new sulfonylurea herbicide for use in rice. Its breakdown and metabolism were studied in soil under flooded condition using radioactive tracers labelled at either the propyl group or the pyrimidine ring. The half-life of LGC-42153 was approximately 3.0 days. The mass balance over 120 days ranged from 94.0 to 104.2% of applied radiocarbon, and no significant amount of volatiles or [14C]carbon dioxide were observed. Solvent non-extractable radiocarbon reached 11 approximately 14% of applied radiocarbon at 120 days after treatment. The major metabolic reaction was the cleavage of the carboxyl ester bond to give 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl)-3-[2-(1-hydroxy-2-fluoropropyl)pyridine-3-sulfonyl]urea, which underwent hydrolysis of the sulfonylurea bridge giving 2-(1-hydroxy-2-fluoro)propyl-3-pyridinesulfonamide and 4,6-dimethoxy-2-aminopyrimidine.
14623941	Since root elongation is very sensitive to auxin, screening for reduced inhibition in root elongation has been an important method for the detection of auxin-resistant mutants. Two recessive auxin-resistant lines of rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica cv. IR8), arm1 and arm2, have been isolated by screening for resistance to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). arm1 displays a variety of morphological defects including reduced lateral root formation, increased seminal root elongation, reduced root diameter, and impaired xylem development in roots, while the arm2 phenotype is almost similar to wild-type IR8 except for a slightly reduced lateral root formation, impaired xylem development in roots and an enhanced plant height. Although the growth of arm2 roots exhibited a resistance to 2,4-D, it was sensitive to 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) as the wild type. At the same time, the arm2 roots showed a reduced [14C]2,4-D uptake while uptake of [3H]NAA was normal, suggesting that the resistance to 2,4-D of arm2 roots is due to a defect in 2,4-D uptake. To investigate the possible interaction between arm1 and arm2 genes, a double mutant has been constructed. The roots of arm1 arm2 double mutant were more resistant to 2,4-D and formed fewer lateral roots than those of either single mutant, suggesting that the two genes show synergistic effects with respect to both auxin response and lateral root formation. By contrast, all these mutants displayed the normal gravitropic response in roots, as did the wild-type plants. Taken together, Arm1 and Arm2 genes seem to function in different processes in the auxin-response pathways leading to lateral root formation.
14624339	Low-temperature germination is one of the major determinants for stable stand establishment in the direct seeding method in temperate regions, and at high altitudes of tropical regions. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) controlling low-temperature germinability in rice were identified using 122 backcross inbred lines (BILs) derived from a cross between temperate japonica varieties, Italica Livorno and Hayamasari. The germination rate at 15 degrees C was measured to represent low-temperature germination and used for QTL analysis. The germination rate at 15 degrees C for 7 days of Italica Livorno and Hayamasari was 98.7 and 26.8%, respectively, and that of BILs ranged from 0 to 83.3%. Using restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers, we constructed a linkage map which corresponded to about 90% of the rice genome. Three putative QTLs associated with low-temperature germination were detected. The most effective QTL, qLTG-3-1 on chromosome 3, accounted for 35.0% of the total phenotypic variation for low-temperature germinability. Two additional QTLs, qLTG-3-2 on chromosome 3 and qLTG-4 on chromosome 4, were detected and accounted for 17.4 and 5.5% of the total phenotypic variation, respectively. The Italica Livorno alleles in all detected QTLs increased the low-temperature germination rate.
14625794	Monascus, a traditional Chinese fermentation fungus, is used as a natural dietary supplement. Its metabolic products monacolin K and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) have each been proven to be a cholesterol-lowering drug and a hypotensive agent. Citrinin, another secondary metabolite, is toxic to humans, thus lowering the acceptability of red mold rice to the general public. In this study, the influence of different carbon and nitrogen sources, and fatty acid or oils, on the production of monacolin K, citrinin and GABA by Monascus purpureus NTU 601 was studied. When 0.5% ethanol was added to the culture medium, the production of citrinin decreased from 813 ppb to 561 ppb while monacolin K increased from 136 mg/kg to 383 mg/kg and GABA increased from 1,060 mg/kg to 7,453 mg/kg. In addition, response surface methodology was used to optimize culture conditions for monacolin K, citrinin and GABA production, and data were collected according to a three-factor (temperature, ethanol concentration and amount of water supplemented), three-level central composite design. When 500 g rice was used as a solid substrate with 120 ml water and 0.3% ethanol, the production of monacolin K at 30 degrees C increased from 136 mg/kg to 530 mg/kg, GABA production increased from 1,060 mg/kg to 5,004 mg/kg and citrinin decreased from 813 ppb to 460 ppb.
14630954	An early auxin-induced gene was isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica cv Nihonmasari) coleoptiles by a fluorescent-labeled differential display screen. The full-length gene contains conserved domains characteristic for the cytochrome p450 superfamily. This gene, designated as CYP87A3, was weakly expressed in dark-grown coleoptiles but was up-regulated rapidly and transiently when coleoptile segments were incubated in 5 microm indole-3-acetic acid. This induction by auxin could not be suppressed by cycloheximide. Depletion of segments from endogenous auxin reduced the amount of CYP87A3 transcripts. The CYP87A3 transcript level was rapidly, although transiently, up-regulated in response to light as well. The observed pattern of gene regulation might indicate a role in the suppression of auxin-induced coleoptile growth. The role of CYP87A3 is discussed with respect to auxin signaling in the regulation of coleoptile growth.
14630961	We analyzed 6749 lines tagged by the gene trap vector pGA2707. This resulted in the isolation of 3793 genomic sequences flanking the T-DNA. Among the insertions, 1846 T-DNAs were integrated into genic regions, and 1864 were located in intergenic regions. Frequencies were also higher at the beginning and end of the coding regions and upstream near the ATG start codon. The overall GC content at the insertion sites was close to that measured from the entire rice (Oryza sativa) genome. Functional classification of these 1846 tagged genes showed a distribution similar to that observed for all the genes in the rice chromosomes. This indicates that T-DNA insertion is not biased toward a particular class of genes. There were 764, 327, and 346 T-DNA insertions in chromosomes 1, 4 and 10, respectively. Insertions were not evenly distributed; frequencies were higher at the ends of the chromosomes and lower near the centromere. At certain sites, the frequency was higher than in the surrounding regions. This sequence database will be valuable in identifying knockout mutants for elucidating gene function in rice. This resource is available to the scientific community at http://www.postech.ac.kr/life/pfg/risd.
14631652	A subtractive cDNA library was constructed using rice (Oryza sativa L.) callus cDNA as driver and differentiating callus cDNA as tester. A novel cDNA fragment encoding RNase L inhibitor (RLI) was isolated by screening the subtractive library, which had a higher expression level in differentiating callus than in callus. The full-length cDNA of rice-RLI was obtained by the method of rapid amplification of cDNA ends, which contained a 1812-bp open reading frame encoding a 604 amino acid polypeptide. Homologous analysis showed that rice-RLI contained the conserved motifs (two repeated P-loops, two ATP-binding boxes and an iron-sulfur binding motif). The fluorescence quantitative PCR analysis showed that it was a constitutive expressed gene but up-regulated in abiotic stress (low temperature and NaCl treatment) and down-regulated under the treatments of NAA and IAA.
14631937	The present study was conducted to investigate the mechanism inducing the difference in the cell wall extensibility of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Koshihikari) coleoptiles grown under various temperature (10-50 degrees C) conditions. The growth rate and the cell wall extensibility of rice coleoptiles exhibited the maximum value at 30-40 degrees C, and became smaller as the growth temperature rose or dropped from this temperature range. The amounts of cell wall polysaccharides per unit length of coleoptile increased in coleoptiles grown at 40 degrees C, but not at other temperature conditions. On the other hand, the molecular size of hemicellulosic polysaccharides was small at temperatures where the cell wall extensibility was high (30-40 degrees C). The autolytic activities of cell walls obtained from coleoptiles grown at 30 and 40 degrees C were substantially higher than those grown at 10, 20 and 50 degrees C. Furthermore, the activities of (1-->3),(1-->4)-beta-glucanases extracted from coleoptile cell walls showed a similar tendency. When oat (1-->3),(1-->4)-beta-glucans with high molecular mass were incubated with the cell wall enzyme preparations from coleoptiles grown at various temperature conditions, the extensive molecular mass downshifts were brought about only by the cell wall enzymes obtained from coleoptiles grown at 30-40 degrees C. There were close correlations between the cell wall extensibility and the molecular mass of hemicellulosic polysaccharides or the activity of beta -glucanases. These results suggest that the environmental temperature regulates the cell wall extensibility of rice coleoptiles by modifying mainly the molecular mass of hemicellulosic polysaccharides. Modulation of the activity of beta-glucanases under various temperature conditions may be involved in the alteration of the molecular size of hemicellulosic polysaccharides.
14631940	We analyzed the changes in growth and cell wall properties of roots of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Koshihikari) grown for 68.5, 91.5, and 136 h during the Space Shuttle STS-95 mission. In space, most of rice roots elongated in a direction forming a constant mean angle of about 55 degrees with the perpendicular base line away from the caryopsis in the early phase of growth, but later the roots grew in various directions, including away from the agar medium. In space, elongation growth of roots was stimulated. On the other hand, some of elasticity moduli and viscosity coefficients were higher in roots grown in space than on the ground, suggesting that the cell wall of space-grown roots has a lower capacity to expand than the controls. The levels of both cellulose and the matrix polysaccharides per unit length of roots decreased greatly, whereas the ratio of the high molecular mass polysaccharides in the hemicellulose fraction increased in space-grown roots. The prominent thinning of the cell wall could overwhelm the disadvantageous changes in the cell wall mechanical properties, leading to the stimulation of elongation growth in rice roots in space. Thus, growth and the cell wall properties of rice roots were strongly modified under microgravity conditions during spaceflight.
14633021	Three previously published fungal specific PCR primer sets, referred to as the NS, EF and NL primer sets, were evaluated for use in compost microbial community analysis by PCR and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Primers were first evaluated based on their tolerance to PCR inhibitors. Due to its sensitivity to inhibitors, the NS primer set was determined to require a 10-fold smaller volume addition of compost DNA to PCR than the EF and NL primer sets, based on a logistic regression model for a 75% PCR success rate. Further evaluation of the EF and NL primer sets involved testing the resolution of PCR products from pure fungal cultures on DGGE. The NL primer set, which targets the more variable 28S rDNA, resulted in multiple bands for each pure culture. Thus, the EF primer set was used to monitor the microbial community during compost colonization studies, where three fungi were inoculated onto autoclaved grape pomace and rice straw compost. Of the three primer sets evaluated, the EF primer set was determined to be the best for PCR-DGGE of compost fungal populations; however, concerns with the EF primer set included the lack of sequence divergence in the targeted region of 18S rDNA and PCR artifacts which interfered with detection of inoculated fungi in the colonization studies. There are many factors related to PCR primers that need to be assessed prior to applying PCR-DGGE to fungal communities in complex environments such as compost.
14634153	We isolated a novel C9 position specific lipoxygenase (r9-LOX1) cDNA from developing rice seeds. The enzymatic features of r9-LOX1 resembled those of rice LOX-L3 known to be contained in rice germ and to have C9-specific LOX activity. However, the expression level of the r9-LOX1 gene was higher in imbibed seeds rather than developing seeds. A homology search against the rice nucleotide database revealed the r9-LOX1 gene to be on rice chromosome 3 (accession number AC093017). The restriction enzyme map of the reported genomic sequence agreed with the result of the Southern blot analysis for the r9-LOX1. The enzyme could be useful for in vitro synthesis of 9,10-ketol-octadecadienoic acid.
14634157	Microtubules play important roles in many cellular processes, such as cell division and cell elongation in plants. beta-tubulins, which are the basic components of microtubules, are encoded by multigene family in eukaryotes and their nucleotide sequences are highly conserved in protein coding regions. A homology search within the rice expressed sequence tag database identified at least eight beta-tubulin (OsTUB) isotypes including three novel OsTUB genes. Northern analysis using specific probes to 3'-UTR of OsTUB isotypes showed differential and tissue-specific expression. Seven out of eight OsTUB genes dominantly expressed in leaf sheath, while OsTUB8 was preferentially expressed in anther including mature pollens. The existence of anther-specific beta-tubulin suggests its unique role in the formation of microtubules during the anther and pollen development or pollen tube growth. Furthermore, transcripts of OsTUB5, 6 and 7 genes were significantly enhanced by gibberellin but all eight OsTUB genes were repressed by abscisic acid. Our results imply that OsTUB genes are differentially regulated by developmental and hormonal signals and different OsTUB isotypes might play special role in the growth and development of specific organs in rice.
14634161	In Arabidopsis thaliana, a number of circadian-associated factors have been identified, including TOC1 (TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION 1) that is believed to be a component of the central oscillator. TOC1 is a member of a small family of proteins, designated as ARABIDOPSIS PSEUDO-RESPONSE REGULATORS (APRR1/TOC1, APRR3, APRR5, APRR7, and APRR9). As demonstrated previously, these APRR1/TOC1 quintet members are crucial for a better understanding of the molecular links between circadian rhythms, control of flowering time through photoperiodic pathways, and also photosensory signal transduction in this dicotyledonous plant. In this respect, both the dicotyledonous (e.g. A. thaliana) and monocotyledonous (e.g. Oryza sativa) plants might share the evolutionarily conserved molecular mechanism underlying the circadian rhythm. Based on such an assumption, and as the main objective of this study, we asked the question of whether rice also has a set of pseudo-response regulators, and if so, whether or not they are associated with the circadian rhythm. Here we showed that rice has five members of the OsPRR family (Oryza sativa Pseudo-Response Regulator), and also that the expressions of these OsPRR genes are under the control of circadian rhythm. They are expressed in a diurnal and sequential manner in the order of OsPRR73 (OsPRR37)-->OsPRR95 (OsPRR59)-->OsPRR1, which is reminiscent of the circadian waves of the APRR1/TOC1 quintet in A. thaliana. These and other results of this study suggested that the OsPRR quintet, including the ortholog of APRR1/TOC1, might play important roles within, or close to, the circadian clock of rice.
14634728	The genetic control of induction to flowering has been studied extensively in both model and crop species because of its fundamental biological and economic significance. An ultimate aim of many of these studies has been the application of the understanding of control of flowering that can be gained from the study of model species, to the improvement of crop species. The present study identifies a region of genetic synteny between rice and Lolium perenne, which contains the Hd3 heading-date QTL in rice and a major QTL, accounting for up to 70% of the variance associated with heading date in L. perenne. The identification of synteny between rice and L. perenne in this region demonstrates the direct applicability of the rice genome to the understanding of biological processes in other species. Specifically, this syntenic relationship will greatly facilitate the genetic dissection of aspects of heading-date induction by enabling the magnitude of the genetic component of the heading-date QTL in L. perenne to be combined with the sequencing and annotation information from the rice genome.
14635768	The illudins are a family of fungal sesquiterpenes that have been studied as anti-tumor agents, and they also have antibacterial activity. Over a four-year period, 25 304 fungal isolates (approximately 97% ascomycetes and 3% basidiomycetes), were screened for antibacterial activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Illudin-like compounds with antibacterial and cytotoxic activity against tumor cell lines were observed in 10 basidiomycete strains. The isolates were recovered from different types of substrata using indirect methods and only formed sterile mycelia in pure culture. The isolates were genetically related but not identical, based on PCR-based fingerprinting techniques. DNA sequencing of the ITS1-5.8 S-ITS2 region of the strains revealed that nine had identical sequences, indicating that they were conspecific. The sequence of the remaining isolate was 96.34% similar, suggesting that it was a closely related species. The D1-D2 region of the 25 S rRNA gene of the two strain types was also sequenced. Both sequences were 99.39% similar, and Coprinopsis gonophylla (syn. Coprinus gonophyllus) was the closest match for both. Strains were grown in pure culture on a rice-based medium that allowed the development of basidiomata from one culture of the main strain type, which was identified as C. episcopalis, a close relative of C. gonophyllus. Both species (or strain types) produced different types of illudin-like compounds. Three novel illudins (I, I2 and J2) were found to be produced by the cultures identified as C. episcopalis, while only illudinic acid was produced by the other Coprinopsis sp. The taxonomical relationships of the Coprinops is species identified in this study with other illudin producers previously reported in the literature are discussed.
14635783	Plant cells are characterized by a highly active secretory system that includes the large central vacuole found in most differentiated tissues. The plant vacuolar H+-ATPase plays an essential role in maintaining the ionic and metabolic gradients across endomembranes, in activating transport processes and vesicle dynamics, and, hence, is indispensable for plant growth, development, and adaptation to changing environmental conditions. The review summarizes recent advances in elucidating the structure, subunit composition, localization, and regulation of plant V-ATPase. Emerging knowledge on subunit isogenes from Arabidopsis and rice genomic sequences as well as from Mesembryanthemum illustrates another level of complexity, the regulation of isogene expression and function of subunit isoforms. To this end, the review attempts to define directions of future research on plant V-ATPase.
14636998	Here we report the first genomic library of wild rice constructed on a plant-transformation-competent binary vector (BIBAC2) and transformation of the large insert DNA into rice via Agrobacterium. We selected Oryza officinalis for genomic library construction. The library consists of 55,296 clones and stored in one hundred forty-four 384-well plates. Random sampling of 140 clones indicated an average insert size of 71 Kb at a range of 15-235 Kb and 4.8% empty vectors. Four wheat chloroplast probes and four maize mitochondrial probes were hybridized separately to the library, showing that contamination with organellar DNAs is very low (0.61% and 0.04%, respectively). The binary bacterial artificial chromosome (BIBAC) library provides 5.3 haploid genome equivalents, implying a 99.5% probability of recovering any specific sequence of interest. A stability test indicated that the large DNA inserts were stable in this BIBAC vector both in host cells of Escherichia coli and Agrobacterium. Two restriction-fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers R288 and C820, which co-segregate with brown planthopper (BPH) resistance gene Qbp2, were used to screen the library, and identified seven and eight positive clones, respectively. The candidate clones of target gene isolated from the library are directly used to transform cultivated rice. After screening the Agrobacterium strains and helper plasmids, and using an improved procedure of transformation, a BIBAC clone with 120 Kb O. officinalis DNA insert was successfully transferred into the rice genome via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The system developed here should serve as source for gene discovery, gene cloning and genome-related research in wild rice.
14637356	The morphological characteristics as well as chemical composition of rice husks were evaluated by different techniques such as spectroscopy and thermogravimetry. The material, which is considered a by-product obtained from rice milling, was then investigated as a potential decontaminant of toxic heavy metals present in laboratory effluents. Studies using glass columns were carried out at room temperature employing 100 ml of synthetic solutions containing Cd(II) and Pb(II) at 100 mg l(-1) in order to study the effects of pH, flow rate and particle size on Cd(II) and Pb(II) adsorption. After establishing the optimised conditions, the potentiality of rice husks for removing Cd(II) and Pb(II) ions from 100 ml of laboratory effluent, presenting concentrations before treatment of 22 and 12 mg l(-1), respectively, was evaluated. The ability to take up other metals species, such as Al(III), Cu(II) and Zn(II), present in this effluent was also studied. According to the data obtained, under the optimised conditions (pH=4.0, flow rate of 8.0 ml min(-1) and < or =355 microm rice husk particle size), 30 g of husks were necessary to attain the permissible limits for effluent release, as recommend by the EPA, for those species evolved in this work (Al, Cd, Cu, Pb and Zn).
14638328	The cereal species, of central importance to our diet, began to diverge 50-70 million years ago. For the past few thousand years, these species have undergone largely parallel selection regimes associated with domestication and improvement. The rice genome sequence provides a platform for organizing information about diverse cereals, and together with genetic maps and sequence samples from other cereals is yielding new insights into both the shared and the independent dimensions of cereal evolution. New data and population-based approaches are identifying genes that have been involved in cereal improvement. Reduced-representation sequencing promises to accelerate gene discovery in many large-genome cereals, and to better link the under-explored genomes of 'orphan' cereals with state-of-the-art knowledge.
1463839	Transient expression of GUS in rice (Oryza sativa L.) mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens was characterized using binary vectors containing gusA genes that express minimal (pKIWI105 and pCNL1) or no (p35S-GUS-INT and pCNL56) GUS activity in bacteria. Four-day old seedlings obtained from seeds or immature embryos of rice were cut into shoot, root, and seed remnants and inoculated with various strains of A. tumefaciens. Transient GUS expression events were quantitated histochemically by determining the frequency of explants exhibiting blue spots indicative of GUS at four to six days after cocultivation with A. tumefaciens. A. tumefaciens strains that did not contain the gusA gene (At643) or a Ti-plasmid (At563 and At657) did not elicit any blue staining characteristic of GUS activity. Several parameters were important in obtaining efficient transient expression of GUS in rice mediated by A. tumefaciens. The growth regulator 2,4-D inhibited GUS expression if present during the seed germination period, but the presence of 6 mg/l 2,4-D during cocultivation of the explants with A. tumefaciens slightly enhanced GUS expression efficiency. All 21 rice cultivars tested expressed GUS after co-cultivation with A. tumefaciens. The GUS expression frequency was highest amongst the indica cultivars. The frequencies of GUS expression in japonica cultivars and in Oryza glaberrima cultivars (grown primarily in Africa) were generally one-half to one-third the level found for indica varieties. Leaf explants were more susceptible to A. tumefaciens-facilitated GUS expression than were roots or seed remnants. The vir genes of an agropine-type Ti-plasmid of A. tumefaciens were most effective in directing transient GUS expression in rice, whereas those of a nopaline-type and an octopine-type plasmid were less effective. We have also found that the frequency of transient expression of GUS was higher with pBIN19 as the precursor cloning vector than with pEND4K as the precursor cloning vector. Reasons for differences in effectiveness of these binary vectors are discussed. Using the conditions described here, A. tumefaciens-mediated frequencies of transient GUS expression in four-day old shoots of several rice cultivars were routinely in excess of 50%.
1463842	In an effort to improve the T-DNA-mediated transformation frequency of economically important crops, we investigated the possible enhancement effect of multiple copies of virG genes contained in Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains upon the transient transformation of celery, carrot and rice tissues. Four days after A. tumefaciens infection, we performed histochemical beta-glucuronidase (GUS) assays to determine the frequency of transient transformation of calli from celery and carrot, and explants from rice and celery. Additional copies of octopine- and agropine-type virG genes in A. tumefaciens strains containing an agropine-type Ti-plasmid enhanced the frequency of transient transformation of celery and rice. This enhancement ranged from 25% to five-fold, depending upon the source of the virG gene and the plant tissues inoculated. For both rice and celery, we observed a greater enhancement of transformation using A. tumefaciens strains containing additional copies of an octopine-type virG gene than with strains harboring additional copies of an agropine-type virG gene. Multiple copies of virG genes contained in A. tumefaciens strains harboring a nopaline-type Ti-plasmid had a smaller enhancing effect upon the transformation of celery tissues, and no enhancing effect upon the transformation of rice. In contrast, we obtained a three-fold increase in the transient transformation frequency of carrot calli using an A. tumefaciens strain harboring a nopaline-type Ti-plasmid and additional copies of an octopine-type virG gene. Our results show that multiple copies of virG in A. tumefaciens can greatly enhance the transient transformation frequency of celery, carrot and rice tissues, and that this enhancement is influenced by both the type of Ti-plasmid harbored by A. tumefaciens and by the infected plant species.
1463854	A cDNA library of rice (Oryza sativa L.) has been constructed from anthers at an early stage of pollen development. By differential screening of the library, we have isolated cDNAs of two genes, designated as Osc4 and Osc6, that are abundantly expressed in anthers containing tetrads and uninucleate microspores, but are not expressed in leaves or roots. Expression of Osc4 is absent in mature anthers, while Osc6 is present although the expression decays during pollen maturation. A comparison of the nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences with those in data banks has not shown significant homology to known molecules.
1463896	Applications of neem, Azadirachta indica (Meliaceae), to rice-fields were evaluated with the dual objective of controlling the culicine mosquito vectors of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) and enhancing the grain yield. Since crude neem products deteriorate under improper storage conditions, a laboratory bioassay was developed to screen neem cake powder against mosquito larvae, Culex quinquefasciatus. Only samples of neem giving over 90% bioassay mortality were used in field trials. When good quality neem cake powder was applied at the dose of 500 kg/ha, either alone or coated over urea, there was a striking reduction in the abundance of late instar culicine larvae and pupae. Only fourteen pupae were obtained over a period of 13 weeks in neem cake powder treated plots, and four in those treated with neem coated urea, compared with 101 in control plots. Both treatments were significantly less than the control, but on par with one another. In another field trial, neem cake coated urea was tested at 500 and 250 kg neem/ha in combination with water management practices. No reduction in efficacy was noted at the lower dose. Larval abundance in plots under water management alone did not differ significantly from the controls, but was significantly reduced when water management was combined with neem products. Two stable formulations, 'Neemrich-I' (lipid rich) and 'Neemrich-II' (azadirachtin rich), also gave good suppression of immature culicines. All the treatments with neem also gave higher grain yield than the control.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
14639121	The anti-tumour and anti-cholesterol impacts of tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF) were investigated in rats treated with the chemical carcinogen 7,12-dimethylbenz [alpha]anthracene (DMBA), which is known to induce mammary carcinogenesis and hypercholesterolaemia. DMBA administration to rats was associated with the appearance of multiple tumours on mammary glands after 6 months. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) are used as marker enzymes to monitor the severity of carcinogenesis. Although no tumours were visible on livers, hepatic ALP and GST activities of DMBA-treated rats were profoundly elevated in comparison to enzyme activities of normal control rats. Feeding of TRF (10 mg/kg body weight/day) for 6 months, isolated from rice bran oil (RBO), to DMBA-administered rats, reduced the severity and extent of neoplastic transformation in the mammary glands. Similarly, plasma and mammary ALP activities increased during carcinogenesis (95% and 43%, respectively), were significantly decreased in TRF-treated rats, whereas TRF mediated a further increase of 51% in hepatic ALP activity. TRF treatment to rats maintained low levels of GST activities in liver (approximately 32%) and mammary glands (approximately 21%), which is consistent with anti-carcinogenic properties of TRF. Administration of DMBA also caused a significant increase of 30% in plasma total cholesterol and 111% in LDL-cholesterol levels compared with normal control levels. Feeding of TRF to rats caused a significant decline of 30% in total cholesterol and 67% in LDL-cholesterol levels compared with the DMBA-administered rats. The experimental hypercholesterolaemia caused a significant increase in enzymatic activity (23%) and protein mass (28%) of hepatic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl co-enzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase. Consistent with TRF-mediated reduction in plasma lipid levels, enzymatic activity and protein mass of HMG-CoA reductase was significantly reduced. These results indicate that TRF has potent anti-cancer and anti-cholesterol effects in rats.
14639309
14640074	A novel osClpD gene, encoding a highly conservative ClpD subfamily member, was first isolated and characterized from Oryza sativa. The full-length cDNA of osClpD gene was 3140 bp and contained a 2884 bp open reading frame encoding a 938 amino acid protein. The phylogenetic tree and blast search showed that OSClpD belonged to the ClpD subfamily of the Hsp100/Clp family, and contained all protein motifs characteristic for the ClpD subfamily of Hsp100/Clp proteins. The real-time quantitative PCR analysis proved that it was inducible by water deficit and temperature stress in vegetative tissues.
14640458	Near-infrared analysis (NIRA) was applied to discriminate and determine the cadmium content levels of unpolished rice using canonical discriminant analysis (CDA). The overall correct classification rate was 85.2% for 318 NIR spectra, repeated three times for 106 samples. After a further improvement through decreased misclassification rates, NIRA could be useful as a rapid, nondestructive and convenient analytical method for primary screening and detecting of cadmium-polluted rice.
14641482	The genus Oryza comprises 22 species which are potentially useful as a source of genetic variability that can be introgressed into the worldwide cultivated rice, Oryza sativa. Molecular markers are useful tools for monitoring gene introgressions and for detecting polymorphism among species. In this study, cross-amplification was estimated among 28 accessions of 16 Oryza species, representing the genomes AA, BB, CC, BBCC and CCDD, using 59 microsatellite (OG, OS and RM series) and 15 STS (Sequence Tagged Sites) markers. All markers amplified at least one Oryza species, indicating different levels of transferability across species. Markers based on microsatellite sequences amplified 37 % of the accessions, with an average of 6.58 alleles per locus and an average polymorphism information content (PIC) of 70 %. For STS markers, the amplification level was 53.3 %, and the average number of alleles and PIC values were 1.6 and 10 %, respectively. These Results showed that although the STS markers detected a reduced level of genetic diversity, the transferability was higher, indicating that they can be used for genetic analysis when evaluating less genetically related species of Oryza. Among the microsatellite markers, an analysis of species with an AA genome showed that the OG markers produced the highest level of polymorphic loci (54.6 %), followed by RM markers (48 %). Highly polymorphic and transferable molecular markers in Oryza can be useful for exploiting the genetic resources of this genus, for detecting allelic variants in loci associated with important agronomic traits, and for monitoring alleles introgressed from wild relatives to cultivated rice.
14643987	A normalized design was used to examine the influence of independent variables (alcohol concentration, cooking time and temperature) in the catalytic soda-ethanol pulping of rice straw on various mechanical properties (breaking length, burst, tear index and folding endurance) of paper sheets obtained from each pulping process. An equation of each dependent variable as a function of cooking variables (independent variables) was obtained by multiple non-linear regression using the least square method by MATLAB software for developing of empirical models. The ranges of alcohol concentration, cooking time and temperature were 40-65% (w/w), 150-180 min and 195-210 degrees C, respectively. Three-dimensional graphs of dependent variables were also plotted versus independent variables. The optimum values of breaking length, burst and tear index and folding endurance were 4683.7 (m), 30.99 (kN/g), 376.93 (mN m2/g) and 27.31, respectively. However, short cooking time (150 min), high ethanol concentration (65%) and high temperature (210 degrees C) could be used to produce papers with suitable burst and tear index. However, for papers with best breaking length and folding endurance low temperature (195 degrees C) was desirable. Differences between optimum values of dependent variables obtained by normalized design and experimental data were less than 20%.
14643990	This paper summarizes the results of an experimental study on combustion of three distinct biomass fuels (sawdust, rice husk and pre-dried sugar cane bagasse) in a single fluidized-bed combustor (FBC) with a conical bed using silica sand as the inert bed material. Temperature, CO, NO and O2 concentrations along the combustor height as well as in flue (stack) gas were measured in the experimental tests. The effects of fuel properties and operating conditions (load and excess air) on these variables were investigated. Both CO and NO axial profiles were found to have a maximum whose location divides conventionally the combustor volume into formation (lower) and reduction (upper) regions for these pollutants. Based on CO emission and unburned carbon content in fly ash, the combustion efficiency of the conical FBC was quantified for the selected biomass fuels fired under different operating conditions.
14644501	We have identified and characterized two rice ascorbate peroxidase (OsAPX1 and OsAPX2) genes against diverse signals known to involve in defense/stress responses, using "2-week-old rice seedling in vitro model system". Oryza sativa ascorbate peroxidase 1 and 2 (OsAPX1/2) share 83% similarity to each other at amino acid level and belong to a small gene family in the rice genome. OsAPX1/2 show a weak constitutive expression in leaves. Their transcripts were up-regulated upon wounding (by cut), and diverse signals such as salicylic acid (SA), ethylene (using the ethylene generator, ethephon), abscisic acid (ABA), hydrogen peroxide, copper sulfate, protein phosphatase (PP) inhibitors, cantharidin (CN), endothall (EN) and okadaic acid (OA), and blast pathogen (Magnaporthe grisea) attack, but surprisingly not by jasmonic acid (JA). Interestingly, the OsAPX2 inductions were more potent and rapid than OsAPX1, whose expression increased gradually with time. These inductions were influenced by light signal(s), and showed requirement for certain de novo synthesized protein factor(s). Intriguingly, OsAPX1/2 mRNAs expression manifested a clear rhythmicity under light/dark cycle. Differential regulation of the OsAPX1/2 expressions by diverse environmental cues, including pathogen, and their developmental regulation in both young and reproductive stages strongly suggests their role in stress-signaling pathways and development in rice.
14645394	The rice pyruvate decarboxylase 3 gene (PDC3), which has no introns, was previously postulated to be a pseudogene because no PDC3 mRNA had been detected, even under anaerobic conditions. However, in this study, it was found that rice PDC3 transcripts accumulated in panicles after heading. Within anthers obtained from the panicles, PDC3 was shown to be transcribed in mature pollen by in situ hybridization. These results suggest that the rice PDC3 is a functional gene. Its product may play a role in aerobic alcoholic fermentation in mature pollen.
14645395	Aluminium (Al) toxicity is the major factor limiting crop productivity in acid soils. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of Al toxicity and Al tolerance of rice, cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism (cDNA-AFLP) was used for identifying Al-regulated genes in roots of an Al-tolerant tropical upland rice, Azucena, and an Al-sensitive lowland rice, IR1552. Nineteen function-known genes were found among 34 transcript-derived fragments (TDFs) regulated by Al stress. The results indicate that Al stress could induce the biosynthesis of lignin and other cell wall components in roots. Temporal expression patterns of 14 genes were identified between the two varieties. In silico mapping was performed for all the 33 unique genes. Two genes for a function-unknown protein and for a ubiquitin-like protein, respectively, were mapped on the interval with the common QTL (quantitative trait loci) for Al tolerance in rice on chromosome 1.
14645724	To identify cold-, drought-, high-salinity-, and/or abscisic acid (ABA)-inducible genes in rice (Oryza sativa), we prepared a rice cDNA microarray including about 1700 independent cDNAs derived from cDNA libraries prepared from drought-, cold-, and high-salinity-treated rice plants. We confirmed stress-inducible expression of the candidate genes selected by microarray analysis using RNA gel-blot analysis and finally identified a total of 73 genes as stress inducible including 58 novel unreported genes in rice. Among them, 36, 62, 57, and 43 genes were induced by cold, drought, high salinity, and ABA, respectively. We observed a strong association in the expression of stress-responsive genes and found 15 genes that responded to all four treatments. Venn diagram analysis revealed greater cross talk between signaling pathways for drought, ABA, and high-salinity stresses than between signaling pathways for cold and ABA stresses or cold and high-salinity stresses in rice. The rice genome database search enabled us not only to identify possible known cis-acting elements in the promoter regions of several stress-inducible genes but also to expect the existence of novel cis-acting elements involved in stress-responsive gene expression in rice stress-inducible promoters. Comparative analysis of Arabidopsis and rice showed that among the 73 stress-inducible rice genes, 51 already have been reported in Arabidopsis with similar function or gene name. Transcriptome analysis revealed novel stress-inducible genes, suggesting some differences between Arabidopsis and rice in their response to stress.
14646217	We report here for the first time on the construction of proteomes from wheat lemma at the anthesis stage. After transfer of lemma proteins to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes, seventy larger spots were subjected to peptide sequence analysis; the amino acid sequences could be described for forty-eight of these proteins. The result suggested that wheat proteins were less N-terminally blocked compared to rice proteins, which are known to have a much higher ratio of N-terminal blocks. We further analyzed the internal sequences of eight blocked proteins by the Cleveland peptide mapping method. Out of these total 56 amino acid sequences, forty-one could be assigned to the corresponding expressed sequence tags (ESTs). The expression profile of lemma proteins was generally similar to that of leaf, and the majority of identified proteins were related to cellular metabolisms. We analyzed the internal sequences of one protein spot present in lemma, which was not present in leaf.
14648106	To identify fungal stress-related genes in wild rice, Oryza minuta, we constructed a subtracted library using suppression subtractive hybridization in combination with mirror orientation selection. DNA chips containing 960 randomly selected cDNA clones were applied by reverse Northern analysis to eliminate false positive clones from the library and to prescreen differentially expressed genes. In total, 377 cDNA clones were selected on the basis of their signal intensities and expression ratios. Sequence analyses of these 377 cDNA fragments revealed that 180 of them (47.7%) represented unique genes. Of these 180 cDNAs, 89 clones (49.6%) showed significant homologies to previously known genes, while the remaining 91 did not match any known sequences. The putative functions of the 180 unique ESTs were categorized by aligning them with MIPS data. They were classified into seven different groups using microarray data-derived expression patterns and verified by Northern blotting.
14648202	In plants, gametophytic apomixis is a form of asexual reproduction that leads to the formation of seed-derived offspring that are genetically identical to the mother plant. A common set of RFLP markers, including five rice anchor markers previously shown to be linked to apomixis in Paspalum simplex, were used to detect linkage with apomixis in P. notatum and P. malacophyllum. A comparative map of the region around the apomixis locus was constructed for the three Paspalum species, and compared to the rice map. The locus that controls apomixis in P. simplex was almost completely conserved in the closely related species P. malacophyllum, whereas it was only partially represented in the distantly related species P. notatum. Although strong synteny of markers was noted between this locus and a portion of rice chromosome 12 in both P. simplex and P. malacophyllum, the same locus in P. notatum was localized to a hybrid chromosome which carries markers that map to rice chromosomes 2 and 12. All three Paspalum species showed recombination suppression at the apomixis locus; in the case of P. notatum, this might be due to a heterozygosity for a translocation that most probably negatively interferes with chromosomal pairing near the locus. A common set of markers that show linkage with apomixis in all three Paspalum species define a portion of the apomixis-controlling locus that is likely to contain genes critical for apomictic reproduction.
14648226	Suppression subtractive hybridisation was used to isolate 21 cDNAs (bmi1- bmi21) up-regulated 1-5 h post-inoculation (hpi) in a barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Pallas) near-isogenic line (NIL) P11 (Mla13) challenged with either avirulent or virulent isolates of Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Transcriptional changes at these time-points are crucial for the Mla-mediated hypersensitive response [W.R. Bushnell and Z. Liu (1994) Physiol Mol Plant Pathol 44:389-402]. Seven sequences were up-regulated by 1 hpi, when the pathogen has formed only the primary germ tube. Some transcripts were similar to genes with a role in regulating programmed cell death in animals, including NF kappaB and oxysterol-binding protein. Moreover, bmi7, similar to rice resistance gene Xa21, was rapidly up-regulated in both compatible and incompatible interactions, but was then down-regulated by 5 hpi in the virulent interaction. Only nine of the transcripts were up-regulated in mlo5 resistance in cv. Pallas NIL P22, confirming differential pathway induction between Mla13 and mlo5. However, eight sequences up-regulated in the Mla13 response in P11 were already highly elevated in uninoculated mlo5 mutant P22, suggesting that they may be negatively regulated by wild-type Mlo. Regulation of bmi sequences was investigated using salicylic acid, methyl jasmonate, ethylene, H(2)O(2), abscisic acid, wounding and a glucan elicitor. No single stimulus up-regulated all genes, suggesting either combinations of these stimuli, or additional stimuli, are involved in early Mla13 and mlo5 resistances. Whereas H(2)O(2) up- or down-regulated 17 of the transcripts detected in Northern analyses, salicylic acid stimulated only down-regulation of 5 transcripts.
14650323	The genetic map of rye consisting of 149 RFLP, 20 isozyme and 12 microsatellite markers was developed. Using the collection of cross-hybridizing probes, the presence of multiple translocations in rye genome with respect to wheat and barley genomes was shown. However, within large regions of genome a strict collinearity of marker order was observed that allow us to use the method of comparative mapping for an introduction of new genes. In the developed genetic map 18 morphological and breeding-valuable genes mapped in different rye populations were integrated. The comparative analysis of homeological loci in genomes of Triticeae species as well as in genomes of rice and maize was carried out. The genes controlling a number of morphological traits, plant height, photoperiodic response and winter/spring growth habit were shown to be conserve among cereals and to form clear homoeologous rows.
14651265	We have isolated and characterized a rice isoflavone reductase-like gene, OsIRL, whose expression is induced by a fungal elicitor. The OsIRL cDNA contains 1203 bp with an open reading frame of 942 nucleotides encoding 314 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsIRL has a putative pyridine nucleotide binding domain and is 68% homologous with the maize isoflavone reductase-like gene. Southern blot analysis revealed that OsIRL belongs to a small multigene family. Expression of OsIRL was induced by treatment with a fungal elicitor and jasmonic acid as well as by inoculation with rice blast fungus. Cycloheximide (1 microM), strongly inhibited the induction of OsIRL by the fungal elicitor, indicating that new protein synthesis is required. The protein kinase inhibitor, staurosporine (1 microM), had little effect, but the phosphatase inhibitor, calyculin A (1 microM), strongly inhibited induction. Treatment with salicylic acid (SA, 5 mM) strongly inhibited expression of OsIRL in response to fungal elicitor and JA, while abscisic acid (ABA, 200 microM) also strongly antagonized OsIRL induction by JA, but had only a weak effect on induction by the fungal elicitor. These results suggest that the expression of OsIRL is positively regulated by phytohormones such as JA, and negatively by phytohormones such as SA, ABA.
14651859	The availability of nitrogen often limits plant growth in terrestrial ecosystems. The only biological reaction counterbalancing the loss of N from soils or ecosystems is biological nitrogen fixation, the enzymatic reduction of N2 to ammonia. Some gramineous crops such as certain Brazilian sugar cane cultivars or Kallar grass can derive a substantial part of the plant nitrogen from biological nitrogen fixation. Our research on grass-associated diazotrophs focuses on endophytic bacteria, microorganisms that multiply and spread inside plants without causing damage of the host plants or conferring an ecological threat to the plant. This review summarizes the current knowledge on the diazotrophic endophyte Azoarcus sp. BH72, which is capable of colonizing the interior of rice roots, one of the globally most important crops.
14652184	A new model for energy exchange between translational and internal degrees of freedom in atom-molecule collisions has been developed. It is suitable for both steady state conditions (e.g., a large number of collisions with thermal kinetic energies) and non-steady state conditions with an arbitrary distribution of collision energies (e.g., single high-energy collisions). In particular, it does not require that the collision energies be characterized by a quasi-thermal distribution, but nevertheless it is capable of producing a Boltzmann distribution of internal energies with the correct internal temperature under quasi-thermal conditions. The energy exchange is described by a transfer probability density that depends on the initial relative kinetic energy, the internal energy of the molecule, and the amount of energy transferred. The probability density for collisions that lead to excitation is assumed to decrease exponentially with the amount of transferred energy. The probability density for de-excitation is obtained from microscopic reversibility. The model has been implemented in the ion trap simulation program ITSIM and coupled with an Rice-Rampsberger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) algorithm to describe the unimolecular dissociation of populations of ions. Monte Carlo simulations of collisional energy transfer are presented. The model is validated for non-steady state conditions and for steady state conditions, and the effect of the kinetic energy dependence of the collision cross-section on internal temperature is discussed. Applications of the model to the problem of chemical mass shifts in RF ion trap mass spectrometry are shown.
14652188	A quantum mechanical and molecular mechanical (QM + MM) direct dynamics classical trajectory simulation is used to study energy transfer and fragmentation in the surface-induced dissociation (SID) of N-protonated diglycine, (gly)2H+. The peptide ion collides with the hydrogenated diamond [111] surface. The Austin Model 1 (AM1) semiempirical electronic structure theory is used for the (gly)2H+ intramolecular potential and molecular mechanical functions are used for the diamond surface potential and peptide/surface intermolecular potential. The simulations are performed at collision energies Ei of 30, 50, 70, and 100 eV and collision angle of 0 degrees (perpendicular to the surface). The percent energy transfer to the peptide ion is nearly independent of Ei, while energy transfer to the surface increases with increase in Ei. A smaller percent of the energy remains in peptide translation as Ei is increased. These trends in energy transfer are consistent with previous trajectory simulations of SID. At each Ei the most likely initial pathway leading to fragmentation is rupture of the +H3NCH2-CONHCH2COOH bond. Fragmentation occurs by two general mechanisms. One is the traditional Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) model in which the peptide ion is activated by its collision with the surface, "bounces off", and then dissociates after undergoing intramolecular vibrational energy redistribution (IVR). The other mechanism is shattering in which the ion fragments as it collides with the surface. Shattering is the origin of the large increase in number of product channels with increase in Ei, i.e., 6 at 30 eV, but 59 at 100 eV. Shattering becomes the dominant dissociation mechanism at high Ei.
14652365	This research aimed to gain in-depth understanding of the experience of household food insecurity in rural Bangladesh and to develop a direct measure of it from this understanding. Using naturalistic, emergent inquiry, in-depth interviews were conducted with 21 rural women living in diverse situations using a semistructured interview guide. Two analytic strategies classified households on food insecurity and elicited themes that were the basis for classification. Survey questions were developed to capture themes, and were revised after review, field testing, and ranking and pile-sorting exercises. Four gradations of severity of food insecurity resulted, based on nine themes: meals, cooking, rice, fish, perishable foods, snacks, festival food, other expenditures and management strategies. The emergent conceptualization of food insecurity differs from that found from naturalistic research in other countries. The developed food insecurity measure has 11 questions. This research affirms the value of gaining in-depth understanding of household food insecurity. In many situations, this approach, rather than translating questions developed elsewhere, may best lead to suitable experience-based measures of food insecurity.
14654287	Thallium (Tl) contamination in soils poses a significant threat to human health due to the high toxicity of Tl and its ready assimilation by crops. This study is focused on high concentrations of Tl in soils in the Lanmuchang area of southwest Guizhou, China, which is related to natural processes of Tl-rich sulfide mineralization. Thallium contents range from 40 to 124 mg/kg in soils originating from the mining area, from 20 to 28 mg/kg in slope wash materials, from 14 to 62 mg/kg in alluvial deposits downstream, from 1.5 to 6.9 mg/kg in undisturbed natural soils and <0.2 to 0.5 mg/kg Tl in soils from the background area. These values indicate that both the erosion of natural soils from the Tl mineralized area and the mining activity are responsible for the distribution of high Tl concentrations in soils. Two other important toxic metals of interest, mercury and arsenic, also show high contents in soils, and are generally higher than Tl concentrations. Thallium concentration in plants exhibit species-dependent preferences. Thus, the enrichment of Tl in the edible parts of crop species decreases in the following order: green cabbage>carrot>chili>Chinese cabbage>rice>corn. The highest level of Tl in green cabbage is up to 500 mg/kg as dry wt., surpassing the values of Tl in the soils in which the green cabbages grow. In contrast, Hg and As are relatively less concentrated in local plants. The average daily uptake of Tl by the villagers of the Lanmuchang area through consumption of locally planted crops has been estimated to be 1.9 mg/person, which is 50 times the daily ingestion of individuals from the Tl-free background area. The daily ingestion of As and Hg from the study area are 0.03 and 0.01 mg, respectively. This indicates that Tl in the contaminated soils related to the natural Tl mineralization is being readily transferred to the human body through the food chain, and poses a significant threat to the health of the local villagers. Arsenic may pose a lesser health hazard, but mercury has an insignificant health risk. This study illustrates a real environmental concern related to land use and human health in areas containing high contents of Tl in soils associated with the natural occurrence of Tl-rich sulfides and coals, with or without mining activities. Thallium contamination in soils should be a critical parameter for proper land use and health related environmental planning and regulations.
14655356	The effects of several chemical-biological combined decomposing techniques (CBCDT) on the decomposition of rice straw were studied by fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). The results showed that under CBCDT treatments, rice straw could be better decomposed than in control. After seven days under CBCDT treatments, the straw turned into brown, and was easy to be broken down and obviously decomposed. FTIR spectra indicated that under chemical agent A-biological agent A combined treatment, hydroxyl, ketonic carbonyl, methyl, methylene, methane and aliphatic compounds decreased, proteins and amino acids completely decomposed, but aromatic compounds (specially substituted group) increased, and hence, the humification of straw was accelerated. The effects of different decomposing agents on straw were decreased in the order of chemical degrade agent A > chemical degrade agent B, biological degrade agent A > biological degrade agent B > biological degrade agent C. The chemical agent A-biological agent A combined treatment was the most effective among several treatments.
14655357	The effects of different cultivation practices-traditional flooding (TF), film mulching (FM), straw mulching (SM), and wetting cultivation (WC)-on Cd concentrations in Indica and Japonica roots and on Cd and Fe concentrations in iron plaque outside the roots were studied at different growth stages (tillering, booting, filling and harvest) with a Cd-polluted soil. The results showed that in all practices, the mean Fe concentration in iron plaque and the mean Cd concentration in roots of Japonica at tillering stage were 6.37 mg.mg-1 and 25.49 mg.kg-1, and greater than those of Indica, which were 4.52 mg.mg-1 and 16.37 mg.kg-1 respectively; at booting stage, the mean Fe and Cd concentrations in iron plaque and the mean Cd concentrations of Japonica were 1.60, 16.35 and 54.68 mg.kg-1, and greater than those of Indica, which were 1.06 mg.mg-1, 9.56 and 43.31 mg.kg-1, respectively; at filling stage, the Fe concentrations in iron plaque of Japonica in SM and WC were 0.89 and 1.00 mg.mg-1, and those of Indica were 0.63 and 0.30 mg.mg-1; in all practices, the mean Cd concentrations in iron plaque and root of Japonica were 15.23 and 73.68 mg.kg-1, and those of Indica were 3.46 and 52.38 mg.kg-1; at harvest stage, the Fe concentration in iron was plaque of Indica in TF was 1.21 mg.mg-1 and that of Japonica was 0.65 mg.mg-1, but that of Japonica in SM was 0.94 mg.mg-1 and that of Indica in SM was 0.55 mg.mg-1; the Cd concentration in iron plaque of Japonica in WC was 7.96 mg.kg-1, and that of Indica was 5.09 mg.kg-1; the mean Cd concentration in root of Japonica was 54.53 mg.kg-1 and that of Indica was 35.91 mg.kg-1 in all practices.
14655364	In this paper, cold-water irrigation multiplication technique was used to solve the difficulty of multiplying rice TGMS line 96-5-2S(Oryza sative L.) with double low critical temperature values under natural air temperature condition. The results indicated that irrigating rice TGMS line 96-5-2S with different temperature underground cold water from the stage of pistil and stamen primordia differentiation to the stage of pollen filling for 15 days, and keeping the water depth 18-22 cm, the seed set rate of 96-5-2S decreased with increasing irrigating water temperature. When the average temperature of irrigation water was 18.5-19.8 degrees C, the seed set rate ranged from 40.5% to 57.6%, and the yield ranged from 3.30 t.hm-2 to 4.35 t.hm-2. While the temperature was 20.5-21.3 degrees C, the seed set rate and yield sharply decreased to 2.5-10.4% and 0.21-0.90 t.hm-2, respectively. When the average temperature was 22.3-23.5 degrees C, both the seed set rate and yield were zero. Under the same irrigation water temperature (average 19.8 degrees C) and the same irrigating period (phase IV to phase VII), the seed set rate and yield of 96-5-2S with deep water irrigation (18-22 cm) was very significantly higher than those of 96-5-2S with shallow water irrigation (7-10 cm). Under the conditions of same irrigation water temperature (average 19.8 degrees C) and same water depth (18-22 cm) but different irrigating periods (15 days from phase IV to phase VII, 20 days from phase III to phase VII, and 25 days from phase II to phase VII), the difference of seed set rate and yield of 96-5-2S between 15-day treatment and 20-25-day treatment was not significantly different. It is confident that 96-5-2S could multiply with underground cold water irrigation. The main technique index was that irrigating water temperature should be 18-20 degrees C, irrigating period should be from phase IV to phase VII, and irrigating water depth should be 18-22 cm.
14655365	With comparison of the differences of light absorption and active oxygen metabolism between super-hybrid rice "Liangyoupeijiu" and its parents, this paper provided a physiological foundation of matching and grouping for cultivating anti-photooxidized hybrid rice. TPS-photosynthetic system and FMS2-fluorescence (Hansatech, UK) were used to respectively determine the photosynthetic rate and the chlorophyll fluorescence in the rice leaves that had been processed in artificial photooxidization. Meanwhile, the contents of chlorophyll, protein and malonaldehydic acid (MDA) as well as the activation of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and peroxidase (POD) were determined. The results showed that the photosynthetic rate of "Liangyoupeijiu" was 2.4% lower than that of its female parent, and 23% higher than that of its male parent. After eight days anti-photooxidization process, its chlorophyll content was higher than that of its female parent by 33%, protein by 15%, initial photochemical efficiency by 30%, SOD by 32% and POD by 100%, while its photochemical quince coefficient was lower than that of its female parent by 9% and MDA by 50%. It showed that there was not much difference between the filial generation and its male parent. The super-hybrid rice "Liangyoupeijiu" was very efficient for solar energy utilization under the condition of photooxidization, and had outgrown its parents in the aspect of anti-photooxidization.
14655376	It is estimated that there are nearly 20 million hectares of rice crop being infested by Nilaparvata lugens, with an annual loss of some half a million tones of grain. In order to study the properties and laws of Nilaparvata lugens occurrence system further, the time series data of Nilaparvata lugens occurrence from 1986 to 1998 collected in Taihu Lake District were analyzed by using the methods of autocorrelation function, power spectrum figure, phase trajectory figure, poincare section, and return map of chaos theory. The results indicated that Nilaparvata lugens occurrence system in Yangtze River valley area in China had an obvious chaotic property, even though there was some interference of random noises.
14656142	Aspergillus niger spores have wide ranging applications in the fermentation industry as well as in wastewater treatment. We present an optimized method for production of A. niger spores on natural substrates such as rice, split pea, and millet. The specific productivity (number of spores per gram of dry substrate) was 31-fold greater and volumetric productivity was 750-fold greater compared to agar slopes. The important process variables were incubation temperature, moisture content, and inoculum quantity. We find that the optimal condition for total spore count is different from the viable spore count for millet. The optimum lies in a narrow region defined by the process parameters. Of the three substrates tested split pea gave the highest specific spore productivity of 3.1 x 10(10) spores per gram of dry substrate. This is the first report of systematic study on the effect of process parameters on spore viability. The method of A. niger spore production on natural substrate appears advantageous as compared to the currently practiced method in terms of scale-up, cost, and ease of operation.
14657124	In addition to rice yellow dwarf (RYD) phytoplasma, several phytoplasmas infect gramineous plants, including rice orange leaf, bermuda grass white leaf, brachiaria grass white leaf and sugarcane white leaf phytoplasmas. To investigate whether the RYD phytoplasma is a discrete, species-level taxon, several isolates of the aforementioned phytoplasmas were analysed using PCR-amplified 16S rDNA sequences. Two RYD isolates, RYD-J(T) and RYD-Th, were almost identical (99.2 %), but were distinct (similarities of 96.3-97.9 %) from other phytoplasma isolates of the RYD 16S-group. The notion that the RYD phytoplasma constitutes a unique taxon is also supported by its unique insect vector (Nephotettix sp.), its unique host plant in nature (rice) and its limited geographical distribution (Asia). In Southern blot analysis, chromosomal and extrachromosomal DNA probes of the RYD phytoplasma reportedly did not hybridize with those of closely related phytoplasmas. These properties of the RYD phytoplasma clearly indicate that it represents a novel taxon, 'Candidatus Phytoplasma oryzae'.
14657135	Two propionate-producing strains (Wd(T) and Wf) that were isolated anaerobically from plant residue of irrigated rice-field soil in Japan were characterized phenotypically and phylogenetically. The growth rate of strain Wd(T) was very slow in basal medium, but both growth and propionate production were stimulated significantly by the addition of cyanocobalamin. Strain Wf grew well in basal medium and produced substantial amounts of fermentation products, including propionate. Other phenotypic and phylogenetic characteristics of the two isolates were almost identical. Both were facultatively anaerobic, but much better growth was observed under anaerobic conditions. Cells were Gram-positive, non-motile, non-spore-forming and pleomorphic rods with irregular V- or crescent-shaped cell arrangements. Fermentation products from glucose in the presence of excess cyanocobalamin were acetate, lactate, a small amount of succinate and CO(2), in addition to propionate. Both oxidase and catalase activities were negative. The strains possessed meso-diaminopimelic acid in their peptidoglycan and their major cellular fatty acids were C(13 : 0), anteiso-C(15 : 0) and C(15 : 0). The isolates had high genomic DNA G+C contents (68.7 and 67.4 mol%, respectively). Menaquinones MK-9(H(4)) and MK-10(H(4)) were the predominant respiratory quinones. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rDNA sequences placed both strains in the Actinobacteria, with Micropruina glycogenica as their closest relative (sequence similarity values of 95.8 and 95.7 %, respectively). Microlunatus phosphovorus and Friedmanniella antarctica were also related closely to the isolates. As their morphological, physiological and chemotaxonomic characteristics were distinctly different from those of any related species, Propionicimonas paludicola gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed to accommodate these strains. The type strain of the novel species is Wd(T) (=JCM 11933(T)=DSM 15597(T)).
14657402	Blue-light-receptor cryptochrome (CRY), which mediates cotyledon expansion, increased accumulation of anthocyanin, and inhibition of hypocotyl elongation, was first identified in Arabidopsis. Two Arabidopsis cryptochromes (AtCRY1 and AtCRY2) have been reported to be localized to the nucleus. However, there is no information on the cryptochromes in monocotyledons. In this study, we isolated two cryptochrome cDNAs, OsCRY1 and OsCRY2, from rice (Oryza sativa) plants. The deduced amino acid sequences of OsCRY1 and OsCRY2 have a photolyase-like domain in their N termini and are homologous to AtCRY1. To investigate the function of OsCRY1, we overexpressed a green fluorescence protein-OsCRY1 fusion gene in Arabidopsis and assessed the phenotypes of the resulting transgenic plants. When the seedlings were germinated in the dark, no discernible effect was observed. However, light-germinated seedlings showed pronounced inhibition of hypocotyl elongation and increased accumulation of anthocyanin. These phenotypes were induced in a blue-light-dependent manner, indicating that OsCRY1 functions as a blue-light-receptor cryptochrome. We also examined the intracellular localization of green fluorescence protein-OsCRY1 in the transgenic plants. It was localized to both the nucleus and the cytoplasm. We identified two nuclear localization domains in the primary structure of OsCRY1. We discuss the relationship between the function and intracellular localization of rice cryptochromes by using additional data obtained with OsCRY2.
14658384	We investigated the effects of drought stress on the ultrastructure of chloroplasts in rice plants. After the seedlings were grown in a glasshouse for 1 month, they were treated for drought stress using two methods. One drought treatment was imposed by reducing the water supply to the plants for 1 month. The other was imposed by withholding water for 2 weeks to examine the withering process of leaves by drought stress. The ultrastructural changes of chloroplasts in bundle sheath cells were more prominent than those in mesophyll cells under both drought stress treatments. Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (rubisco) content in bundle sheath chloroplasts reduced more dramatically than in mesophyll chloroplasts by drought stress. Although a slight swelling of thylakoids was sometimes observed in bundle sheath chloroplasts in moderate stress for 1 month, the thylakoids were less affected by drought stress than chloroplast envelope. These results suggest that chloroplasts in bundle sheath cells were more sensitive to drought stress than those in mesophyll cells and the thylakoids were less damaged by drought stress compared with chloroplast envelope.
14658505	Heritability of Chilo suppressalis (Walker) tolerance to the Cry1Ab toxin of Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner was estimated using a half-sibling design. Artificial diet with and without Cry1Ab was infested with progenies of 20 males, each mated with 2 females, and mortality was scored 5 d after infestation. The progeny of each female was reared and scored separately. Mean mortality of the 20 families on the Cry1Ab diet was 46.5%. The effects of both male parent and of female parent within male parent were significant. Heritability was estimated to be 0.52, suggesting that a high proportion of phenotypic variation was because of genetic differences. Mortality on the Cry1Ab diet was not correlated with mortality on control diet, indicating that differences among families in tolerance to Cry1Ab were not attributable to differences in general fitness. Our results indicate that "high dose" Bt rice plants may be particularly important for Cry1Ab resistance management in C. suppressalis populations.
14658512	Of approximately 18,200 ha planted to sugarcane in south Texas, only approximately 80 ha (<0.5%) are treated with insecticides because this type of control is widely regarded as ineffective against stalkboring pyralids, the key pests of sugarcane. Therefore, nonchemical control measures, such as resistant varieties and biological controls, must be evaluated to mitigate the losses caused by stalkborers. We performed laboratory and field evaluations on the use of Beauveria bassiana (Balsamo) Vuillemin (Deuteromycotina: Hyphomycetes) (strain GHA) against the Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), which causes damage in south Texas estimated at between 10 and 20 million dollars annually. We also performed bioassays against the sugarcane borer, Diatraea saccharalis (F.) (Pyralidae), the key pest in other sugarcane growing areas. In the bioassays, E. loftini was substantially more susceptible to B. bassiana than D. saccharalis, based on both 5-d LD50 values and survival times. A commercial oil-based formulation of B. bassiana was evaluated in the field using the following treatments: oil alone (control), B. bassiana + oil, and B. bassiana + Silwet L-77 carrier at an application rate of 5 x 10(13) spores per hectare. Neither numbers of E. loftini per stalk, nor stalk damage (approximately 20% bored internodes) were significantly affected by treatment. The application of B. bassiana + Silwet significantly affected the numbers of internodes showing high damage, but not those with low or medium damage. Analysis of yield data and juice quality showed no significant treatment effects. We conclude that the application of Beauveria + Silwet offers the best chances for reducing damage caused by E. loftini of those treatments tested. However, reductions in insect incidence or damage did not result in measurable increases in yield or sugar quality, probably because of insufficient coverage. Effective control of stalkboring pyralids in sugarcane using B. bassiana will likely require improvements in delivery technology.
14659080	Acid phosphatases (APases) play a role in the release of phosphate in organic complexes in soil. We investigated tissue- and isoform-specific responses of APases to phosphorus (P) deficiency in three rice genotypes; Dasan-byeo, Sobi-byeo, and Palawan. The levels of shoot APase activity per protein were similar in the three genotypes. They significantly decreased with P deprivation that was longer than seven days. Root APase activity per protein was two- to three-fold higher in Dasan than in Sobi and Palawan. In all genotypes the APase activity increased in P-deficient plants, but the increase was higher in Sobi and Palawan. After 21 days of P deprivation, secreted APase activity increased more than eight-fold in Dasan and two-fold in Sobi and Palawan. Isoform profiles of shoot and root APases were most diverse in Dasan. The activities of the major isoforms in P-deficient shoots decreased in all three genotypes. Depending on the genotypes, further increases in constitutive isoforms and new induction of one to four isoforms occurred in P-deficient roots. The results indicate that tissue and genotype differences in the response of APase to P deficiency are primarily facilitated by the different responses of the isoforms.
14659081	Plant lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) are a class of proteins whose functions are still unknown. Some are proposed to have antimicrobial activities. To understand whether LTP110, a rice LTP that we previously identified from rice leaves, plays a role in the protection function against some serious rice pathogens, we investigated the antifungal and antibacterial properties of LTP110. A cDNA sequence, encoding the mature peptide of LTP110, was cloned into the Impact-CN prokaryotic expression system. The purified protein was used for an in vitro inhibition test against rice pathogens, Pyricularia oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae. The results showed that LTP110 inhibited the germination of Pyricularia oryzae spores, and its inhibitory activity decreased in the presence of a divalent cation. This suggests that the antifungal activity is affected by ions in the media; LTP110 only slightly inhibited the growth of Xanthomonas oryzae. However, the addition of LTP110 to cultured Chinese hamster ovarian cells did not retard growth, suggesting that the toxicity of LTP110 is only restricted to some cell types. Its antimicrobial activity is potentially due to interactions between LTP and microbe-specific structures.
14659550	The constitutive expression vector pHY300-F1gfp was constructed to test the function of a promoter, F1, cloned from the rice epiphyte Bacillus brevis strain DX01. The DX01 cells harboring the plasmid pHY300-F1gfp were shown to produce bright green fluorescence. The results were confirmed by Western blot analysis and fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Expression of the F1 promoter was constitutive. To improve the activity of F1, insertion mutagenesis of F1 based on in vitro transposition reaction was performed. Seven mutants with enhanced transcription activity in Escherichia coli DH5alpha were obtained. The enhanced promoters showed similar high activities in B. brevis strain DX01.
14659883	Programmed cell death (PCD) plays important roles in the development and physiology of both animals and plants, but it is unclear whether similar mechanisms are employed. Bax Inhibitor-1 (BI-1) is an intracellular multi-membrane-spanning protein and cell death inhibitor, originally identified by a function-based screen for mammalian cDNAs capable of suppressing cell death in yeast engineered to ectopically express the pro-apoptotic protein Bax. Using this yeast assay, we screened expression libraries for cDNAs from the plant, Lycopersicon esculentum (tomato), and the invertebrate animal Drosophila melanogaster (fruit fly), identifying close homologs of BI-1 as Bax-suppressors. We studied the fly and tomato homologs of BI-1, as well as BI-1 homologs identified in Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa (rice), and Saccharomyces cerevisiae (budding yeast). All eukaryotic homologs of BI-1 blocked Bax-induced cell death when expressed in yeast. Eukaryotic BI-1 homologs also partially rescued yeast from cell death induced by oxidative stress (H(2)O(2)) and heat shock. Deletion of a C-terminal domain from BI-1 homologs abrogated their cytoprotective function in yeast, demonstrating conserved structure-function relations among these proteins. Expression of tomato BI-1 by agroinfiltration of intact plant leaves provided protection from damage induced by heat-shock and cold-shock stress. Altogether, these findings indicate that BI-1 homologs exist in multiple eukaryotic species, providing cytoprotection against diverse stimuli, thus implying that BI-1 regulates evolutionary conserved mechanisms of stress resistance that are germane to both plants and animals.
14660245	The authors explore the time trends in lifestyle factors in the Northern Sweden MONICA population, including physical activity, intake of certain foods, coffee and alcohol consumption, smoking, and the use of smokeless tobacco. Four health surveys during a 14-year time span were compared (1986, 1990, 1994, and 1999). The participation rate in all surveys was high. A questionnaire with similar or comparable questions about lifestyle factors was used across all health surveys. A large variation was demonstrated in the consumption of saturated fat in dairy products across the surveys. The use of butter on bread and of 3% fat milk clearly declined in favour of using low-fat margarine and 1-1.5% fat milk. A decline in the intake of boiled or baked potatoes together with an increase in the intake of pasta and rice was demonstrated. There were no changes in leisure-time physical activity. The proportion of the population using tobacco was unaltered. In men, smoking declined during the period but simultaneously there was an increase in the use of smokeless tobacco. The use of "boiled" or Scandinavian coffee diminished and more frequent use of alcohol was seen, especially in men. Pronounced changes were seen in food consumption with a decrease in saturated fat intake, boiled coffee, and potatoes and an increase in alcohol, rice, and pasta consumption. No clear time trends were found in physical activity or in the use of tobacco.
14660680	The role of mitochondria in providing intracellular ATP that controls the activity of plasma membrane outward-rectifying K+ channels was evaluated. The OsCHLH rice mutant, which lacks chlorophyll in the thylakoids, was isolated by T-DNA gene trapping (Jung, K.-H., Hur, J., Ryu, C.-H., Choi, Y., Chung, Y.-Y., Miyao, A., Hirochika, H., and An, G. (2003) Plant Cell Physiol. 44, 463-472). The OsCHLH mutant is unable to fix CO2 and exhibits reduced growth. Wild type and mutant plants exhibit similar rates of respiratory O2 uptake in the dark, whereas the rate of photosynthetic O2 evolution by the mutant was negligible during illumination. During dark respiration the wild type and mutant exhibited similar levels of cytoplasmic ATP. In the mutant oligomycin treatment (an inhibitor of mitochondrial F1F0-ATPase) drastically reduced ATP production. The fact that this was reversed by the addition of glucose suggested that the mutant produced ATP exclusively from mitochondria but not from chloroplasts. In whole cell patch clamp experiments, the activity of outward-rectifying K+ channels of rice mesophyll cells showed ATP-dependent currents, which were 1.5-fold greater in wild type than in mutant cells. Channels in both wild type and mutant cells were deactivated by the removal of cytosolic ATP, whereas in the presence of ATP the channels remained active. We conclude that mesophyll cells in the OsCHLH rice mutant derive ATP from mitochondrial respiration, and that this is critical for the normal function of plasma membrane outward-rectifying K+ channels.
14663638	Studies of lifestyle factors related to gastric atrophy development in Helicobacter pylori-infected individuals are limited. The present cross-sectional study aimed to examine the associations between lifestyle factors and serum pepsinogens (PGs) among anti- H. pylori antibody-seropositive Japanese in Brazil, where gastric cancer mortality was reported to be as high as in Japanese in Japan, and seropositive individuals were still frequently detected. The subjects were 291 seropositive individuals (129 males and 162 females; age, 30 to 69 years) out of 656 Japanese-Brazilian volunteers in São Paulo city. Information on lifestyle factors was obtained using a self-administered questionnaire. Atrophic gastritis was defined as a PG1 serum level less than 70 ng/ml and PG1/PG2 ratio less than 3. The prevalence of atrophic gastritis was 31.9% (95% confidence intervals, 26.6%-37.6%). The proportion of subjects with atrophic gastritis increased with age, but there were no significantly marked differences in the proportions of subjects with atrophic gastritis among the three generations studied (first generation [Issei], second generation [Nisei], and third generation [Sansei]) for any 10-year age group. The associations with smoking and alcohol drinking were not significant. Length of education was inversely associated with gastric atrophy, while infrequent rice intake was preventive; the odds ratio relative to everyday rice intake was 0.13 (95% confidence intervals, 0.39-0.46) on multivariate analysis. The present study demonstrated that frequent rice intake was a risk factor for atrophic gastritis among the H. pylori-infected Japanese-Brazilians, suggesting that diet including rice plays a role in the step from H. pylori infection to gastric atrophy.
14664501	Validamycin A, a main component of the antibiotic validamycin complex, which is widely used to control sheath blight disease of rice plants, can be determined by capillary zone electrophoresis with indirect UV detection. The influence of various separation conditions including background electrolyte and modifier concentration, pH, and voltage was investigated. By using 10 mM aminopyrine-2 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid at pH 5.2 as the carrier electrolyte, high efficiency separation of validamycin A was achieved with the number of theoretical plates up to 350000 plates/m. The linear range was across 3 orders of magnitude. The relative standard deviations for migration times and peak areas were less than 0.5 and 3.0%, respectively. The limit of detection for validamycin A was 1.0 microg/mL. The average recoveries ranged from 103.0 to 104.8%. This method has many advantages as compared with high-performance liquid chromatography and micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography in the determination of commercial formulations.
14665400	Except for imported cases, we have had no new Schistosoma japonicum infection in Japan since 1977. But there are still two habitats of the intermediate snail host: Oncomelania nosophora in the previous endemic areas of Kofu Basin and Obitsu. O. nosophora from Kofu Basin and Obitsu are susceptible to Chinese and Philippine strains of S. japonicum. The number of immigrants from current endemic areas in China or the Philippines is increasing. In order to prevent re-emerging of S. japonicum infections in Japan, we should continue monitoring on those existing snail hosts and investigate an adequate quarantine system. In Japan, elimination of schistosomiasis has been mainly accomplished by control of the snail host. As measures of snail control, cement-lining of ditches and chemical mollusciciding were most effective in Japan. But the cost of this joint program is too expensive compared with health budget in almost developing countries. In endemic areas of Japan, land reformation from paddy field to fruit farm was also effective. The intermediate snail host in the Philippines, Oncomelania quadrasi is much more aquatic than O. nosophora. For control of O. quadrasi, small drainage of the water and land reclamation from swampy field to rice-field were effective. Based on biological characteristics of Oncomelania spp., we can modify the past successful snail control program in Japan to be adapted ecologically and economically to each endemic area of developing countries.
14666132	The whitebacked planthopper (WBPH), Sogatella furcifera, and brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens Stål are important sucking insects of rice (Oryza sativa L.) crops throughout the world. Rice 'B5', which has derived its resistance genes from the wild rice O. officinalis Wall ex Watt, is a line that is highly resistant to both WBPH and BPH. Previously, two resistance genes against BPH, Qbp1, and Qbp2 in 'B5' had been mapped onto chromosome 3 and chromosome 4, respectively. In this study, we employed a mapping population composed of 187 recombinant inbred lines (RILs), produced from a cross between 'B5' and susceptible variety 'Minghui63', to locate the WBPH and BPH resistance genes. A RFLP survey of the bulked extremes from the RIL population identified two genomic regions, one on chromosome 3 and the other on chromosome 4, likely containing the resistance genes to planthoppers. QTL analysis of the RILs further confirmed that two WBPH resistance genes were mapped on the same loci as Qbp1 and Qbp2, using a linkage map with 242 molecular markers distributed on 12 rice chromosomes. Of the two WBPH resistance genes, one designated Wbph7(t) was located within a 1.1-cM region between R1925 and G1318 on chromosome 3, the other designated Wbph8(t) was within a 0.3-cM region flanked by R288 and S11182 on chromosome 4. A two-way analysis of variance showed that two loci acted independently with each other in determining WBPH resistance. The results have significant implications in studying the interactions between sucking insects and plants and in breeding programs of resistance to rice planthoppers.
14668919	Rice is the first cereal genome of known draft sequence, and the finished sequence for it is now nearly complete. In this paper, we describe a preliminary analysis of known rice genes aimed to detect resistance gene analogues of known structural classes. Putative resistance genes were identified in a dual approach--by using BLASTP searches to identify candidate sequences and by using Hidden Markov Models to predict domain presence in the candidates. The set of proteins examined was obtained from the publicly available data of TIGR (The Institute for Genomic Research). 1744 distinct RGAs were identified, 597 of which belonged to the NBS-LRR class. Supplementary data (sequences and annotations) is available on the web site http:/gkoczyk.bioinfo.pl/CMBL.
14669504	A mapping population of 66 japonica chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) in indica genetic background, derived from a cross between a japonica variety Asominori and an indica variety IR24 by the single-seed descent, backcrossing and marker-assisted selection, was used to detect quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for leaf bronzing index (LBI), stem dry weight (SDW), plant height (PH), root length (RL) and root dry weight (RDW) under Fe2+ stress condition in rice. Two parents and 66 japonica CSSLs were phenotyped for the traits by growing them in Fe2+ toxicity nutrient solution. A total of fourteen QTLs were detected on chromosome 3, 6, 7, 9, 11 and 12, respectively, with LOD of QTLs ranging from 2.72 to 6.63. Three QTLs controlling LBI were located at the region of C515-XNpb279, R2638-C1263 and G1465-C950 on chromosome 3, 9 and 11, their contributions to whole variation were 16.45%, 11.16% and 28.02%, respectively. Comparing with the other mapping results, the QTL for LBI located at the region of C515-XNpb279 on chromosome 3 was identical with the QTL for chlorophyll content on a rice function map. The results indicated that ferrous iron toxicity of rice is characterized by bronzing spots on the lower leaves, which spread over the whole leaves, causing the lower leaves to turn dark gray and to product chlorophyll catabolites or derivatives which reduce cytotoxicity of some heavy metals, such as ferrous iron. Furthermore, the QTL for LBI, SDW and RDW located at the region of G1465-C950 on chromosome 11 is a major QTL. Whether the QTL for SDW, PH, RL and RDW at the region of XNpb386-XNpb342 on chromosome 6 is associated with resistance to ferrous iron toxicity need further studies. Our goal is to identify breeding materials for resistance to Fe2+ toxicity through marker-assisted selection based on the detected markers.
14669505	Plant height (PH), heading date (HD) and productive panicle number (PN) are important agronomic trait in rice. Appropriate plant height, heading date and panicle number are prerequisites for the desired high and stable yield level in rice breeding programs. A recombinant inbred line (RIL) population consisting of 304 individuals was derived from a cross between indica varieties Zhong156 and Gumei2, from which a linkage map consisting of 168 RFLP, SSLP, RAPD and RGA markers that distribute on all the 12 rice chromosomes was constructed, and covers 1447.9 cM of the rice genome. The parents and 304 F9 lines were grown in the paddy field in China National Rice Research Institute (CNRRI), Hangzhou, China in 2001. The experiments were carried out in two seasons followed a randomized complete block design. QTLMapper 1.01 was applied to detect QTLs and QTL x environment (QE) interaction for HD (heading data), PH (plant height) and PN (panicle number), and conditional mapping for PH and PN was performed as well. A total of 15 QTLs with significant additive effects were detected, among which 4 QTLs had significant QE interaction. Ten QTLs with additive x additive epistatic effects for PH, HD and PN were detected, among which none showed significant epistatisis x environment interaction. These QTLs explained 12.12%, 1.38% and 5.00% of the total phenotypic variance for PH, HD and PN, respectively, and contributions were generally lower due to the strong epistatic effects. In conditional QTL analysis, the numbers of QTLs showing significant additive and epistatic effects were 7 and 6 for PH, and 3 and 3 for PN, respectively. Among the QTLs having significant additive effects for PH, qPH7-2 showed both additive effects and QE interaction, qPH7-1 and qPH10 showed QE interaction only, and the remaining 4 QTLs showed additive effects only. Each of the 3 QTLs having significant additive effects for PN did not display significant QE interaction. No epistatic QE interactions was detected. In addition, conditional QTL analysis indicated that the expression of QTLs for PH and PN may vary depending on the QTLs for HD.
14669804	The sorption characteristics of Cr(VI) and Cu(II) by ethylenediamine modified rice hull from single and binary metal ion solutions were evaluated under various experimental conditions. Optimal Cr(VI) and Cu(II) removal from single metal ion solutions occurred at pH 2.0 and 5.5, respectively. Simultaneous removal of Cr(VI) and Cu(II) occurred at pH greater than 3.0. The sorption kinetics of Cr(VI) and Cu(II) from single and binary metal ion solutions were studied with reference to metal concentration, agitation rate and particle size. Sorption of Cr(VI) was more rapid than Cu(II). The kinetics of metal ion sorption fitted a pseudo-second order expression. The variation in the initial uptake rates was very small at an agitation rate beyond 150 rpm and sorption was generally independent of particle size. Equilibrium sorption data could be fitted into the Langmuir isotherm equation. Maximum sorption capacities of ethylenediamine modified rice hull for Cr(VI) at pH 2 and Cu(II) at pH 4 in single metal solutions were 0.45 and 0.06 mmol g(-1), respectively. This corresponds to an enhancement factor of 2.6 and 3 fold for Cr(VI) and Cu(II), respectively, compared to natural rice hull. A synergistic effect was observed for sorption of these ions in binary metal solutions.
14671025	Enormous genomic resources have been developed for plants in the monocot order Poales; however, it is not clear how representative the Poales are for the monocots as a whole. The Asparagales are a monophyletic order sister to the lineage carrying the Poales and possess economically important plants such as asparagus, garlic, and onion. To assess the genomic differences between the Asparagales and Poales, we generated 11,008 unique ESTs from a normalized cDNA library of onion. Sequence analyses of these ESTs revealed microsatellite markers, single nucleotide polymorphisms, and homologs of transposable elements. Mean nucleotide similarity between rice and the Asparagales was 78% across coding regions. Expressed sequence and genomic comparisons revealed strong differences between the Asparagales and Poales for codon usage and mean GC content, GC distribution, and relative GC content at each codon position, indicating that genomic characteristics are not uniform across the monocots. The Asparagales were more similar to eudicots than to the Poales for these genomic characteristics.
14671123	We have obtained the complete DNA sequence of pseudorabies virus (PRV), an alphaherpesvirus also known as Aujeszky's disease virus or suid herpesvirus 1, using sequence fragments derived from six different strains (Kaplan, Becker, Rice, Indiana-Funkhauser, NIA-3, and TNL). The assembled PRV genome sequence comprises 143,461 nucleotides. As expected, it matches the predicted gene arrangement, genome size, and restriction enzyme digest patterns. More than 70 open reading frames were identified with homologs in related alphaherpesviruses; none were unique to PRV. RNA polymerase II transcriptional control elements in the PRV genome, including core promoters, splice sites, and polyadenylation sites, were identified with computer prediction programs. The correlation between predicted and experimentally determined transcription start and stop sites was excellent. The transcriptional control architecture is characterized by three key features: core transcription elements shared between genes, yielding divergent transcripts and a large number of coterminal transcripts; bifunctional transcriptional elements, yielding head-to-tail transcripts; and short repetitive sequences that could function as insulators against improperly terminated transcripts. Many of these features are conserved in the alphaherpesvirus subfamily and have important implications for gene array analyses.
14672085	The use of the activated carbon produced from rice hulls to control NOx emissions for future deep space missions has been demonstrated. The optimal carbonization temperature range was found to be between 600 and 750 degrees C. A burnoff of 61.8% was found at 700 degrees C in pyrolysis and 750 degrees C in activation. The BET surface area of the activated carbon from rice hulls was determined to be 172 m2/g when prepared at 700 degrees C. The presence of oxygen in flue gas is essential for effective adsorption of NO by activated carbon. On the contrary, water vapor inhibits the adsorption efficiency of NO. Consequently, water vapor in flue gas should be removed by drying agents before adsorption to ensure high NO adsorption efficiency. All of the NO in the flue gas was removed for more than 1.5 h when 10% oxygen was present and the ratio of the carbon weight to the flue gas flow rate (W/F) was 15.4 g min/L. Reduction of the adsorbed NO to form N2 could be effectively accomplished under anaerobic conditions at 550 degrees C. The adsorption capacity of NO on the activated carbon was found to be 5.02 mg of NO/g of carbon. The loss of carbon mass was determined to be about 0.16% of the activated carbon per cycle of regeneration if the regeneration occurred when the NO in the flue gas after the carbon bed reached 4.8 ppm, the space maximum allowable concentration. The reduction of the adsorbed NO also regenerated the activated carbon, and the regenerated activated carbon exhibited an improved NO adsorption efficiency.
14672303	The objective of this paper is to review programs to improve production of animal source foods in Vietnam, emphasizing the VAC ecosystem and trends in undernutrition during past decades. The food consumption surveys of the Vietnamese population in 1985 showed that food intake was inadequate, especially animal protein. Most protein came from rice; the consumption of meats, beans and fish was negligible. During the last 10 y, much attention was paid to improving the health and nutritional status of the Vietnamese people. Many programs were implemented in Vietnam to improve the food intake and nutritional status of the people, and especially the intake of animal source foods. The VAC system is a traditional type of farming for Vietnamese people. The aim of VAC is to provide diversified agricultural products to meet the complex nutritional demands of man. Based on the scientific fundamentals of VAC, many different models of VAC have been developed at a national level. The intervention programs to improve production and consumption of animal source foods, and the VAC ecosystem in Vietnam during the last decade have been successful. The population's dietary intakes have clearly improved in terms of both quality and quantity. The consumption of staple foods in 2000, including meats, fish, fats and oils, and ripe fruits was much higher compared to 1987. The prevalence of undernutrition in children <5 y old, and of chronic energy deficiency (CED) in women of reproductive age, has been remarkably reduced.
14672306	Semi-scavenging poultry production is a potential avenue for increasing poultry production and income, and improving the livelihoods of members of poor rural households. Since 1998, the Participatory Livestock Development Project (PLDP) has used this strategy to increase poultry production and household income in the northwest and north-central regions of Bangladesh. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of the PLDP on the food and nutrient intakes of females in the PLDP-adopting households. A cross-sectional comparative study was conducted using data for 35 women of reproductive age and 35 girls (5-12 y old) from both the PLDP-adopting and nonadopting households. Data was collected in 1999 on food consumption as well as poultry production, household socioeconomic status and food preferences, using quantitative and qualitative questionnaires. High-yielding parent poultry stock and egg production were significantly higher in the PLDP households (P < 0.001). Intakes of chicken and eggs were similar in both groups and negligible compared to other foods, especially rice, vegetables and fish. Fish intake was higher in the PLDP-adopting women (P < 0.08) and girls (P < 0.06) compared to their nonadopting counterparts. Women had a higher preference for small fish compared to other animal foods. The results of this study suggested that if a project such as the PLDP, which increases animal food production and income in rural Bangladesh, also aims to increase intakes of animal source foods in females, then the accessibility of small fish must be ensured.
14672408	The pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) is the important metabolism pathway in plant. In the present study, a cDNA encoding one of the key enzymes of PPP, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase(6PGDH), was isolated from rice and designated as Os6PGDH. The Os6PGDH encoding protein is a cytosolic isoenzyme according to the absence of plastid transit peptide at the N-terminus. The full-length cDNA of 1751 bp encodes 480 amino acids and its putative protein sequence is 94%, 84% and 83% identical to maize, spinach and alfalfa 6PGDHs respectively. Comparison of the cloned mRNA sequence with that of the genomic sequence from the Rice Genome Project showed a simple genomic organization devoid of introns in the translated region of the gene. RT-PCR experiments revealed that Os6PGDH expression was high in inflorescence, low in root and embryos but almost absent in leaves. Furthermore, Os6PGDH was up-regulated in the shoots under salt stress. It is suggested that 6PGDH in plant may play an important role in cell division and salt response.
14672869	The findings of a negative association between past maize (Zea mays) production and current Parkinson's disease mortality by each prefecture in Japan tends to support the hypothesis that the nutritional condition that causes niacin deficiency might protect people from Parkinson's disease. Specifically, the negative association between both the area planted for dried corn in 1960, 1970 or 1977 and the area planted for sweet corn in 1960 and age-adjusted death rates for Parkinson's disease is ecological evidence supporting the hypothesis. Extending the analysis to other cultivated crops, even stronger negative associations of age-adjusted death rates for Parkinson's disease and cultivation of rice and soybeans were found, but associations were not significant for a large variety of vegetables. The findings for soybean and rice are attributed to the correspondence (co-linearity) of cultivation of these other two seed-crops with maize. Hence, further testing of the theory of niacin deprivation and prevention of Parkinson's disease finds some circumstantial support in the cultivation patterns of a grain of poor niacin and tryptophan availability.
14673510	As the sole ubiquitous signal GTP-binding protein family in higher plants, Rac genes act as pivotal molecular switches and participate in many regulations of life activities. In order to study the biochemical characteristics of rice Rac protein osRACB, the complete coding sequence of osRACB was cloned into expression vector pET28a and expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3). After induced by 1 mmol/L IPTG at 37 degrees C for 4 h, the fusion protein His-osRACB was produced in a large amount. The fusion protein was purified by Ni(2+)-NTA column and digested by thrombin. After a series of processes including separation and recovery by electrophoresis, renaturation by glutathione and concentration by ultrafiltration, pure osRACB protein in an active form was obtained. The GTP-binding and hydrolyzing assay showed that osRACB has strong GTP special binding and hydrolysis activity regulated by Mg(2+). By comparing it with another rice Rac protein osRACD, it can be concluded that osRACB has stronger GTP-binding activity and weaker hydrolysis activity than osRACD.
14673603	The antioxidant capacity of rice bran (RB) (due mainly to its gamma-oryzanol content) is very well known. We have recently developed a water-soluble oryzanol enzymatic extract (WSOEE), which shows a greatly increased functionality. The aim of our study is the evaluation of the antioxidant potential of WSOEE in an ex vivo model to compare its protective capacity against oxidative damage by active-oxygen substances and free radicals (mainly the peroxyl radical) to biomolecules (such as proteins and lipids) with that of antioxidants, such as Trolox (a water-soluble derivative of vitamin E), melatonin, and folic acid. WSOEE gamma-oryzanol content and composition were determined by HPLC. Free-radical-scavenging capacity was evaluated using the assay based on phycoerythrin fluorescence. Antioxidant capacity against hydroperoxide-caused oxidative injury to proteins and lipids was evaluated using an ex vivo model: a rat brain homogenate. The effectiveness was determined by assessing protein damage (measured as carbonyl group content by Western blot immunoassay) and lipid peroxidation (measured as malondialdehyde content). The WSOEE gamma-oryzanol composition profile was similar to that of RB (cycloartenyl, 24-methylene cycloartenyl, campesteryl, and sitosteryl ferulates), but with two major differences: WSOEE gamma-oryzanol concentration was five times higher than that of RB, and WSOEE was water soluble. WSOEE total antioxidant capacity to trap the peroxyl radical was high, and similar to that of Trolox. The capacity to inhibit lipid peroxidation induced by cumene hydroperoxide in rat brain homogenate yielded a protection similar to that of Trolox. WSOEE also showed the capacity to protect protein from oxidation phenomena in rat brain homogenate, with a behavior similar to that of melatonin. This is of particular importance, since the loss of protein function caused by oxidative modification may affect the activity of enzymes, receptors, and membrane transporters, among other functions. WSOEE is a new potential antioxidant agent from rice bran that shows a high free-radical-scavenging capacity and prevents protein oxidation and lipid peroxidation when cells ex vivo are exposed to free radicals.
14673788	As an initial step to the comprehensive proteomic analysis of Panax ginseng C. A. Meyer, protein mixtures extracted from the cultured hairy root of Panax ginseng were separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-DE). The protein spots were analyzed and identified by peptide finger printing and internal amino acid sequencing by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) and electrospray ionization quadrupole-time of flight mass spectrometry (ESI Q-TOF MS), respectively. More than 300 protein spots were detected on silver stained two-dimensional (2-D) gels using pH 3-10, 4-7, and 4.5-5.5 gradients. Major protein spots (159) were analyzed by peptide fingerprinting or de novo sequencing and the functions of 91 of these proteins were identified. Protein identification was achieved using the expressed sequence tag (EST) database from Panax ginseng and the protein database of plants like Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. However, peptide mass fingerprinting by MALDI-TOF MS alone was insufficient for protein identification because of the lack of a genome database for Panax ginseng. Only 17 of the 159 protein spots were verified by peptide mass fingerprinting using MALDI-TOF MS whereas 87 out of 102 protein spots, which included 13 of the 17 proteins identified by MALDI-TOF MS, were identified by internal amino acid sequencing using tandem mass spectrometry analysis by ESI Q-TOF MS. When the internal amino acid sequences were used as identification markers, the identification rate exceeded 85.3%, suggesting that a combination of internal sequencing and EST data analysis was an efficient identification method for proteome analysis of plants having incomplete genome data like ginseng. The 2-D patterns of the main root and leaves of Panax ginseng differed from that of the cultured hairy root, suggesting that some proteins are exclusively expressed by different tissues for specific cellular functions. Proteome analysis will undoubtedly be helpful for understanding the physiology of Panax ginseng.
14674022	Three genes encoding for fungal cell wall degrading enzymes (CWDEs), ech42, nag70 and gluc78 from the biocontrol fungus Trichoderma atroviride were inserted into the binary vector pCAMBIA1305.2 singly and in all possible combinations and transformed to rice plants. More than 1800 independently regenerated plantlets in seven different populations (for each of the three genes and each of the four gene combinations) were obtained. The ech42 gene encoding for an endochitinase increased resistance to sheath blight caused by Rhizoctonia solani, while the exochitinase-encoding gene, nag70, had lesser effect. The expression level of endochitinase but exochitinase was correlated with disease resistance. Nevertheless, exochitinase enhanced the effect of endochitinase on disease resistance when the two genes co-expressed in transgenics. Resistance to Magnaporthe grisea was found in all kinds of regenerated plants including that with single gluc78. A few lines expressing either ech42 or nag70 gene were immune to the disease. Transgenic plants are being tested to further evaluate disease resistance at field level. This is the first report of multiple of expression of genes encoding CWDEs from Trichoderma atroviride that result in resistance to blast and sheath blight in rice.
14674024	A gravity-insensitive mutant was isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Zhonghua 11) transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The mutant's shoot growth (prostrate growth) was insensitive to gravity; whereas root growth displayed a normal positive gravitropism. Histological observation of root caps and leaf sheaths indicated that there was no significant difference in the number and size of amyloplasts in cells of the mutant and cells of the wild type.
14674519	Methane (CH4) effluxes by paddy-culture rice (Oryza sativa L.) contribute about 16% of the total anthropogenic emissions. Since radiative forcing of CH4 at current atmospheric concentrations is 21 times greater on a per mole basis than that of carbon dioxide (CO2), it is imperative that the impact of global change on rice CH4 emissions be evaluated. Rice (cv. IR72) was planted in sunlit, closed-circulation, controlled-environment chambers in which CH4 efflux densities were measured daily. The CO2 concentration was maintained at either 330 or 660 micromol mol(-1). Air temperatures were controlled to daily maxima and minima of 32/23, 35/26, and 38/29 degrees C at each CO2 treatment. Emissions of CH4 each day were determined during a 4-h period after venting and resealing the chambers at 0800 h. Diurnal CH4 effluxes on 77, 98, and 119 d after planting (DAP) were obtained similarly at 4-h intervals. Emissions over four-plant hills and over flooded bare soil were measured at 53, 63, and 100 DAP. Emissions were negligible before 40 DAP. Thereafter, emissions were observed first in high-CO2, high-temperature treatments and reached a sustained maximum efflux density of about 7 mg m(-2) h(-1) (0.17 g m(-2) d(-1)) near the end of the growing season. Total seasonal CH4 emission was fourfold greater for high-CO2, high-temperature treatments than for the low-CO2, low-temperature treatment, probably due to more root sloughing or exudates, since about sixfold more acetate was found in the soil at 71 DAP. Both rising CO2 and increasing temperatures could lead to a positive feedback on global warming by increasing the emissions of CH4 from rice.
14674541	There is a current need to simulate leaching and runoff of pesticide from rice (Oryza sativa L.) paddies for assessing environmental impacts on a valuable agricultural system. The objective of this study was to develop a model for determining predicted environmental concentration (PEC) in soil, runoff, and ground water through the linkage of two models, rice water quality model (RICEWQ) and vadose zone transport model (VADOFT), to simulate pesticide fate and transport within a rice paddy and underlying soil profile. Model performance was evaluated with a field data set obtained from a 2-yr field experiment in 1997 and 1998 in northern Italy. The predictions of amount of pesticide running off from the paddy field and accumulating in the paddy sediment were in agreement with measured values. Leaching into the vadose zone accounted for approximately 19% of the applied dose, but only a small amount of chemical (<0.1%) was predicted to reach ground water at a 5-m depth due to sorption and transformation in the soil. The permeability of the soil and the water management practices in the paddy field were shown to have a strong influence on pesticide fate. These factors need to be well characterized in the field if model predictions are to be successful. The combined model developed in this work is an effective tool for exposure assessments for soil, surface water, and ground water, in the particular conditions of rice cultivation.
14674546	Fluoride (F-) pollutants can harm plants and the animals feeding on them. However, it is largely unknown how complexing and chelating agents affect F bioavailability. Two studies were conducted that measured F- bioavailability and uptake by rice (Oryza sativa L.). In the first study, rice was grown in solution culture (pH 5.0) with 0, 2, or 4 mM F- as KF to compare the interaction of F- with humic acid (HA) and with a conventional chelating agent, N-hydroxyethylenthylenediaminetriacetic acid (HEDTA). In the second study, F was supplied at 0, 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 mM KF with an additional 2 mM F- treatment containing solution Ca at 2x (2 mM Ca) the level used in the first study, to test the effect added Ca had on F- availability and uptake. Total biomass was greatest with HEDTA and F- < 1 mM. Leaf and stem F concentrations increased exponentially as solution F- increased linearly, with nearly no F partitioning into the seed. Results suggest that F was taken up as HF0 while F- uptake was likely restricted. Additionally, F- competed with HA for Ca, thus preventing the formation of Ca-HA flocculents. The addition of soluble Ca resulted in the precipitation of CaF2 solids on the root surface, as determined by tissue analysis and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy.
14675435	Seeds of the lethal embryo 1 (lem1) mutant in maize (Zea mays) display a non-concordant lethal phenotype: whereas the embryo aborts very early, before the transition stage, the endosperm develops almost normally. The mutant was identified in a collection of maize lines that carried the transposon Activation (Ac) at different locations in the genome. Co-segregation and reversion analysis showed that lem1 was tagged by Ac. The lem1 gene encodes a protein that is highly similar to the rice plastid 30S ribosomal protein S9 (PRPS9). lem1 maps to chromosome 1L and appears to be the only copy of prps9 in the maize genome. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion constructs containing only the putative transit peptide (TP) of LEM1 localize exclusively to the plastids, confirming that the LEM1 protein is a PRP. In contrast, GFP fusion constructs containing the entire LEM1 protein co-localize to the plastids and to the nucleus, suggesting a possible dual function for this protein. Two alternative, although not mutually exclusive, explanations are considered for the lem phenotype of the lem1 mutant: (i) functional plastids are required for normal embryo development; and (ii) the PRPS9 has an extra-ribosomal function required for embryogenesis.
14675437	The expression of the gene Osmyb4, detected at low level in rice (Oryza sativa) coleoptiles grown for 3 days at 29 degrees C, is strongly induced by treatments at 4 degrees C. At sublethal temperatures of 10 and 15 degrees C, its expression in rice seedlings is already evident, but this effect cannot be vicariated by other stresses or ABA treatment. We demonstrate by transient expression that Myb4 transactivates the PAL2, ScD9 SAD and COR15a cold-inducible promoters. The Osmyb4 function in vivo is demonstrated overexpressing its cDNA in Arabidopsis thaliana plants (ecotype Wassilewskija) under the control of the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter. Myb4 overexpressing plants show a significant increased cold and freezing tolerance, measured as membrane or Photosystem II (PSII) stability and as whole plant tolerance. Finally, in Osmyb4 transgenic plants, the expression of genes participating in different cold-induced pathways is affected, suggesting that Myb4 represents a master switch in cold tolerance.
14676315	The type III restriction endonuclease EcoP15I was used in isolating fragments of 26 bp from defined positions of cDNAs. We call this substantially improved variant to the conventional serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) procedure "SuperSAGE." By applying SuperSAGE to Magnaporthe grisea (blast)-infected rice leaves, gene expression profiles of both the rice host and blast fungus were simultaneously monitored by making use of the fully sequenced genomes of both organisms, revealing that the hydrophobin gene is the most actively transcribed M. grisea gene in blast-infected rice leaves. Moreover, SuperSAGE was applied to study gene expression changes before the so-called hypersensitive response in INF1 elicitor-treated Nicotiana benthamiana, a "nonmodel" organism for which no DNA database is available. Again, SuperSAGE allowed rapid identification of genes up- or down-regulated by the elicitor. Surprisingly, many of the down-regulated genes coded for proteins involved in photosynthesis. SuperSAGE will be especially useful for transcriptome profiling of two or more interacting organisms like hosts and pathogens, and of organisms, for which no DNA database is available.
14676424	Seagrasses are composed of four families belonging to angiosperms and they are thought to become adaptive to aquatic life independently. Zosteraceae is one such family and because of the relatively high species diversity around Japan and Korea coast areas, the family might have arisen therefrom. To elucidate the origin and evolution of Zosteraceae which consists of three genera, Phyllospadix, Zostera, and Heterozostera, 2.8 kb nucleotide sequences of rbcL and matK genes in the chloroplast genome were examined for various species, including cosmopolitan Z. marina and endemic Z. caulescens. The phylogenetic analysis reveals the following three features. First, based on the synonymous nucleotide substitution rate of the rice chloroplast genome, we estimated the divergence times between Zosteraceae and its closest relative, Potamogetonaceae, and between different genera, Zostera and Phyllospadix, as approximately 100 million years (myr) and 36 myr, respectively, suggesting that Zosteraceae emerged somewhere in the period from 36 myr ago to 100 myr ago. Second, two subgenera of Zostera, Zostera and Zosterella, exhibit their reciprocal monophyly and appear to have differentiated from each other approximately 33 myr ago. However, the third genus Heterozostera branched off only 5 myr ago from the stem lineage leading to Zosterella and this seems too recent in comparison with the ancient divergence of the two subgenera. Third, we estimated the most recent common ancestor of subgenus Zostera as 6 myr. In Z. marina four haplotypes were found in the sample and have diversified in the past 1.5 myr. One haplotype is shared by both sides of the Japan Archipelago and its closely related haplotypes occur also in eastern Pacific Ocean. Based on these phylogeographic analyses, we propose a provisional age related classification of Zosteraceae to argue the origin and evolution.
14676967	A number of novel brassinosteroid analogues were synthesized and subjected to the rice leaf lamina inclination bioassay. Modified B-ring analogues included lactam, thiolactone, cyclic ether, ketone, hydroxyl, and exocyclic methylene derivatives of brassinolide. Those derivatives containing polar functional groups retained considerable bioactivity, whereas the exocyclic methylene compounds were devoid of activity. Analogues containing normal alkyl and cycloalkyl substituents at C-24 (in place of the isopropyl group of brassinolide) showed an inverse relationship between activity and chain length or ring size, respectively. The corresponding cyclopropyl and cyclobutyl derivatives were significantly more active than brassinolide and appear to be the most potent brassinosteroids reported to date. When synergized with the auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), their bioactivity can be further enhanced by 1-2 orders of magnitude. The cyclopropyl derivative, when coapplied with the auxin naphthaleneacetic acid, gave a significant increase in yield of wheat in a field trial. Certain 25- and 26-hydroxy derivatives are known metabolites of brassinosteroids. All of the C-25 stereoisomers of 25-hydroxy, 26-hydroxy, and 25,26-dihydroxy derivatives of brassinolide were prepared and shown to be much less active than brassinolide. This indicates that they are likely metabolic deactivation products of the parent phytohormone. A series of methyl ethers of brassinolide was synthesized to block deactivation by glucosylation of the free hydroxyl groups. The most significant finding was that the compound where three of the four hydroxyl groups (at C-3, C-22, and C-23) had been converted to methyl ethers retained substantial bioactivity. This type of modification could, in theory, allow brassinolide or 24-epibrassinolide to resist deactivation and thus offer greater persistence in field applications. A series of nonsteroidal mimetics of brassinolide was designed and synthesized. Two of the mimetics showed significant bioactivity and one had bioactivity comparable to brassinolide, but only when formulated and coapplied with IAA. They thus represent the first nonsteroidal analogues possessing brassinosteroid activity.
14676972	Plant steroid hormones, brassinosteroids (BRs), were originally isolated from extracts of pollen because of their growth-promoting properties and their potential use for enhancing crop production. Mutants in the biosynthesis, metabolism, and signaling of brassinolide (BL), the most bioactive BR, are important resources in helping to establish BRs' essential role in plant growth and development. The dark green and distinctive dwarf phenotype of BR-related mutants identified in pea, tomato, and rice highlights the importance of BRs in crops. These mutants are helping to elucidate both the conserved and the unique features of BR biosynthesis and signaling. Such insights are providing the key knowledge and understanding that will enable the development of strategies towards the production of crops with enhanced qualities.
14677714	Reverse transcription followed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT Q-PCR) is useful for the systematic measurement of plant physiological changes in gene expression. The validity of using 18S rRNA and three housekeeping genes, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, actin, and tubulin, was tested as a reference of RT Q-PCR. Under various growth stages of etiolated seedlings, different cultivars, and various times after UV-irradiation treatment, expression level of 18S rRNA correlated with total RNA suggesting the uniformity of RT Q-PCR efficiencies among samples. Relative expressions of housekeeping genes varied among samples and independently of experimental conditions, up to two-fold, signifying generally constant fraction of mRNA in total RNA. Results indicate 18S rRNA was the most reliable reference gene for RT Q-PCR of total RNA.
14677906	A study was undertaken on environmental mycoflora of rice mills situated in Bawla town, Ahmedabad district. The airborne fungal communities were isolated and identified quantitatively by using Andersen-6-stage viable sampler, midget impinger and high volume samplers (Cone and Hexhlet for total and respirable dusts respectively). Of all the isolates, genus Aspergillus was predominant and among the Aspergillus species, A. flavus was the common isolate, irrespective of the method applied for sample collection. Number of isolates recovered from the working place was significantly greater (p < 0.01) compared to control. Total percentage of aflatoxin positive strains of A. flavus was 8 %. These aflatoxin producing strains were identified on various media, such as Czapek agar (Cz) with 0.05 % anisaldehyde, APA and CAM. Surface morphology of aflatoxin positive strains was studied by SEM. Highly significant total and respirable dust concentrations were found in the work place (p < 0.01) whereas in the store, only the total dust concentration was significantly higher (p < 0.05) than the control site. The study indicates that the rice mill workers are occupationally exposed to airborne aflatoxin producing strains of A. flavus. Thus, they require protective mask for their safety.
14678782	The 26S proteasome consisting of a 20S proteasome and a pair of 19S regulatory particles (RP) plays important roles in degradation of the ubiquitinated protein in eukaryotic cells. The RP consists of six different ATPase subunits and, at least, 11 non-ATPase subunits. In rice, we previously identified duplicated genes encoding four ATPase subunits, OsRpt1, OsRpt2, OsRpt4, and OsRpt5. In this study, the genomic sequences of all rice ATPase subunits were identified from the rice genome database and the genomic structure of ATPase subunit genes was determined. The rice RP was purified, and the ATPase subunit isoforms encoded by three pairs of duplicated genes, OsRpt2a/OsRpt2b, OsRpt4a/OsRpt4b, and OsRpt5a/OsRpt5b, were identified in RP by using electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The relative amounts and the expression patterns of these ATPase subunit isoforms in the bran were found to be different from those of the callus, suggesting the presence of multiform 19S regulatory particles engaged in the tissue-specific protein metabolism.
14679362	To evaluate the validity and reliability of the food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) used in the Shanghai Women's Health Study (SWHS), 200 SWHS participants were recruited for a dietary calibration study. Study participants completed an FFQ at baseline and 24-h dietary recalls (24-HDR) twice per month consecutively for 12 months. At the end of the study, a second FFQ was administered. Of the 200 study participants, 196 completed 24 or more days of 24-h dietary recalls, 191 completed two FFQs from whom the results of this report were based. The FFQ included the foods that accounted for 86% of the foods recorded in the 24-HDR surveys. Validity of the FFQ was evaluated by comparing intake levels of major nutrients and foods obtained from the second FFQ with those derived from the multiple 24-HDR. The median intake for major nutrients, rice, poultry and meat derived from the second FFQ and the 24-HDR was similar, with the differences ranging from 1.3 to 12.1%. The FFQ tended to overestimate the intake level of total vegetables and total fruits, and the differences were explained mainly by over-reporting seasonal vegetables and fruits consumption in the FFQ. Nutrient and food intake assessed by the FFQ and the multiple 24-HDR correlated very well, with the correlation coefficients being 0.59-0.66 for macronutrients, 0.41-0.59 for micronutrients, and 0.41-0.66 for major food groups. The reliability of the FFQ was assessed by comparing the correlation and median intake of nutrients and food groups obtained from the two FFQs that were administered approximately 2 y apart. The median intake levels for selected nutrients and food groups derived from the two FFQs were similar with differences below 10%. At the individual level, the intake levels of these dietary variables obtained from two FFQs also correlated well. When nutrient and food group intakes were categorized into quartiles, FFQ and 24-HDR produced exact agreement rates between 33 and 50%. Misclassification to adjacent quartile was common, ranging from 34-48%, while misclassification to an extreme quartile was rare (1-6%). These data indicate that the SWHS FFQ can reliably and accurately measure usual intake of major nutrients and food groups among women in Shanghai.
14681352	In the past year we at DDBJ (http://www.ddbj.nig. ac.jp) have made a steady increase in the number of data submissions with a 50.6% increment in the number of bases or 46.5% increment in the number of entries. Among them the genome data of man, ascidian and rice hold the top three. Our activity has extended to providing a tool that enables sequence retrieval using regular expressions, and to launching our SOAP server and web services to facilitate the acquisition of proper data and tools from a huge number of biological data resources on websites worldwide. We have also opened our public gene expression database, CIBEX.
14681354	The Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences (MIPS-GSF), Neuherberg, Germany, provides protein sequence-related information based on whole-genome analysis. The main focus of the work is directed toward the systematic organization of sequence-related attributes as gathered by a variety of algorithms, primary information from experimental data together with information compiled from the scientific literature. MIPS maintains automatically generated and manually annotated genome-specific databases, develops systematic classification schemes for the functional annotation of protein sequences and provides tools for the comprehensive analysis of protein sequences. This report updates the information on the yeast genome (CYGD), the Neurospora crassa genome (MNCDB), the database of complete cDNAs (German Human Genome Project, NGFN), the database of mammalian protein-protein interactions (MPPI), the database of FASTA homologies (SIMAP), and the interface for the fast retrieval of protein-associated information (QUIPOS). The Arabidopsis thaliana database, the rice database, the plant EST databases (MATDB, MOsDB, SPUTNIK), as well as the databases for the comprehensive set of genomes (PEDANT genomes) are described elsewhere in the 2003 and 2004 NAR database issues, respectively. All databases described, and the detailed descriptions of our projects can be accessed through the MIPS web server (http://mips.gsf.de).
14681435	TropGENE-DB, is a crop information system created to store genetic, molecular and phenotypic data of the numerous yet poorly documented tropical crop species. The most common data stored in TropGENE-DB are information on genetic resources (agro-morphological data, parentages, allelic diversity), molecular markers, genetic maps, results of quantitative trait loci analyses, data from physical mapping, sequences, genes, as well as the corresponding references. TropGENE-DB is organized on a crop basis with currently three running modules (sugarcane, cocoa and banana), with plans to create additional modules for rice, cotton, oil palm, coconut, rubber tree, pineapple, taro, yam and sorghum. The TropGENE-DB information system is accessible for consultation via the internet at http://tropgenedb.cirad.fr. Specific web consultation interfaces have been designed to allow quick consultations as well as complex queries.
14681438	Rice is a major food staple for the world's population and serves as a model species in cereal genome research. The Beijing Genomics Institute (BGI) has long been devoting itself to sequencing, information analysis and biological research of the rice and other crop genomes. In order to facilitate the application of the rice genomic information and to provide a foundation for functional and evolutionary studies of other important cereal crops, we implemented our Rice Information System (BGI-RIS), the most up-to-date integrated information resource as well as a workbench for comparative genomic analysis. In addition to comprehensive data from Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica sequenced by BGI, BGI-RIS also hosts carefully curated genome information from Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica and EST sequences available from other cereal crops. In this resource, sequence contigs of indica (93-11) have been further assembled into Mbp-sized scaffolds and anchored onto the rice chromosomes referenced to physical/genetic markers, cDNAs and BAC-end sequences. We have annotated the rice genomes for gene content, repetitive elements, gene duplications (tandem and segmental) and single nucleotide polymorphisms between rice subspecies. Designed as a basic platform, BGI-RIS presents the sequenced genomes and related information in systematic and graphical ways for the convenience of in-depth comparative studies (http://rise.genomics.org.cn/).
14681439	The Rice Genome Research Project in Japan performs genome sequencing and comprehensive expression profiling, constructs genetic and physical maps, collects full-length cDNAs and generates mutant lines, all aimed at improving the breeding of the rice plant as a food source. The National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences in Tsukuba, Japan, has accumulated numerous rice biological resources and has already successfully produced a high-quality genome sequence, a high-density genetic map with 3000 markers, 30,000 full-length cDNAs, over 700 expression profiles with a 9000 cDNA microarray and 15,000 flanking sequences with Tos17 insertions in about 3765 mutant lines from about 50,000 transposon insertion lines. These resources are available in the public domain. A new unification tool for functional genomics, called Rice PIPELINE, has also been developed for the dynamic collection and compilation of genomics data (genome sequences, full-length cDNAs, gene expression profiles, mutant lines, cis elements) from various databases. The mission of Rice PIPELINE is to provide a unique scientific resource that pools publicly available rice genomic data for search by clone sequence, clone name, GenBank accession number, or keyword. The web-based form of Rice PIPELINE is available at http://cdna01.dna.affrc.go.jp/PIPE/.
14681440	The Rice Proteome Database is the first detailed database to describe the proteome of rice. The current release contains 21 reference maps based on two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) of proteins from rice tissues and subcellular compartments. These reference maps comprise 11 941 identified proteins showing tissue and subcellular localization, corresponding to 4180 separate protein entries in the database. The Rice Proteome Database contains the calculated properties of each protein such as molecular weight, isoelectric point and expression; experimentally determined properties such as amino acid sequences obtained using protein sequencers and mass spectrometry; and the results of database searches such as sequence homologies. The database is searchable by keyword, accession number, protein name, isoelectric point, molecular weight and amino acid sequence, or by selection of a spot on one of the 2D-PAGE reference maps. Cross-references are provided to tools for proteomics and to other 2D-PAGE databases, which in turn provide many links to other molecular databases. The information in the Rice Proteome Database is updated weekly, and is available on the World Wide Web at http://gene64.dna.affrc.go.jp/RPD/.
14681532	Posttranslational glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) lipid anchoring is common not only for animal and fungal but also for plant proteins. The attachment of the GPI moiety to the carboxyl-terminus after proteolytic cleavage of a C-terminal propeptide is performed by the transamidase complex. Its four known subunits also have obvious full-length orthologs in the Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa) genomes; thus, the mechanism of substrate protein processing appears similar for all eukaryotes. A learning set of plant proteins (substrates for the transamidase complex) has been collected both from the literature and plant sequence databases. We find that the plant GPI lipid anchor motif differs in minor aspects from the animal signal (e.g. the plant hydrophobic tail region can contain a higher fraction of aromatic residues). We have developed the "big-Pi plant" program for prediction of compatibility of query protein C-termini with the plant GPI lipid anchor motif requirements. Validation tests show that the sensitivity for transamidase targets is approximately 94%, and the rate of false positive prediction is about 0.1%. Thus, the big-Pi predictor can be applied as unsupervised genome annotation and target selection tool. The program is also suited for the design of modified protein constructs to test their GPI lipid anchoring capacity. The big-Pi plant predictor Web server and lists of potential plant precursor proteins in Swiss-Prot, SPTrEMBL, Arabidopsis, and rice proteomes are available at http://mendel.imp.univie.ac.at/gpi/plants/gpi_plants.html. Arabidopsis and rice protein hits have been functionally classified. Several GPI lipid-anchored arabinogalactan-related proteins have been identified in rice.
14682238	Appearance of rice grain represents a major character of rice quality in many rice-producing areas of the world, especially in hybrid rice production in China. In this study, we conducted a molecular marker-based genetic analysis of the traits that are determinants of the appearance quality of rice grains, including grain length, grain width and grain shape (measured as grain length to grain width ratio). Two typical indica/japonica varieties Balilla and Nantehao(NTH) were selected to construct Balilla/NTH//Balilla backcross population containing 142 individuals. In the population, grain length, grain width and grain shape all conform to the normal distribution with certain transgressive segregation. It can be deduced that all of three traits were controlled by some quantitative trait loci (QTLs). In order to explore the QTLs effect, number and location, a linkage map consisting of 108 SSR markers based on the backcross population was constructed, and QTLs mapping was carried out for grain length, grain width and grain shape. A QTL, qGL-12, was detected for grain length at the interval RM101-RM270 on chromosome 12, its additive effect was 0.26 mm, and can explain 16.7% genetic variation. As for grain width trait, two QTLs were found, qGW-2 located at RM154-RM211 interval on chromosome 2, and qGW-3 at interval RM257-RM175 on chromosome 3, accounting for 11.5% and 16.6% genetic variation, respectively. The alleles at qGW-2 and qGW-3 from parent Balilla can increase grain width by 0.10 mm and 0.12 mm. For grain shape, 3 QTLs, qLW-2, qLW-6 and qLW-7 were found, located on chromosome 2, 6, and 7, respectively. qLW-2 and qLW-7 had positive effect, and they can explain 12.7% and 18.3% genetic variation, while qLW-6 had negative effect and contributed 11.5% genetic variation to the backcross population. The prospects of application of linkage relationship between SSR marker and QTLs in marker based selection (MAS) in rice breeding, and the improvement of grain shape and rice appearance quality were discussed.
14682614	The Arabidopsis thaliana actin gene family comprises eight genes, which are divided into two ancient classes, vegetative and reproductive. We dissected various 5' elements and the conserved expression pattern of the reproductive actin gene ACT1, which is the most strongly expressed pollen actin gene. A basal construct containing only 310 bp of sequence upstream of the major transcriptional start site showed essentially full promoter activity in pollen and ovules. Further truncations of the 5'-flanking region and two different 10 bp replacements within a 55 bp conserved domain each caused a several-fold reduction in mature pollen expression. Intron L, located in the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) was also required for high-level expression of pollen and organ primordia, and it had the properties of an enhancer. Pollen expression was not preserved when intron L was precisely replaced by intron L2 from the vegetatively expressed actin gene ACT2. ACT1 reporter gene constructs were strongly expressed in both pollen and ovules of tobacco and in the pollen of rice. Promoter-reporter fusions of the most distantly related Arabidopsis reproductive actin gene ACT1 showed strong expression in tobacco pollen and ovules indistinguishable from that directed by ACT1. Thus, multiple conserved cis-sequence elements within the 5'-flanking region and 5'-UTR of ACT1 direct high levels of reproductive tissue-specific expression.
14682618	We have isolated a cold-inducible gene (designated OsCK1) from Oryza sativa by a differential cDNA screening technique. Sequence analysis indicated that the open reading frame of the OsCK1 gene consists of 1350 bp encoding 449 amino acid residues, which is very similar to a family of calcineurin B-like protein (CBL)-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs) or salt overly sensitive 2 (SOS2)-like protein kinases (PKS) in Arabidopsis. CIPKs/PKS are a group of Ser/Thr protein kinases associated with the AtCBL/SOS3-like calcium-binding proteins (SCaBP). OsCK1 actually interacts with AtCBL3 through the C-terminal region in a yeast two-hybrid system, suggesting that OsCK1 is probably a rice orthologue of one of the CIPK/PKS members. Expression of the OsCK1 gene was detected mainly in the shoots and highly inducible by diverse signals such as cold, light, salt, sugar and cytokinins. In addition, calcium increased the OsCK1 transcript level, whereas a calcium ionophore, A23187, partially abolished stimulus-induced expressions. OsCK1 phosphorylated itself and a generic substrate, myelin basic protein, in the preference of Mn2+. Deletion of the C-terminal region from OsCK1 significantly decreased autophosphorylation activity without affecting the ability for substrate phosphorylation. These findings suggest that the CBL/CIPK or SCaBP/PKS signaling pathways recently found in Arabidopsis may also exist in rice and function in cold response in which calcium signal serves as a second messenger.
14683127	We show that any amount of anisotropy moves the Oslo model to another known universality class, the exponents of which can be derived exactly. This amounts to an exact solution of the quenched Edwards-Wilkinson equation with a drift term. We argue that anisotropy is likely to be experimentally relevant and may explain why consistent exponents have not been extracted in the rice pile experiments.
14684820	Gene enrichment strategies offer an alternative to sequencing large and repetitive genomes such as that of maize. We report the generation and analysis of nearly 100,000 undermethylated (or methylation filtration) maize sequences. Comparison with the rice genome reveals that methylation filtration results in a more comprehensive representation of maize genes than those that result from expressed sequence tags or transposon insertion sites sequences. About 7% of the repetitive DNA is unmethylated and thus selected in our libraries, but potentially active transposons and unmethylated organelle genomes can be identified. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction can be used to finish the maize transcriptome.
14684843	In higher plant plastids, ferredoxin (Fd) is the unique soluble electron carrier protein located in the stroma. Consequently, a wide variety of essential metabolic and signaling processes depend upon reduction by Fd. The currently available plant genomes of Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa) contain several genes encoding putative Fds, although little is known about the proteins themselves. To establish whether this variety represents redundancy or specialized function, we have recombinantly expressed and purified the four conventional [2Fe-2S] Fd proteins encoded in the Arabidopsis genome and analyzed their physical and functional properties. Two proteins are leaf type Fds, having relatively low redox potentials and supporting a higher photosynthetic activity. One protein is a root type Fd, being more efficiently reduced under nonphotosynthetic conditions and supporting a higher activity of sulfite reduction. A further Fd has a remarkably positive redox potential and so, although redox active, is limited in redox partners to which it can donate electrons. Immunological analysis indicates that all four proteins are expressed in mature leaves. This holistic view demonstrates how varied and essential soluble electron transfer functions in higher plants are fulfilled through a diversity of Fd proteins.
14686942	Stable isotope probing (SIP) is a novel technique to characterize structure and in situ function of active microbial populations, which is based on the incorporation of 13C-labelled substrates into nucleic acids. Here, we have traced methylotrophic members of a rice field soil microbial community, which became active upon continuous addition of 13C-methanol (< 22 mM) as studied in microcosms. By combining rRNA- and DNA-based SIP, as well as domain-specific real-time PCR detection of templates in fractions of centrifugation gradients, we were able to detect 13C-labelled bacterial rRNA after 6 days of incubation. Fingerprinting and comparative sequence analysis of 'heavy' bacterial rRNA showed that mostly members of the Methylobacteriaceae and a novel clade within the Methylophilaceae formed part of the indigenous methylotrophic community. Over time, however, the Methylophilaceae were enriched. Unexpectedly, nucleic acids of eukaryotic origin were detected, mostly in intermediately 13C-labelled gradient fractions. These eukaryotes were identified as fungi mostly related to Fusarium and Aspergillus spp., and also Cercozoa, known as predatory soil flagellates. The detection of fungi and protozoa in 13C-enriched nucleic acid fractions suggests a possible involvement in either direct assimilation of label by the fungi, or a food web, i.e. that primary 13C-methanol consuming methylotrophs were decomposed by fungi and grazed by protozoa.
14688243	It was reported recently that overexpression of human ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) cDNA in transgenic rice plants resulted in increased steady-state concentration of polyamines, i.e., enough biosynthetic control is invested at this step to enable adjustment of polyamine levels. To investigate critically whether constitutive overexpression of ODC is sufficient to control steady-state polyamine levels, we expressed an ODC cDNA from Datura stramonium in transgenic tobacco plants. Transgenic progeny of self-fertilised primary transformants exhibited increases in ODC activity of 25-fold in leaves and 5-fold in flower buds. However, the increase in putrescine levels was only 1.5- to 2.1-fold in leaves and 1.1- to 1.3-fold in flower buds. Emphatically, no changes to spermidine or spermine steady-state levels or to soluble or insoluble hydroxycinnamic acid-conjugated polyamines were observed. Ornithine feeding to cell suspension cultures derived from the transgenic plants indicated that putrescine accumulation was limited in part by ornithine availability. These results demonstrate that a large increase in the capacity of the tobacco plants to decarboxylate ornithine does not result in a comparable increase in the level of free or conjugated polyamines. Plant polyamine homeostatic mechanisms efficiently accommodate increased ODC activity, suggesting that polyamine biosynthetic control is invested at multiple interdependent steps.
14688805	The purpose of this study was to clarify the effects of popular Japanese alcoholic beverages on blood pressure. We performed a cross-sectional study on 4335 Japanese male workers using baseline data from an intervention study. We defined six groups according to the type of alcoholic beverage that provided two-thirds of the subject's total alcohol consumption: beer, sake (rice wine), shochu (traditional Japanese spirits), whiskey, wine and others. The partial regression coefficients of daily alcohol intake (1 drink=11.5 g of ethanol) to systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were 0.87(P<0.001, standard error (s.e.)=0.09) and 0.77(P<0.001, s.e.=0.06), respectively. A comparison among the types of alcoholic beverages mainly consumed revealed significant differences in SBP and DBP. Both SBP and DBP were highest in the shochu group. However, an analysis of covariance adjusting for total alcohol consumption resulted in the disappearance of these differences. Although after adjustment for total alcohol consumption, the shochu group exhibited a significant positive association with 'high-normal blood pressure or greater' (odds ratio 1.43, 95% confidence interval 1.06-1.95) compared with the beer group, this significant relation disappeared after adjusting for the body mass index (BMI), urinary sodium and potassium excretion. The pressor effect, per se, of popular Japanese alcoholic beverages on blood pressure may not be different among the types of alcoholic beverages after adjusting for other lifestyle factors.
14690407	Two lots of human foodstuffs from conventional and organic brand foods were purchased from supermarkets and analyzed for three Fusarium toxins, deoxynivalenol, by GC-ECD, and fumonisins B(1) and B(2) (FB(1)-FB(2)), by LC-MS. The occurrence of deoxynivalenol contamination was higher than 80% in both organic and conventional foods; fumonisin B(1) was found in 20% of organic foods and in 31% of conventional ones and fumonisin B(2) in more than the 32% of the food samples from both the agricultural practices. The highest median concentration of deoxynivalenol occurred in conventional rice-based foodstuffs (207 microg/kg): that of fumonisin B(1) in conventional maize-based foods (345 microg/kg) and that of fumonisin B(2) in organic wheat-based foods (210 microg/kg).
14690504	Mitochondria from normal (NA)- and Texas (T)-cytoplasm maize (Zea mays L.) were purified from unpollinated ears via Percoll centrifugation. Approximately 300 mitochondrial proteins were resolved using two-dimensional (2-D) electrophoresis. The 197 most abundant proteins were analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-ToF) mass spectrometry involving overlapping pH gradients (pH 4-7 and 6-9). Database searches identified 58 genes that encode 100 of these protein spots. Functions could be predicted for 38 of the 58 genes (66%). All but one of these genes are located in the nuclear genome. Thirteen per cent of the analyzed protein spots (25 out of 197) exhibited at least a threefold difference in accumulation between the mitochondrial proteomes of NA- or T-cytoplasm maize plants that had essentially identical nuclear genomes. As most of these proteins were nuclear-encoded, these findings demonstrate that the genotype of a mitochondrion can regulate the accumulation of the nuclear-encoded fraction of its proteome. About half (27 out of 58) of the maize mitochondrial proteins identified in this study were not recovered in previous analyses of the Arabidopsis and rice mitochondrial proteomes.
14690513	A two-element Activator/Dissociation (Ac/Ds) gene trap system was successfully established in rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare) to generate a collection of stable, unlinked and single-copy Ds transposants. The germinal transposition frequency of Ds was estimated as an average of 51% by analyzing 4413 families. Study of Ds transposition pattern in siblings revealed that 79% had at least two different insertions, suggesting late transposition during rice development. Analysis of 2057 Ds flanking sequences showed that 88% of them were unique, whereas the rest within T-DNA. The insertions were distributed randomly throughout the genome; however, there was a bias toward chromosomes 4 and 7, which had two times as many insertions as that expected. A hot spot for Ds insertions was identified on chromosome 7 within a 40-kbp region. One-third of Ds flanking sequences was homologous to either proteins or rice expressed sequence tags (ESTs), confirming a preference for Ds transposition into coding regions. Analysis of 200 Ds lines on chromosome 1 revealed that 72% insertions were found in genic region. Anchoring of more than 800 insertions to yeast artificial chromosome (YAC)-based EST map showed that Ds transposes preferentially into regions rich in expressed sequences. High germinal transposition frequency and independent transpositions among siblings show that the efficiency of this system is suitable for large-scale transposon mutagenesis in rice.
14692878	The bglu1 cDNA for a beta-glucosidase cloned from rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings was expressed as a soluble and active protein in Escherichia coli and designated BGlu1. This enzyme hydrolysed beta-1,4-linked oligosaccharides with increasing catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km) values as the DP (degree of polymerization) increased from 2 to 6. In contrast, hydrolysis of beta-1,3-linked oligosaccharides decreased from DP 2 to 3, and polymers with a DP greater than 3 were not hydrolysed. The enzyme also hydrolysed p -nitrophenyl beta-D-glycosides and some natural glucosides but with lower catalytic efficiency than beta-linked oligosaccharides. Pyridoxine 5'-O-beta-D-glucoside was the most efficiently hydrolysed natural glycoside tested. BGlu1 also had high transglucosylation activity towards pyridoxine, producing pyridoxine 5'-O-beta-D-glucopyranoside in the presence of the glucose donor p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucoside.
14693376	We isolated and sequenced both genomic DNA and cDNA clones, which encoded a putative GT1-like protein with 385 amino acids, from cultivated rice (Oryza sativa ssp. indica). This protein shows significant amino acid sequence similarities with trihelix DNA-binding GT-1a/B2F and GT-1 factors that were identified in dicot plants. Northern blotting analysis indicated that the transcript of the rice GT-1 factor in seedling was up-regulated by the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea, down-regulated by various continuous light conditions and expressed rhythmically in light/dark cycles. This GT1-like factor gene was therefore designated as rml1 (rice gene regulated by M. grisea and light). The putative RML1 protein, encoded by this single copy gene, is thus identified as a new member of the plant-specific GT family of transcription factors in rice.
14693377	We have previously reported a gene Tdpoz1 (previously called 2cpoz56) that is temporally expressed in unfertilized eggs and in early embryos of the mouse. The putative TDPOZ1 protein carries a tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) domain (TD) and a POZ/BTB domain. On the analysis of nine bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones, we have uncovered four more Tdpoz1 homologs in the mouse genome, designated Tdpoz2 through Tdpoz5. Tdpoz1 and Tdpoz2 are found 30 kb apart in a fully sequenced BAC clone (GenBank accession number AF545858). The genes are intronless in the coding region and each carries an intron in the 5'-untranslated region as in other early embryonic genes. The Tdpoz gene cluster is mapped on chromosome 3 at 3F2.1-2.2. RT-PCR experiments and a search of expressed sequence tag (EST) databases show that the Tdpoz1-5 genes are transcribed in early embryos, particularly at the two-cell stage. Exhaustive database searches have further uncovered three more mouse Tdpoz homologs in chromosomes 3 and 11 and 25 other Tdpoz-like orthologs in the genomes of other animal and plant species including human, rat, C. elegans, Drosophila, Arabidopsis and rice. In the rat genome, eight rat Tdpoz genes are found as a cluster in chromosome 2. Hence, TDPOZ proteins form a new protein family on the basis of similar protein domain organization. Based on reported characteristics of known TD- and POZ-bearing proteins, we speculate that TDPOZ proteins may be nuclear scaffold proteins probably involved in transcription regulation in early development and other cellular processes.
14693379	Gene transfer from the mitochondrion to the nucleus, a process of outstanding importance to the evolution of the eukaryotic cell, is an on-going phenomenon in higher plants. After transfer, the mitochondrial gene has to be adapted to the nuclear context by acquiring a new promoter and targeting information to direct the protein back to the organelle. To better understand the strategies developed by higher plants to transfer organellar genes during evolution, we investigated the fate of the mitochondrial RPL5-RPS14 locus in grasses. While maize mitochondrial genome does not contain RPS14 and RPL5 genes, wheat mitochondrial DNA contains an intact RPL5 gene and a nonfunctional RPS14 pseudogene. RPL5 and PsiRPS14 are co-transcribed and their transcripts are edited. In wheat, the functional RPS14 gene is located in the nucleus, within the intron of the respiratory complex II iron-sulfur subunit gene (SDH2). Its organization and expression mechanisms are similar to those previously described in maize and rice, allowing us to conclude that RPS14 transfer and nuclear activation occurred before divergence of these grasses. Unexpectedly, we found evidence for a more recent RPL5 transfer to the nucleus in wheat. This nuclear wheat RPL5 acquired its targeting information by duplication of an existing targeting presequence for another mitochondrial protein, ribosomal protein L4. Thus, mitochondrial and nuclear functional RPL5 genes appear to be maintained in wheat, supporting the hypothesis that in an intermediate stage of the transfer process, both nuclear and mitochondrial functional genes coexist. Finally, we show that RPL5 has been independently transferred to the nucleus in the maize lineage and has acquired regulatory elements for its expression and a mitochondrial targeting peptide from an unknown source.
14693448	Ohmic heating has been shown to increase the extraction yields of sucrose from sugar beets, apple juice from apples, beet dye from beet root, and soymilk from soybeans. Rice bran is a byproduct of the rice milling process that has economic potential by virtue of highly nutritious rice bran oil contained within the bran. In this study, ohmic heating was used to stabilize rice bran and to improve rice bran oil extraction yield as compared to microwave heating and a control (no heating). Results showed that ohmic heating is an effective method for rice bran stabilization with moisture addition. Free fatty acid concentration increased more slowly than the control for raw bran samples subjected to ohmic heating with no corresponding temperature rise, indicating that electricity has a non-thermal effect on lipase activity. Ohmic heating increased the total percent of lipids extracted from rice bran to a maximum of 92%, while 53% of total lipids were extracted from the control samples. Lowering the frequency of alternating current significantly increased the amount of oil extracted, probably due to electroporation. Ohmic heating was successfully applied to rice bran despite its high oil content. This could have important implications for the enhanced extraction of non-polar constituents.
14693804	Protein localization data are a valuable information resource helpful in elucidating protein functions. It is highly desirable to predict a protein's subcellular locations automatically from its sequence. In this paper, fuzzy k-nearest neighbors (k-NN) algorithm has been introduced to predict proteins' subcellular locations from their dipeptide composition. The prediction is performed with a new data set derived from version 41.0 SWISS-PROT databank, the overall predictive accuracy about 80% has been achieved in a jackknife test. The result demonstrates the applicability of this relative simple method and possible improvement of prediction accuracy for the protein subcellular locations. We also applied this method to annotate six entirely sequenced proteomes, namely Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Oryza sativa, Arabidopsis thaliana and a subset of all human proteins. Supplementary information and subcellular location annotations for eukaryotes are available at http://166.111.30.65/hying/fuzzy_loc.htm
14694304	Little is known of the effects on gastric function after ileal J pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) for ulcerative colitis. This study aimed to determine whether patients with postoperative high stool frequency after IPAA exhibit impaired gastric function. Gastric emptying time (GET) for a solid diet (rice gruel) with the use of a radioisotope method and for a liquid diet (orange juice) with the use of an acetaminophen method were assessed in 36 patients with ulcerative colitis more than 30 months after closure of protective ileostomy. Patients were divided into 2 groups: 18 patients with stool frequency less than 6 per day (group A) and 18 patients with stool frequency more than 7 per day (group B). GET for solid and liquid diets in groups A and B were compared with those in 18 healthy volunteers (group C). We correlated the time of peak blood concentration of acetaminophen (TPBCA) and both individual stool frequency per day and the length of distal ileum removed. GET for the solid diet in groups A and B was not altered by IPAA compared with group C. GET for the liquid diet in groups A and B was slower than in group C (P<.0001). GETs for the liquid diet at 60 minutes or more in group A were slower than in group B (P<.0001); TPBCA was longer in group A than in groups B or C (P<.01). There were inverse correlations between TPBCA and individual stool frequency per day and between TPBCA and length of distal ileum removed (P<.001). Rapid transit from the stomach of the liquid diet in group B compared with group A may influence high stool frequency after IPAA. Our results suggested that, to obtain an adequate stool frequency after IPAA, the length of distal ileum removal should be less than 15 cm.
14694813	Rice, a cereal widely used in Venezuela for human and animal nutrition, is susceptible to aflatoxin contamination in the field and during storage. Therefore, the goal of this research was the evaluation of the efficacy and permanence of the ammoniation process through high pressure/high temperature (HP/HT) and atmospheric pressure/moderate temperature (AP/MT) conditions applied to rice samples artificially contaminated with aflatoxin B1. For this purpose a 2k design was drawn up considering the temperature, the rice moisture and the process time as variables. Under both sets of conditions, aflatoxin B1 concentration was reduced in a range of 90% to 100%. After in vitro stomach digestion simulation, toxin reversion ranged from 0% to 19%. In conclusion, the process efficacy and permanence were achieved through the use of high temperature and long process time for both sets of conditions (HP/HT and AP/MT), respectively.
14696880	A middle-aged man presented with joint pain and muscle weakness that had begun 2 months before presentation. Three months before presentation, he had begun to take the herbal preparation Chinese red rice. Laboratory testing revealed a moderately elevated creatine phosphokinase level. Symptoms and laboratory abnormalities resolved with discontinuation of the Chinese red rice. Eight months later, he resumed the product and his creatine phosphokinase level rose again. Lovastatin is a naturally occurring component of Chinese red rice and was the probable cause of his myopathy.
14697270	The Arabidopsis thaliana genome has over 550 protease sequences representing all five catalytic types: serine, cysteine, aspartic acid, metallo and threonine (MEROPS peptidase database, http://merops.sanger.ac.uk/), which probably reflect a wide variety of as yet unidentified functions performed by plant proteases. Recent indications that the 26S proteasome, a T1 family-threonine protease, is a regulator of light and hormone responsive signal transduction highlight the potential of proteases to participate in many aspects of plant growth and development. Recent discoveries that proteases are required for stomatal distribution, embryo development and disease resistance point to wider roles for four additional multigene families that include some of the most frequently studied (yet poorly understood) plant proteases: the subtilisin-like, serine proteases (family S8), the papain-like, cysteine proteases (family C1A), the pepsin-like, aspartic proteases (family A1) and the plant matrixin, metalloproteases (family M10A). In this report, 54 subtilisin-like, 30 papain-like and 59 pepsin-like proteases from Arabidopsis, are compared with S8, C1A and A1 proteases known from other plant species at the functional, phylogenetic and gene structure levels. Examples of structural conservation between S8, C1A and A1 genes from rice, barley, tomato and soybean and those from Arabidopsis are noted, indicating that some common, essential plant protease roles were established before the divergence of monocots and eudicots. Numerous examples of tandem duplications of protease genes and evidence for a variety of restricted expression patterns suggest that a high degree of specialization exists among proteases within each family. We propose that comprehensive analysis of the functions of these genes in Arabidopsis will firmly establish serine, cysteine and aspartic proteases as regulators and effectors of a wide range of plant processes.
14701929	Rab7 is a small GTP-binding protein important in early to late endosome/lysosome vesicular transport in mammalian cells. We have isolated a Rab7 cDNA clone, OsRab7, from a cold-treated rice cDNA library by the subtraction screening method. The cDNA encodes a polypeptide of 206 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of about 23 kDa. Its predicted amino acid sequence shows significantly high identity with the sequences of other Rab7 proteins. His-tagged OsRab7 bound to radiolabeled GTPgammaS in a specific and stoichiometric manner. Biochemical and structural properties of the Rab7 wild type (WT) protein were compared to those of Q67L and T22N mutants. The detergent 3-([3-cholamidopropyl]dimethylammonio)-1-propane sulfonate (CHAPS) increased the guanine nucleotide binding and hydrolysis activities of Rab7WT. The OsRab7Q67L mutant showed much lower GTPase activity compared to the WT protein untreated with CHAPS, and the T22N mutant showed no GTP binding activity at all. The OsRab7Q67L mutant was constitutively active for guanine nucleotide binding while the T22N mutant (dominant negative) showed no guanine nucleotide binding activity. When bound to GTP, the Rab7WT and the Q67L mutants were protected from tryptic proteolysis. The cleavage pattern of the Rab7T22N mutant, however, was not affected by GTP addition. Northern and Western blot analyses suggested that OsRab7 is distributed in various tissues of rice. Furthermore, expression of a rice Rab7 gene was differentially regulated by various environmental stimuli such as cold, NaCl, dehydration, and ABA. In addition, subcellular localization of OsRab7 was investigated in the Arabidopsis protoplasts by a double-labeling experiment using GFP-fused OsRab7 and FM4-64. GFP-OsRab7 is localized to the vacuolar membrane, suggesting that OsRab7 is implicated in a vesicular transport to the vacuole in plant cells.
14701933	Barley HvPIP2;1 is a plasma membrane aquaporin and its expression was down-regulated after salt stress in barley [Katsuhara et al. (2002) Plant Cell Physiol. 43: 885]. We produced and analyzed transgenic rice plants over-expressing barley HvPIP2;1 in the present study. Over-expression of HvPIP2;1 increased (1) radial hydraulic conductivity of roots (Lp(r)) to 140%, and (2) the mass ratio of shoot to root up to 150%. In these transgenic rice plants under salt stress of 100 mM NaCl, growth reduction was greater than in non-transgenic plants. A decrease in shoot water content (from 79% to 61%) and reduction of root mass or shoot mass (both less than 40% of non-stressed plants) were observed in transgenic plants under salt stress for 2 weeks. These results indicated that over-expression of HvPIP2;1 makes rice plants sensitive to 100 mM NaCl. The possible involvement of aquaporins in salt tolerance is discussed.
14701935	The three members of the rice OsAMT1 gene family of ammonium transporters show distinct expression patterns; constitutive and ammonium-promoted expression in shoots and roots for OsAMT1;1; root-specific and ammonium-inducible expression for OsAMT1;2; root-specific and nitrogen-repressible expression for OsAMT1;3 [Sonoda et al. (2003), Plant Cell Physiol. 44: 726]. To clarify the feedback mechanisms, and to identify regulatory factors of the OsAMT1 genes, the accumulation of the three mRNAs and its dependence on endogenous nitrogen compounds (as quantified by capillary electrophoresis) was studied. Ammonium application to roots following a period of nitrogen starvation induced accumulation of OsAMT1;1 and OsAMT1;2 mRNA, but a decrease of OsAMT1;3 mRNA levels. The expression patterns of the three genes showed good correlation (positive in OsAMT1;1 and OsAMT1;2, negative in OsAMT1;3) with the root tissue contents of glutamine but not of ammonium. The ammonium effects on OsAMT1 expression were prevented by methionine sulfoximine, an inhibitor of glutamine synthetase. Moreover, glutamine had the same effect on transcriptional regulation of OsAMT1 genes as ammonium, indicating that glutamine rather than ammonium controls the expression of ammonium transporter genes in rice. These results imply that rice possesses unique mechanisms of adaptation to variable nitrogen sources in the soil.
14701936	We have generated 47 DNA pools and 235 subpools from 21,049 T-DNA insertion lines of rice. DNA pools of 500-1,000 lines were adequate for screening a T-DNA insertion within a 2-kb region. To examine the efficacy of the DNA pools, we selected MADS-box genes, which play an important role in controlling various aspects of plant development. A total of 34 MIKC-type MADS-box genes have now been identified from rice sequence databases. Our PCR screening for T-DNA insertions within 12 MADS-box genes resulted in the identification of five insertions in four different genes. These DNA pools will be valuable when isolating T-DNA insertional mutants in various rice genes. The DNA pool screening service and the mutant seeds are available upon request to genean@postech.ac.kr.
14704206	Unlike many eudicot species, grasses have duplicated PI/GLO-like genes. Functional analysis of one of the rice PI/GLO paralogs, OsMADS2, is reported here. Our data demonstrate its essential role in lodicule development and implicate the second PI/GLO paralog, OsMADS4, to suffice for stamen specification. We provide the first evidence for differential contributions of grass PI/GLO paralogs in patterning second- and third-whorl floral organs.
14704272	The phloem-specific promoter of rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) is regulated in part by sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins that bind to Box II, an essential cis element. Previous studies demonstrated that the bZIP protein RF2a is involved in transcriptional regulation of the RTBV promoter. Here we report the identification and functional characterization of a second bZIP protein, RF2b. RF2b, identified by its interaction with RF2a, binds to Box II in in vitro assays as a homodimer and as RF2a/RF2b heterodimers. Like RF2a, RF2b activates the RTBV promoter in transient assays and in transgenic tobacco plants. Both RF2a and RF2b are predominantly expressed in vascular tissues. However, RF2a and RF2b have different DNA-binding affinities to Box II, show distinctive expression patterns in different rice organs, and exhibit different patterns of subcellular localization. Furthermore, transgenic rice plants with reduced levels of RF2b exhibit a disease-like phenotype. We propose that the regulation of phloem-specific expression of the RTBV promoter and potentially the control of RTBV replication are mainly achieved via interactions of the Box II cis element with multiple host factors, including RF2a and RF2b. We also propose that quenching/titration of these and perhaps other transcription factors by RTBV is involved in the development of the symptoms of rice tungro disease.
14704306	Dietary fiber supplementation can increase the size and nutrient absorption capacities of the small intestine in some mammals, but does this increase the risk of accumulating environmental contaminants? This study addressed this question by feeding mice diets containing various types of fiber at 0 or 100 g/kg (cellulose, lactosucrose, polydextrose, indigestible dextrin, soy polysaccharide, rice bran and chitosan) for 10 wk. During the final 2 wk, the mice were fed retinol and a dose of Arochlor 1254 [polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB)] estimated to be 5% of the median lethal dose. Accumulation was determined using whole blood samples collected on days 1, 3 and 7 as well as eight tissues (whole blood, small and large intestine, liver, gall bladder, mesentery, kidney and brain). Elimination of Arochlor 1254 and retinol was determined using daily collections of feces and urine. The patterns of accumulation and elimination differed between Arochlor 1254 and retinol, among tissues, and among mice fed diets with various amounts and types of fiber. Dietary fiber supplementation did not decrease accumulation of PCB. However, the diet with chitosan increased fecal excretion of Arochlor 1254 compared to the fiber-free diet (P<0.05). The diets with fermentable fiber (polydextrose, indigestible dextrin and soy polysaccharides) increased urinary excretion of PCB compared to the diets with water-insoluble fiber (cellulose, rice bran and chitosan; P<0.05). The most efficacious diets for minimizing accumulation of environmental contaminants and accelerating elimination likely include a combination of soluble and insoluble fiber, but the specific types, proportions and amounts remain to be determined.
14704427	A previously unknown maltose transporter is essential for the conversion of starch to sucrose in Arabidopsis leaves at night. The transporter was identified by isolating two allelic mutants with high starch levels and very high maltose, an intermediate of starch breakdown. The mutations affect a gene of previously unknown function, MEX1. We show that MEX1is a maltose transporter that is unrelated to other sugar transporters. The severe mex1 phenotype demonstrates that MEX1is the predominant route of carbohydrate export from chloroplasts at night. Homologous genes in plants including rice and potato indicate that maltose export is of widespread significance.
14705374	The estimated population of the Bedouins are up to two million in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, but relatively little information is available about them. The aim of the study was to assess the oral hygiene dietary pattern and smoking habits of Saudi Bedouins population around Medina, Qaseen and Khamis Moshayte areas. Five hundred and twenty five Bedouins (296 male, 229 female) with the age range 2-90 years were interviewed and examined clinically over a period of four months (July to October 1998). It was found that 25% of the subjects were miswak users, 30% used miswak and tooth brush, while 26% never cleaned their teeth. Almost 50% of the subjects were regular in their oral hygiene habits. Seventy percent were rice eaters while meat and dates were second and third preference. Tea was the most common drink with 2-3 teaspoons of sugar per cup. Only ten percent were cigarette smokers and less than 5% used shisha (traditional smoking pipe). It is concluded from the study that within the surveyed Bedouin population one fourth of them never cleaned their teeth while almost the same number used miswak (Chewing stick) to clean their teeth. Rice was the most common food item, while tea with refined sugar was the most common drink. Only 15% were smoker. Further research is needed with a larger and a more representative sample of Bedouins from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
14705843	On December 26, 2002, 124 dinners took ill while eating lunch at a seafood restaurant in the town of Chiching in Kaohsiung municipality of Taiwan. Sixty-nine people were sent to the emergency departments of the Municipal Chiching Hospital and Yuan's General Hospital. We analyzed the clinical symptoms, detailed food history, and ingested amount of each food from 59 hospitalized adult patients and identified the source of the outbreak. The median latency period from beginning eating to first symptoms was 5 min. Twenty-six symptoms and signs were recorded. The most commonly reported clinical effects were general weakness (84%), ataxia (82%), dizziness (82%), vomiting (80%), sweating (75%), floating sensation (71%), headache (69%), dyspnea (69%), and blurred vision (67%). Thirty-one patients had residual symptoms 7 days after ingestion. Of the six residual symptoms reported, the most frequent ones were dizziness (40%), poor appetite and dry mouth (11%), and gastrointestinal disturbance (11%). The presence of residual symptoms correlated with the severity of the initial complaints (p < 0.01). Almost all patients ate cooked rice (93%) and leaf vegetable stir-fried with crab claw (93%). The amount of each food eaten by the patients was not associated with the severity of symptoms (p > 0.05). High levels of methomyl in leaf vegetables of "leaf vegetables stir-fried with crab claws" (380 ppm) and fried mussels (1113 ppm) were found by the Food Inspection Center at the Department of Health. The food history and chemical analysis of the poison indicated methomyl was the cause of this outbreak. Twenty-four patients recovered completely within 7 days. Food-related methomyl intoxication produced a rapid onset of significant clinical toxicity in 124 individuals. Based on the analysis of 55 adult patients, the most common effects were gait ataxia, dizziness, generalized weakness, and vomiting.
14705919	Monacolin K is a secondary metabolite of Monascus species and reduces cholesterol levels. This research focuses on the effect of adding red mold rice to hens' diet on cholesterol level in egg yolk and on cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels in serum. Forty-eight Hy-line laying hens of 48 weeks of age were studied by dividing them into four groups. Except for the control group, the feed for three other groups contained 2.0, 5.0, and 8.0% red mold rice (monacolin K concentrations were 0.0145, 0.035, and 0.056%, respectively). The experiment lasted 6 weeks. During this period, egg weight and egg production were recorded every day, and cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL, and LDL in serum were measured weekly as well. The result showed that the cholesterol in eggs produced by experimental groups was lower than that of the control group (0%, 194.14 +/- 8.30; 2%, 167.17 +/- 4.34; 5%, 168.93 +/- 9.38; 8%, 183.02 +/- 7.63 mg/egg; p < 0.05), and the triglyceride (0%, 1494 +/- 178; 2%, 1280 +/- 174; 5%, 1189 +/- 248; 8%, 1381 +/- 218 mg/dL; p < 0.05) and LDL levels (0%, 36.81 +/- 5.53; 2%, 32.25 +/- 7.93; 5%, 30.06 +/- 4.39; 8%, 28.81 +/- 4.16 mg/dL; p < 0.05) were also significantly lowered in the experimental groups. However, the HDL level did not show significant change for either control or experimental groups (0%, 36.06 +/- 3.96; 2%, 36.25 +/- 5.39; 5%, 33.13 +/- 3.68; 8%, 31.44 +/- 4.29 mg/dL; p > 0.05). Besides, the addition of red mold rice also helps to inhibit production of malondialdehyde (MDA) in serum lipid oxidation (0%, 27.42 +/- 0.53; 2%, 25.62 +/- 0.76; 5%, 24.35 +/- 0.59; 8%, 23.63 +/- 0.48 microM; p < 0.05).
14708418	Fusarium graminearum is a fungus frequently isolated from cereal grants. In this study, the histopathological effects of dietary F. graminearum on rat kidneys were examined. Treated rats and controls were fed F. graminearum-inoculated and non-inoculated rice, respectively. After 14 days, all the rats were killed and their kidneys were removed and examined using light microscopy. The kidneys of the rats in the treatment group were characterized by the following histopathological findings: patch-like mononuclear cell infiltrations in the cortex; prominent necrosis of proximal tubules; debris areas containing mononuclear cells and degraded renal tubules; shrunken and densely eosinophilic apoptotic cells in the proximal tubule epithelium; karyorrhexis and mitotic figures in the epithelium of both proximal and distal tubules; and many apoptotic bodies in the areas between the renal tubules. It was concluded that dietary F. graminearum caused inflammation and tubular damage in the rat kidney. This is the first microscopic study showing that F. graminearum ingestion is associated with renal damage.
14709177	Natural antisense transcripts control gene expression through post-transcriptional gene silencing by annealing to the complementary sequence of the sense transcript. Because many genome and mRNA sequences have become available recently, genome-wide searches for sense-antisense transcripts have been reported, but few plant sense-antisense transcript pairs have been studied. The Rice Full-Length cDNA Sequencing Project has enabled computational searching of a large number of plant sense-antisense transcript pairs. We identified sense-antisense transcript pairs from 32,127 full-length rice cDNA sequences produced by this project and public rice mRNA sequences by aligning the cDNA sequences with rice genome sequences. We discovered 687 bidirectional transcript pairs in rice, including sense-antisense transcript pairs. Both sense and antisense strands of 342 pairs (50%) showed homology to at least one expressed sequence tag other than that of the pair. Microarray analysis showed 82 pairs (32%) out of 258 pairs on the microarray were more highly expressed than the median expression intensity of 21,938 rice transcriptional units. Both sense and antisense strands of 594 pairs (86%) had coding potential. The large number of plant sense-antisense transcript pairs suggests that gene regulation by antisense transcripts occurs in plants and not only in animals. On the basis of our results, experiments should be carried out to analyze the function of plant antisense transcripts.
14710748	Because agricultural insecticides have potential to disrupt biological control of mosquitoes, we quantified whether an insecticide used in rice fields causes mortality of mosquitofish. Laboratory studies have shown that lambda-cyhalothrin (Warrior) is toxic to fish; however, some studies report low field toxicities of pyrethroids to fish because they degrade rapidly and adsorb to soil. We tested whether Warrior kills mosquitofish under field conditions. Replicated enclosures in a rice field were either sprayed with Warrior at 5.8 g active ingredient/ha or were untreated. Mosquitofish were either added before the spray, or 7 days later. Of those added before the spray, none survived. Most fish added 7 days later survived.
14710754	A written document was developed to clarify the District's adult mosquito-management tactics to other interested individuals and agencies. The program described consists of 7 discrete components: 1) initiation criteria, 2) treatment area delineation, 3) agricultural and land-use practices, 4) meteorological conditions, 5) continuance criteria, 6) termination criteria, and 7) factors influencing implementation. The guidelines were adopted as policy by the District's Board of Trustees in 1998 and have been implemented in each of the last 5 years. The adult mosquito population is monitored with 6 Mosquito Magnets traps strategically located in the rice culture areas. Samples are collected daily and laboratory technicians notify the Adulticide/Airplane Coordinator of collection results before 1:00 p.m.
14710939	Grass pollens are well known among the health hazardous bioaerosols causing respiratory allergy. Being an important member of the grass family, the rice plants contribute a huge pollen load in agricultural fields during flowering. This results in a seasonal trigger of hay fever and respiratory allergy in the field workers and people living in the vicinity. Studies on the monitoring of airborne rice pollen and the intensity of the released allergen in agricultural fields are largely lacking. The aims of the present study were: (1) daily and hourly monitoring of airborne rice pollen in an agricultural field during the flowering period of plants in a winter crop season by using the Burkard 7-Day Volumetric Sampler and (2) the measurement of hourly airborne allergen intensity in the field in a peak rice pollen period by the double-antibody and chemiluminescence techniques to find out its relationship with the airborne rice pollen concentration. The monthly average concentration of rice pollen was 95 pollen m(-3) and the range of daily average pollen concentration was 0 to 386 pollen m(-3). A bimodal diurnal periodicity showed that the airborne rice pollen concentrations remained high at two different times of the day: between 08:00 h to 12:00 h and 14:00 h to 16:00 h. Deposition of airborne rice pollen allergen showed darker intensities on the immunostained tapes from the Burkard Sampler at the same two positions corresponding to higher pollen counts. These observations provided direct evidence of the allergenicity of airborne rice pollen in field conditions.
14711998	During postembryonic development of higher plants, the shoot apical meristem produces lateral organs in a regular spacing (phyllotaxy) and a regular timing (plastochron). Molecular analysis of mutants associated with phyllotaxy and plastochron would greatly increase understanding of the developmental mechanism of plant architecture because phyllotaxy and plastochron are fundamental regulators of plant architecture. pla1 of rice is not only a plastochron mutant showing rapid leaf initiation without affecting phyllotaxy, but also a heterochronic mutant showing ectopic shoot formation in the reproductive phase. Thus, pla1 provides a tool for analyzing the molecular basis of temporal regulation in leaf development. In this work, we isolated the PLA1 gene by map-based cloning. The identified PLA1 gene encodes a cytochrome P450, CYP78A11, which potentially catalyzes substances controlling plant development. PLA1 is expressed in developing leaf primordia, bracts of the panicle, and elongating internodes, but not in the shoot apical meristem. The expression pattern and mutant phenotype suggest that the PLA1 gene acting in developing leaf primordia affects the timing of successive leaf initiation and the termination of vegetative growth.
14713034	Mercury contamination of soil and water is a serious problem at many sites in the United States and throughout the world. Plant species expressing the bacterial mercuric reductase gene, merA, convert ionic mercury, Hg(II), from growth substrates to the less toxic metallic mercury, Hg(0). This activity confers mercury resistance to plants and removes mercury from the plant and substrates through volatilization. Our goal is to develop plants that intercept and remove Hg(II) from polluted aquatic systems before it can undergo bacterially mediated methylation to the neurotoxic methylmercury. Therefore, the merA gene under the control of a monocot promoter was introduced into Oryza sativa L. (rice) by particle gun bombardment. This is the first monocot and first wetland-adapted species to express the gene. The merA-expressing rice germinated and grew on semisolid growth medium spiked with sufficient Hg(II) to kill the nonengineered (wild-type) controls. To confirm that the resistance mechanism was the conversion of Hg(II) to Hg(0), seedlings of merA-expressing O. sativa were grown in Hg(II)-spiked liquid medium or water-saturated soil media and were shown to volatilize significantly more Hg(0) than wild-type counterparts. Further genetic manipulation could yield plants with increased efficiency to extract soil Hg(II) and volatilize it as Hg(0) or with the novel ability to directly convert methylmercury to Hg(0).
1471443	Aspergillus terreus THOM produced appreciable yield of xylanase on medium containing acid pretreated rice straw as sole carbon source. The enzyme was purified approximately 25-fold by ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration through Sephadex G-50 and ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose with a yield of about 23% and specific activity of 15.38 units/mg protein. Optimum activity against xylan was at 45 degrees C and pH 4.5. Relative stability of the enzyme was recorded at pH range of 4-5.5. Heating the enzyme preparation at 60 degrees C for one hour resulted in a 82.61% loss of activity. After exposing to 90 degrees C for 10 minutes xylanase retained 4.28% of its original activity. The purified enzyme lost 25% of the original activity after keeping at 4 degrees C for 9 months in 0.05 M acetate buffer (pH 4.5). The Km value of the enzyme was found to be 0.83 mM. Zn2+ was the most enhancing agent for xylanase activity. Cu2+ followed by Co2+ and K+ were the more deterrent cations. Xylanolytic activity of A. terreus was strongly inhibited by HgCl2, 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP), phloridzin and ethylene diamino tetra acetic acid (EDTA).
14715990
14716083	We investigated a dose-response relationship between renal dysfunction and lifetime cadmium intake in individual subjects using logistic regression analysis and calculated the allowable level of lifetime cadmium intake among the inhabitants of the Jinzu River basin. From the participants of 1967 and 1968 health examinations, target subjects in whose hamlet the cadmium concentration in rice was known and whose history of residence was also known were selected. Cadmium concentrations in rice from data analyzed by the Toyama Prefecture from 1971 to 1976 were used. The urinary examination was done by semiquantitative determination of protein and glucose. All odds ratios for lifetime cadmium intake obtained from logistic regression analysis were more than 1 in both males and females who had resided in their current hamlet since birth with and without subjects who moved from nonpolluted areas and with or without the control group. The allowable levels of lifetime cadmium intake were calculated by substituting the abnormality rates of urinary findings of the controls 40, 50, 60, and 70 yr old into the logistic regression formula. The allowable levels of lifetime cadmium intake were less than 1.58 g for both sexes and each age group using proteinuria with glucosuria measurements.
14716315	Centromeres are the last frontiers of complex eukaryotic genomes, consisting of highly repetitive sequences that resist mapping, cloning and sequencing. The centromere of rice Chromosome 8 (Cen8) has an unusually low abundance of highly repetitive satellite DNA, which allowed us to determine its sequence. A region of approximately 750 kb in Cen8 binds rice CENH3, the centromere-specific H3 histone. CENH3 binding is contained within a larger region that has abundant dimethylation of histone H3 at Lys9 (H3-Lys9), consistent with Cen8 being embedded in heterochromatin. Fourteen predicted and at least four active genes are interspersed in Cen8, along with CENH3 binding sites. The retrotransposons located in and outside of the CENH3 binding domain have similar ages and structural dynamics. These results suggest that Cen8 may represent an intermediate stage in the evolution of centromeres from genic regions, as in human neocentromeres, to fully mature centromeres that accumulate megabases of homogeneous satellite arrays.
14717053	To evaluate the determining factors of the malaria transmission in the northwest region of Madagascar, transversal studies were carried out through one year, from March 1997 to April 1998, in two villages located near Mandritsara, at less than 300 meters above sea level. The rice-growing region forms an intermediate zone between the central highlands with epidemic and instable malaria and the coastal zone with endemic and stable malaria. Mosquitoes were collected when landing on humans during the night and by pyrethrum spray catches as regards endophilic mosquitoes. Three vectors were identified: Anopheles arabiensis, An. gambiae and An. funestus. An. arabiensis and An. gambiae were exophagic and zoophilic. An. funestus was endo-exophagic and anthropophilic but this species shows also a zoophilic trophic deviation. In both villages, An. funestus is the main vector of human malaria. Malaria transmission was estimated to be around 50 and 70 infective bites/person/year in each village.
14717699	We have isolated a laccase (lac1) from culture fluid of Volvariella volvacea, grown in a defined medium containing 150 micro m CuSO4, by ion-exchange and gel filtration chromatography. Lac1 has a molecular mass of 58 kDa as determined by SDS/PAGE and an isoelectric point of 3.7. Degenerate primers based on the N-terminal sequence of purified lac1 and a conserved copper-binding domain were used to generate cDNA fragments encoding a portion of the lac1 protein and RACE was used to obtain full-length cDNA clones. The cDNA of lac1 contained an ORF of 1557 bp encoding 519 amino acids. The amino acid sequence from Ala25 to Asp41 corresponded to the N-terminal sequence of the purified protein. The first 24 amino acids are presumed to be a signal peptide. The expression of lac1 is regulated at the transcription level by copper and various aromatic compounds. RT-PCR analysis of gene transcription in fungal mycelia grown on rice-straw revealed that, apart from during the early stages of substrate colonization, lac1 was expressed at every stage of the mushroom developmental cycle defined in this study, although the levels of transcription varied considerably depending upon the developmental phase. Transcription of lac1 increased sharply during the latter phase of substrate colonization and reached maximum levels during the very early stages (primordium formation, pinhead stage) of fruit body morphogenesis. Gene expression then declined to approximately 20-30% of peak levels throughout the subsequent stages of sporophore development.
1471781	The rice weevil (Sitophilus oryzae) is known as a stored product pest. Occupants living in a factory used previously as a granary and known to be contaminated by the rice weevil developed rhinitis and asthma. To study the role of the potential insect allergens, extracts were prepared from whole body and a grain dust of the rice and grain weevil (Sitophilus granarius). The extracts were coupled to cyanogen bromide-activated paper disks. Skin prick tests (SPT) were performed using common inhalant allergens as well as the insect allergen preparations. In cases of a positive SPT, specific serum IgE to the insect products was measured. Histamine release studies with peripheral leukocytes (HR) and studies using immunoblot techniques were performed. Fifteen of 39 subjects living in the infested rooms demonstrated positive SPT to the extracts of insect origin. Histamine equivalent wheal size induced by the whole body extract of the rice weevil required 3-160 micrograms protein/mL. Five of 15 subjects (with positive SPTs) had elevated specific IgE-levels to the insect material. RAST-inhibition studies indicated cross allergenicity between rice and grain weevils, and also between the frass of both beetles. Five of 15 subjects were positive in the HR assay (Ag30, allergen concentration for 30% HR for the whole body extract: range, 10(-3) to 400 micrograms protein/mL, maximum release: 26% to 89%). IgE binding was detected after SDS-PAGE by immunoblot techniques at different locations: 35-38, 54, 67, 70, and > 94 kD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
14718494	Salinity is an ever-present threat to crop yields, especially in countries where irrigation is an essential aid to agriculture. Although the tolerance of saline conditions by plants is variable, crop species are generally intolerant of one-third of the concentration of salts found in seawater. Attempts to improve the salt tolerance of crops through conventional breeding programmes have met with very limited success, due to the complexity of the trait: salt tolerance is complex genetically and physiologically. Tolerance often shows the characteristics of a multigenic trait, with quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with tolerance identified in barley, citrus, rice, and tomato and with ion transport under saline conditions in barley, citrus and rice. Physiologically salt tolerance is also complex, with halophytes and less tolerant plants showing a wide range of adaptations. Attempts to enhance tolerance have involved conventional breeding programmes, the use of in vitro selection, pooling physiological traits, interspecific hybridization, using halophytes as alternative crops, the use of marker-aided selection, and the use of transgenic plants. It is surprising that, in spite of the complexity of salt tolerance, there are commonly claims in the literature that the transfer of a single or a few genes can increase the tolerance of plants to saline conditions. Evaluation of such claims reveals that, of the 68 papers produced between 1993 and early 2003, only 19 report quantitative estimates of plant growth. Of these, four papers contain quantitative data on the response of transformants and wild-type of six species without and with salinity applied in an appropriate manner. About half of all the papers report data on experiments conducted under conditions where there is little or no transpiration: such experiments may provide insights into components of tolerance, but are not grounds for claims of enhanced tolerance at the whole plant level. Whether enhanced tolerance, where properly established, is due to the chance alteration of a factor that is limiting in a complex chain or an effect on signalling remains to be elucidated. After ten years of research using transgenic plants to alter salt tolerance, the value of this approach has yet to be established in the field.
14719222
14722770	We have isolated a gene from loblolly pine, 5NG4, that is highly and specifically induced by auxin in juvenile loblolly pine shoots prior to adventitious root formation, but substantially down-regulated in physiologically mature shoots that are adventitious rooting incompetent. 5NG4 was highly auxin-induced in roots, stems and hypocotyls, organs that can form either lateral or adventitious roots following an auxin treatment, but was not induced to the same level in needles and cotyledons, organs that do not form roots. The deduced amino acid sequence shows homology to the MtN21 nodulin gene from Medicago truncatula. The expression pattern of 5NG4 and its homology to a protein from Medicago involved in a root-related process suggest a possible role for this gene in adventitious root formation. Homology searches also identified similar proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. High conservation across these evolutionarily distant species suggests essential functions in plant growth and development. A 38-member family of genes homologous to 5NG4 was identified in the A. thaliana genome. The physiological significance of this redundancy is most likely associated with functional divergence and/or expression specificity of the different family members. The exact biochemical function of the gene is still unknown, but sequence and structure predictions and 5NG4::GFP fusion protein localizations indicate it is a transmembrane protein with a possible transport function.
14724120	Introgression of crop genes into populations of wild relatives has important implications for germplasm conservation as well as for the persistence of novel transgenes in wild populations. Studies of hybrid fitness can be used to evaluate the potential for introgression to occur following episodes of interspecific hybridization. This study estimated relative fitness of interspecific hybrids through performance comparison of F(1) hybrids with their parental species, a cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) Minghui-63 and perennial common wild rice (O. rufipogon) under the cultivation conditions. Compared with their parents, the hybrids had the lowest values of seedling survival ability, pollen viability and seed production; intermediate values of seed germination, spikelet production and flag leaf areas; and the highest values of plant height, number of tillers and panicles. The hybrids performed poorly at the stage of sexual reproduction, although they had a slightly higher hybrid vigour at the vegetative growth stage and better tillering ability than their wild parent. There were no significant differences in composite fitness across the whole life-history between the hybrids and their wild parental species. Rice genes, including transgenes, might persist in wild rice populations through vegetative and sexual reproduction. Further studies are needed to examine whether the extent of gene flow from rice is sufficiently significant to influence genetic diversity in wild populations of O. rufipogon, a species that has become endangered in some regions of south-east Asia.
14724937	A rolled-leaf mutant was obtained in a T-DNA(containing bar gene and Ds element) insertion population, which consist of transgenic japonica rice Zhonghua 11 mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Through self-hybridization of three generations, one of trait-purified mutants (R1-A2) was obtained and used as parent to cross with variety Zhonghua 11. The leaves of 36 F1 plants investigated were rolled and resistant to herbicide Basta. Among 852 F2 plants, the segregation ratio of rolled leaves to normal leaves(645:207) was consistent with 3:1. All rolled-leaf plants were resistant to herbicide Basta, and all normal leaf plants were sensitive to herbicide Basta. These results showed that the trait of rolled-leaf is co-segregated with Basta resistance. The total DNA of 45 rolled-leaf plants and 30 normal leaf plants in F2 population were amplified to test the presence of T-DNA by Ds primers. The results showed that the positive band were amplified in all rolled-leaf plants, but not in every normal leaf plant. In F1B1 progenies, all plants which derived from backcross parent R1-A2 were rolled leaves; while variety Zhonghua 11 was used as backcross parent, the segregation ratio of rolled-leaf to normal leaf was consistent with 1:1. Taking these data together, it indicated that the rolled-leaf mutant was co-segregation with T-DNA and controlled by single dominant gene.
14724941	Using histochemistry and optical microscope, we examined the number and the size of amyloplasts in specialized tissues of gravitropically receptive organs-tissues such as the coleoptile and sheath of rice mutant (insensitive to gravity) and wide type (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica) (Zhonghua 11). We found there was no statistical difference between the mutant and wide type, both of which grew on earth or on the clinostat respectively. On earth, it was found that amyloplasts sedimented at the distal end of each cell of the special starch sheath tissues and re-sedimentation of amyloplasts toward the direction of gravity was almost completed in 5 minutes after inverting the seedlings. On the clinostat, amyloplasts dispersed in the starch sheath tissue. Such observations indicated that the mutation was not resulted from the starch-deficiency or starch-absence, the further research is going on.
14726273	About 400 food samples, mainly Asian foods available in Hong Kong, were tested for acrylamide by an LC-MS/MS method using [1, 2, 3-(13)C(3)]-acrylamide as surrogate. The acrylamide levels in the more commonly consumed food items in the food groups such as rice and rice products, noodles, bakery and batter-based products, were generally less than 60 microg kg(-1). Higher levels were found in the food groups such as biscuit-related products and crisps. The highest levels were detected in potato crisps (1500-1700 microg kg(-1)). Lower levels were found in rye flour-based crisps (440 microg kg(-1)), followed by corn-based (65 to 230 microg kg(-1)) and wheat flour-based crisps (61-200 microg kg(-1)), and then rice flour-based crisps (15-42 microg kg(-1)). The acrylamide formation during deep frying of a wheat flour-based product, Chinese fried fritter, was studied. Deep-frying at 170 degrees C resulted in gentle but steady rise in acrylamide content. A steep rise for frying at 210 degrees C was recorded. The moisture content of the product decreased with frying time, but the fat content increased. It is proposed that the reaction for the formation of acrylamide was initiated on the surface and then penetrated into the interior of the food matrix by heat transfer via radiation/conduction and diffusion of hot oil.
14726589	Genes for the enzymes that make plant cell wall hemicellulosic polysaccharides remain to be identified. We report here the isolation of a complementary DNA (cDNA) clone encoding one such enzyme, mannan synthase (ManS), that makes the beta-1, 4-mannan backbone of galactomannan, a hemicellulosic storage polysaccharide in guar seed endosperm walls. The soybean somatic embryos expressing ManS cDNA contained high levels of ManS activities that localized to Golgi. Phylogenetically, ManS is closest to group A of the cellulose synthase-like (Csl) sequences from Arabidopsis and rice. Our results provide the biochemical proof for the involvement of the Csl genes in beta-glycan formation in plants.
14727093	Klebsiella sp. strain ASR1 isolated from an Indonesian rice field is able to hydrolyse myo-inositol hexakis phosphate (phytate). The phytase protein was purified and characterised as a 42 kDa protein accepting phytate, NADP and sugar phosphates as substrates. The corresponding gene (phyK) was cloned from chromosomal DNA using a combined approach of protein and genome analysis, and expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant enzyme was identified as a 3-phytase yielding myo-inositol monophosphate, Ins(2)P, as the final product of enzymatic phytate hydrolysis. Based on its amino acid sequence, PhyK appears to be a member of a hitherto unknown subfamily of histidine acid phytate-degrading enzymes with the active site RHGXRXP and HD sequence motifs, and is different from other general phosphatases and phytases. Due to its ability to degrade sodium phytate to the mono phosphate ester, the phyK gene product is an interesting candidate for industrial and agricultural applications to make phytate phosphorous available for plant and animal nutrition.
14727148	A BAC library of 30,228 clones with an average insert size of 102 kb was constructed in the grass Brachypodium sylvaticum. Brachypodium has a simple genome, similar in size and repetitive DNA content to that of rice, and is more closely related than rice both to the major temperate cereals wheat and barley, and to the forage grasses. The library represents 6.6 genome equivalents, implying a 99.9% probability of recovering any specific sequence. The library was arrayed onto two high-density colony filters, which were screened with heterologous DNA probes from rice chromosome nine and from syntenous regions of wheat, barley, maize and oat. The construction of Brachypodium BAC contigs revealed that synteny between rice, wheat and Brachypodium was largely maintained over several regions of rice chromosome nine. This suggests that Brachypodium will be a useful tool in the elucidation of gene content in agronomically important cereal crops, complementing rice as a "grass genome model".
14727742	The results presented here support the hypothesis that plants of the tribe Oryzeae respond enantioselectively and homogeneously to optically active 1-alpha-methylbenzyl-3-p-tolylurea (MBTU) in root growth inhibition, in contrast to Echinochloa species. The Oryzeae plants tested in this study belong to different genera (Oryza, Leersia, Chikusichloa and Zizania), to different species (O sativa, O glaberrima, O alta, O coarctata, O latifolia, O minuta, O rufipogon), to various ecospecies of Oryza (japonica, indica, japonica x indica, javanica) and to different levels of evolution [cultivated rice (O sativa and O glaberrima) and ancestral wild rice species]. In spite of their different phylogenic status and diverse sensitivity, the root growth of all members of the genus Oryza was inhibited more by R-MBTU than by S-MBTU. Zizania palustris, Z latifolia, Leersia oryzoides and Chikusichloa aquatica belonging to the tribe Oryzeae exhibited similar chiral recognition to the Oryza plants, suggesting that Oryzeae have a common chiral recognition mechanism in their response to optically active MBTUs. In contrast, Echinochloa plants (E crus-galli (L) Beauv var crus-galli and E colonum (L) Link), belonging into subfamily Panicoideae tribe Paniceae, responded in a different way, where their root growth was more sensitive to S-MBTU than to the antipodal R-MBTU. A reverse chiral response between the tribe Oryzeae and the genus Echinochloa was clearly indicated in this study. This diverse response may be relevant to Gramineae classification.
14727771	The component of protein in rice, at 7-9% by weight, is relatively low, but the total amount of rice protein potentially available is significant because the production of rice worldwide, at 380 million tons annually, is huge. Rice proteins are recognized as nutritional, hypoallergenic, and healthy for human consumption, and rice protein products have been in demand in recent years. However, because of difficulties in the processing, rice protein products, particularly high-protein content ones, have not been readily available. Two of the main sources of rice protein, rice bran and, to a lesser extent, broken rice kernels, have been under-used and under-priced. This report provides an update on the processing of these sources for rice proteins. Methods of protein processing are highlighted including the traditional alkaline extraction, enzyme-assisted extraction, and the novel uses of physical treatment prior to water extraction. Also discussed are effects of processing on the functional and nutritional properties of rice protein.
14729218	Root development of Arabidopsis, Zea mays (maize) and Oryza sativa (rice) differs in both overall architecture and the anatomy of individual roots. In maize and rice, the post-embryonic shoot-borne root system becomes the major backbone of the root stock; in Arabidopsis, the embryonic root system formed by a simple primary root and its lateral roots remains dominant. Recently, several specific root mutants and root-specific genes have been identified and characterized in maize and rice. Interestingly, some of these mutants indicate that the formation of primary-, seminal-, crown- and lateral roots is regulated by alternative root-type-specific pathways. Further analyses of these unique pathways will contribute to the understanding of the complex molecular networks involved in cereal root formation.
14729915	In this article, we report that carpel specification in the Oryza sativa (rice) flower is regulated by the floral homeotic gene DROOPING LEAF (DL) that is distinct from the well-known ABC genes. Severe loss-of-function mutations of DL cause complete homeotic transformation of carpels into stamens. Molecular cloning reveals that DL is a member of the YABBY gene family and is closely related to the CRABS CLAW (CRC) gene of Arabidopsis thaliana. DL is expressed in the presumptive region (carpel anlagen), where carpel primordia would initiate, and in carpel primordia. These results suggest that carpel specification is regulated by DL in rice flower development. Whereas CRC plays only a partial role in carpel identity, DL may have been recruited to have the more essential function of specifying carpels during the evolution of rice. We also show that DL interacts antagonistically with class B genes and controls floral meristem determinacy. In addition, severe and weak dl alleles fail to form a midrib in the leaf. The phenotypic analysis of dl mutants, together with analyses of the spatial expression patterns and ectopic expression of DL, demonstrate that DL regulates midrib formation by promoting cell proliferation in the central region of the rice leaf.
14730064	Calcium signals mediate a multitude of plant responses to external stimuli and regulate a wide range of physiological processes. Calcium-binding proteins, like calcineurin B-like (CBL) proteins, represent important relays in plant calcium signaling. These proteins form a complex network with their target kinases being the CBL-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs). Here, we present a comparative genomics analysis of the full complement of CBLs and CIPKs in Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa). We confirm the expression and transcript composition of the 10 CBLs and 25 CIPKs encoded in the Arabidopsis genome. Our identification of 10 CBLs and 30 CIPKs from rice indicates a similar complexity of this signaling network in both species. An analysis of the genomic evolution suggests that the extant number of gene family members largely results from segmental duplications. A phylogenetic comparison of protein sequences and intron positions indicates an early diversification of separate branches within both gene families. These branches may represent proteins with different functions. Protein interaction analyses and expression studies of closely related family members suggest that even recently duplicated representatives may fulfill different functions. This work provides a basis for a defined further functional dissection of this important plant-specific signaling system.
14730075	Uptake and compartmentation of reduced glutathione (GSH), oxidized glutathione (GSSG), and glutathione conjugates are important for many functions including sulfur transport, resistance against biotic and abiotic stresses, and developmental processes. Complementation of a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant (hgt1) deficient in glutathione transport was used to characterize a glutathione transporter cDNA (OsGT1) from rice (Oryza sativa). The 2.58-kb full-length cDNA (AF393848, gi 27497095), which was obtained by screening of a cDNA library and 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends-polymerase chain reaction, contains an open reading frame encoding a 766-amino acid protein. Complementation of the hgt1 yeast mutant strain with the OsGT1 cDNA restored growth on a medium containing GSH as the sole sulfur source. The strain expressing OsGT1 mediated [3H]GSH uptake, and this uptake was significantly competed not only by unlabeled GSSG and GS conjugates but also by some amino acids and peptides, suggesting a wide substrate specificity. OsGT1 may be involved in the retrieval of GSSG, GS conjugates, and nitrogen-containing peptides from the cell wall.
14730444	Defense responses triggered by dominant and recessive disease resistance (R) genes are presumed to be regulated by different molecular mechanisms. In order to characterize the genes activated in defense responses against bacterial blight mediated by the recessive R gene xa13, two pathogen-induced subtraction cDNA libraries were constructed using the resistant rice line IRBB13--which carries xa13--and its susceptible, near-isogenic, parental line IR24. Clustering analysis of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) identified 702 unique expressed sequences as being involved in the defense responses triggered by xa13; 16% of these are new rice ESTs. These sequences define 702 genes, putatively encoding a wide range of products, including defense-responsive genes commonly involved in different host-pathogen interactions, genes that have not previously been reported to be associated with pathogen-induced defense responses, and genes (38%) with no homology to previously described functional genes. In addition, R-like genes putatively encoding nucleotide-binding site/leucine rich repeat (NBS-LRR) and LRR receptor kinase proteins were observed to be induced in the disease resistance activated by xa13. A total of 568 defense-responsive ESTs were mapped to 588 loci on the rice molecular linkage map through bioinformatic analysis. About 48% of the mapped ESTs co-localized with quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for resistance to various rice diseases, including bacterial blight, rice blast, sheath blight and yellow mottle virus. Furthermore, some defense-responsive sequences were conserved at similar locations on different chromosomes. These results reveal the complexity of xa13-mediated resistance. The information obtained in this study provides a large source of candidate genes for understanding the molecular bases of defense responses activated by recessive R genes and of quantitative disease resistance.
14730683	We have used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis with mass spectrometry analysis to study the temporal patterns of protein expression during RYMV (Rice yellow mottle virus) infection in rice cells of two cultivars: IR64, Oryza sativa indica, susceptible, and Azucena, O. sativa japonica, partially resistant to RYMV. Proteomic analysis of nonstressed and RYMV inoculated cells showed statistically significant changes in the relative levels of 40 IR64 proteins and 24 Azucena proteins. Protein identification using mass spectrometry was attempted for all the differentially regulated proteins. This global analysis detected 32 hypothetical "new" proteins. Nineteen differentially regulated proteins were identified for IR64 cultivar, while 13 were identified for Azucena cultivar, including proteins in three functional categories: metabolism, stress-related proteins, and translation. These data revealed that a number of proteins regulated by abiotic stress response pathway were activated by RYMV in both cultivars (such as salt-induced protein, heat shock proteins (HSPs), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and others have functions consistent with the susceptibility or partially resistance trait (such as dehydrin, proteins involved in glycolysis pathway).
14731253	A rice nuclear gene, Rf-1, restores the pollen fertility disturbed by the BT-type male sterile cytoplasm, and is widely used for commercial seed production of japonica hybrid varieties. Genomic fragments carrying Rf-1 were identified by conducting chromosome walking and a series of complementation tests. Isolation and analysis of cDNA clones corresponding to the fragments demonstrated that Rf-1 encodes a mitochondrially targeted protein containing 16 repeats of the 35-aa pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) motif. Sequence analysis revealed that the recessive allele, rf-1, lacks one nucleotide in the putative coding region, presumably resulting in encoding a truncated protein because of a frame shift. Rice Rf-1 is the first restorer gene isolated from cereal crops that has the property of reducing the expression of the cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS)-associated mitochondrial gene like many other restorer genes. The present findings may facilitate not only elucidating the mechanisms of male sterility by the BT cytoplasm and its restoration by Rf-1 but also isolating other restorer genes from cereal crops, especially rice.
14732236	Malaria is one of the most serious public health problems in the world. For the last few decades, numerous studies have focused on the potential links between environmental transformations (such as the expansion of irrigation) and malaria occurrence. Most of these studies have been based on relatively simple models outlining the interactions of the host-vector-parasite triad. In this paper, we investigate the links between the intensification of irrigated rice cultivation and malaria. In an attempt to complement biomedical and entomological approaches we propose a model that recognises the influence of human-vector contacts on transmission processes, but stresses the importance of taking into consideration socio-economic and cultural factors in the management of disease episodes, and how these can be affected by transformations of natural resource management strategies. Using a case study in Northern Côte d'Ivoire, we investigated the complex mechanisms by which agriculture-generated changes in ecosystems and socio-economic organisation influence disease risks and produce new scenarios in the management of disease. Our results show that the socio-economic transformation and gender repositioning induced, or facilitated, by the intensification of lowland irrigated rice cultivation influence the health care system for malaria in the study area. They lead to a reduction of the capacity of women to manage malaria episodes among children and influence their vulnerability to the disease. We argue that these elements contribute to higher malaria prevalence in villages involved in double cropping of rice annually.
14732237	Seven cross-sectional entomological surveys were carried out from September 1995 to February 1998 in three irrigated rice growing villages and three villages without irrigated agriculture in the area surrounding Niono, located 350km north-east of Bamako, Mali. The transmission pattern differed markedly between the two zones. In the irrigated zone, the transmission of malaria was fairly constant over the seasons at a low level. In the non-irrigated zone, transmission was mostly below detection level during the dry season, whereas it was high toward the end of the rainy season. In the irrigated zone, high densities of mosquitoes were correlated with low anthropophily, low sporozoite indices and probably low survival rates. In the non-irrigated zone, mosquito densities were lower and these relationships were less pronounced. Differential use of mosquito nets in the two zones may have been an important factor in the observed differences in transmission. The presence of cattle may also have played an important role. Two mosquito-catching methods (human landing catch and spray catch) were compared.
14732238	Seven repeated cross-sectional parasitological surveys, collecting a total of 13,912 blood samples, were carried out from September 1995 to February 1998 in three irrigated rice growing villages and three villages without irrigated agriculture in the area surrounding Niono, Mali. Parasite prevalence varied according to season and agricultural zone, but showed similar patterns for villages within the same zone. Overall, malaria prevalence was 47% in the villages without irrigated agriculture and 34% in the irrigated rice growing villages. In a village in the irrigated zone, and a village in the non-irrigated zone, 1067 and 608 children up to the age of 14 years, respectively, were followed in a passive malariological study for the period of 13 months. Fevers were attributed to malaria using a statistical method, taking into account the parasitaemia in afebrile controls from the cross-sectional surveys. The incidence of malaria fevers differed markedly between the two zones and over time. In the village in the irrigated zone, the incidence of malaria fevers was fairly constant over the year at 0.7 per 1000 children per day. In the village without irrigated agriculture, incidence was low during the dry season (at 0.6 per 1000 children per day), whereas it was high during the rainy season (at 3.2 per 1000 children per day). These results correspond well to the malaria transmission observed in a concurrent entomological survey. Rice cultivation in the semi-arid sub-Saharan environment altered the transmission pattern from seasonal to perennial, but reduced annual incidence more than two-fold.
14732239	An ecosystem approach was applied to study the links between malaria and agriculture in Mwea Division, Kenya. The study was organized into five phases. Phase I had two components including a stakeholder workshop conducted with community representatives and other key stakeholders, and the collation of data on common diseases from outpatient service records at the local hospital. Phase I aimed at an a priori needs-assessment in order to focus the research agenda. Workshop participants directly contributed to the selection of two villages with rice irrigation and two non-irrigated villages for detailed health studies. In Phase II, various Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) tools were used to gather more detailed qualitative information from the study villages. The qualitative results indicated that Mwea residents considered malaria and lack of clean drinking water to be their most important health problems, and this was corroborated by local hospital records. Phase III consisted of a comprehensive household survey developed with inputs from Phases I and II. Phase IV involved a comparative evaluation of entomological and parasitological aspects of malaria in the villages with and without rice irrigation. The malaria parasitological survey found an average Plasmodium falciparum parasite rate of 23.5% among children up to 9 years of age. Results of the entomological evaluation showed a 30-300-fold increase in the number of the local malaria vector, Anopheles arabiensis, in villages with rice irrigation compared to those without irrigation yet malaria prevalence was significantly lower in these villages (0-9% versus 17-54%). The most likely explanation of this 'paddies paradox' in Mwea appeared to be the tendency for A. arabiensis in irrigated villages to feed overwhelmingly on cattle. The results suggested that zooprophylaxis was potentially a practical option for long-term malaria control in the rice irrigated areas, in spite of the large number of A. arabiensis. Phase V consisted of end-of-project workshops for the dissemination of research results and participatory decision-making regarding follow-up actions. Owing to the utilization of a transdisciplinary and participatory approach to research, it was possible to identify opportunities for maintaining zooprophylaxis for malaria in Mwea, through the integration of agroecosystem practices aimed at sustaining livestock systems within a broader strategy for rural development.
14732240	Field experiments were conducted in central Kenya, to study the effect of ammonium sulphate fertiliser ((NH(4))(2)SO(4)) on mosquito larval populations in rice fields. The experiments used a complete randomised block design having four blocks with two experimental ponds per block, and the fertiliser and control treatments allocated randomly among the ponds. Student's two-sample unpaired t-test was used to test for the significance of differences between the relative counts of larvae in fertiliser and control treatments. The results showed a significant overall increase in the larval populations of An. arabiensis (P<0.01) and culicine mosquitoes (P<0.05), after ponds were treated with the fertiliser. Significantly more fourth instar larvae of An. arabiensis were collected in fertiliser than control plots (P<0.001). An. arabiensis data indicated that the first fertiliser application had the most impact, compared to the second and third applications. This was evident in a significant peak of combined first and second instar An. arabiensis larvae observed 5 days after the first fertiliser application (P<0.05). The studies suggest that ammonium sulphate fertiliser reduces turbidity of water in rice fields, thereby making them visually more attractive for egg-laying by An. arabiensis and culicine mosquitoes.
14732241	A 4-year entomological study was carried out in Southern Madagascar to identify malaria vectors, evaluate the transmission and compare the influence of irrigation in the sub-arid and adjacent humid regions. Three villages were involved in this entomological survey: Androvasoa (located in the natural sub-arid ecosystem), Pépiniére (sited at the centre of an irrigated rice scheme in the sub-arid region) and Esana (bordered with rice fields in the humid region). Mosquitoes were collected inside and outside dwellings when landing on human beings, with light traps and with knockdown indoor sprays. Anopheles arabiensis, Anopheles merus and Anopheles funestus were found in every village while Anopheles gambiae s.s. was only found in the village bordering the rice-fields (Pépiniére) and Anopheles mascarensis, a mosquito native to Madagascar, was only found in the humid region (Esana). In Pépiniére, the annual entomological inoculation rate (EIR) was low (EIR=0.4 infective bites/man/year (IBM)). In the irrigated scheme of the sub-arid region, malaria transmission was 150 times higher (mean EIR=63 IBM) than in the natural ecosystem and A. funestus was the main vector, responsible for 90% of infective bites. In Esana, the level of malaria transmission was high (EIR=41 IBM) and 2/3 of the infective bites were due to A. mascarensis, despite the presence of A. gambiae s.s. and A. funestus. These results are discussed with reference to the impact of irrigation on malaria in Africa ("the paddies paradox").
14732243	Malaria in Sri Lanka is unstable and epidemic, with large spatial and temporal differences in transmission dynamics. The disease is of great public health significance and identification of underlying risk factors is important in order to use the limited resources in a cost-effective way. The International Water Management Institute (IWMI) recently launched a project of GIS-based malaria risk mapping in Sri Lanka, to investigate whether this tool could be used for epidemic forecasting and for the planning of malaria control activities. This paper presents results for the Uda Walawe region in southern Sri Lanka, an irrigated agricultural area where malaria cases were mapped at the smallest administrative level for each month over a 10-year period. Malaria incidence rates were related to land- and water-use patterns, socio-economic features, and data on malaria control interventions in a multivariate analysis. Areas of high malaria risk were characterized by: (i) higher than average rainfall, (ii) greater forest coverage; (iii) slash and burn cultivation as a predominant agricultural activity; (iv) presence of many abandoned irrigation reservoirs; and (v) poor socio-economic status. Irrigated rice cultivation areas had a lower risk of malaria than non-irrigated areas. This difference could be due to socio-economic factors related to irrigation development and/or transmission dynamics related to vector density or species composition. Our findings call for malaria control strategies that are readily adapted to different ecological and epidemiological settings. Malaria risk maps are a convenient tool for discussing targeted and cost-effective interventions with disease control personnel.
14732245	Malaria appears to have been all but eradicated from certain areas of Sichuan Province mainly as a consequence of draining a sufficient proportion of rice paddy fields. The two main malaria vectors, both members of the Anopheles hyrcanus group, breed prolifically in rice paddy fields, which farmers have traditionally kept flooded all year round to ensure an adequate water supply. Over the last three decades, the irrigation network has been gradually extended, thus ensuring water security and increasing the area of arable land that could be farmed by intermittent wet/dry irrigation (IWDI). In addition, rice fields that had been left flooded but fallow throughout the winter are now under an annual cycle of wet crop/dry crop rotation (WDCR) to maximise productivity. Accordingly, vector breeding has been greatly reduced. It would appear that vector populations have now fallen below the level required to sustain malaria transmission.
14732870	OsEBP-89 gene encodes an ethylene responsive element binding protein (EREBP) transcription factor from rice (Oryza sativa). Northern blot analysis revealed that OsEBP-89 was expressed in root, stem, seeds, flowers and leaves of rice. Histochemical assay showed that GUS expressed mainly in phloem of vascular tissues of the root and stem transition region (RST), basal part of sheath roots, stem node and basal part of adventitious roots, also in endosperm of seeds in transgenic rice harboring OsEBP-89/GUS construct (pNSG). A sequence of region from C279 to C97 was found to play an important role for OsEBP-89 genes expression though promoter deletion assay. The possible function of OsEBP-89 gene was discussed.
14733007	Soil organic carbon is the main part of terrestrial carbon reservoir and important part of soil fertility. The spatial distribution and reserves of soil organic carbon are very important for studying soil carbon cycle. According to the data from the second soil survey, soil organic carbon reserves was estimated and its spatial distribution was analysed by using GIS technique. The results showed that the total amount of soil organic carbon is about 17.52 x 10(8) t. The carbon density of laterite, lateritic red soil and red soil in Guangdong Province is 8.83, 10.31, 9.15 kg.m-2, respectively; lower than the mean carbon density of China. The carbon density of yellow soil and rice soil is 12.08, 12.17 kg.m-2, respectively; higher than the mean carbon density of China. Soil carbon density is about 10.44 kg.m-2 in Guangdong. The spatial distribution characteristic of soil organic carbon density in Guangdong is that the carbon density in south Guangdong Province is higher than that in north Guangdong Province, in that soil organic carbon density in north and middle Guangdong Province is 5-10 kg.m-2 and in east Guangdong Province is 10-15 kg.m-2. Soil organic carbon density mostly vary among 5-15 kg.m-2.
14733017	With the profile meteorological data collected from the farmland micro-meteorological experimental substation, Experiment Station of Red Earth Ecology, Yingtan, Jiangxi, Chinese Academy of Sciences during rapeseed/rice rotation from Nov. 1998 to Oct. 1999, the surface layer turbulence characteristic parameters (u*, theta*, L) and the atmospheric SO2 dry deposition velocities (Vd) were calculated. The results indicated that the hourly mean Vd of SO2 dry deposition was ranged from 0.124 to 0.897 cm.s-1 (mean +/- SE = 0.507 +/- 0.167 cm.s-1), and its regular dynamic pattern was as follows: it was always higher at daytime than at night, and the mean Vd of SO2 dry deposition during March-August(0.611 cm.s-1) was obviously greater than that during Sept.-Dec. and Jan.-Feb. (0.401 cm.s-1). The mean Vd of SO2 dry deposition during various crop growth stages was decreased as the order of rice (0.605 +/- 0.093 cm.s-1) > rapeseed (0.491 +/- 0.166 cm.s-1) > follow (0.342 +/- 0.174 cm.s-1).
14733524	To determine the antioxidant effects of rice hull extract exposed to far-infrared radiation, the added extracts were compared with sesamol in cooked turkey breast. Rice hull extract showed antioxidant properties in cooked turkey breast by reducing lipid oxidation and volatile aldehydes. Far-infrared radiation increased significantly the antioxidant activities of rice hull extracts. Rice hull extract irradiated by far-infrared (FRH) had lower TBARS values and fewer volatile aldehydes (hexanal, pentanal, and propanal) than a non-irradiated extract (IRH) during the 3 days of aerobic storage. Addition of FRH at 0.2% (w/w) in turkey meat could reduce the amounts of volatile hexanal to 18-47% of the control during the storage. However, the antioxidant activities of rice hull extracts did not last as long as those of pure sesamol due to the relatively low concentration of phenolics, and the extracts had some peculiar odor. Addition of rice hull extracts also increased both a and b values of the samples due to its brown intensity.
14733924	We report here the existence of interactions between a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, Rad6, from rice, Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare (OsRad6), and Sgt1 (OsSgt1), a novel subunit of the SCF ubiquitin ligase complex. Rad6 is not only related to post-replicational repair but also to the proteasome system, while Sgt1 has a function in kinetochore assembly. The relationship between the two is unexpected, but of great interest. The open reading frames of OsRad6 and OsSgt1 encode predicted products of 152 and 367 amino acid residues, respectively, with molecular weights of 17.3 and 40.9kDa. Two-hybrid and pull-down analyses indicated that OsRad6 binds to OsSgt1, and transcripts of both OsRad6 and OsSgt1 were found to be strongly expressed only in the proliferating tissues such as the shoot apical meristem, suggesting that their expression is cell cycle-dependent. The amount of the Rad6 mRNA in cultured cells increased rapidly after division was halted, and mRNA levels of Rad6 and Sgt1 were induced by UV- and DNA-damaging agents such as MMS or H(2)O(2). The Rad6 pathway for repair or the proteasome system may thus require Sgt1 as ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme.
14734305	The high content of repetitive sequences in the genomes of many higher eukaryotes renders the task of annotating them computationally intensive. Presently, the only widely accepted method of searching and annotating transposable elements (TEs) in large genomic sequences is the use of the RepeatMasker program, which identifies new copies of TEs by pairwise sequence comparisons with a library of known TEs. Profile hidden Markov models (HMMs) have been used successfully in discovering distant homologs of known proteins in large protein databases, but this approach has only rarely been applied to known model TE families in genomic DNA. We used a combination of computational approaches to annotate the TEs in the finished genome of Oryza sativa ssp. japonica. In this paper, we discuss the strengths and the weaknesses of the annotation methods used. These approaches included: the default configuration of RepeatMasker using cross_match, an implementation of the Smith-Waterman-Gotoh algorithm; RepeatMasker using WU-BLAST for similarity searching; and the HMMER package, used to search for TEs with profile HMMs. All the results were converted into GFF format and post-processed using a set of Perl scripts. RepeatMasker was used in the case of most TE families. The WU-BLAST implementation of RepeatMasker was found to be manifold faster than cross_match with only a slight loss in sensitivity and was thus used to obtain the final set of data. HMMER was used in the annotation of the Mutator-like element (MULE) superfamily and the miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE) polyphyletic group of families, for which large libraries of elements were available and which could be divided into well-defined families. The HMMER search algorithm was extremely slow for models over 1000 bp in length, so MULE families with members over 1000 bp long were processed with RepeatMasker instead. The main disadvantage of HMMER in this application is that, since it was developed with protein sequences in mind, it does not search the negative DNA strand. With the exception of TE families with essentially palindromic sequences, reverse complement models had to be created and run to compensate for this shortcoming. We conclude that a modification of RepeatMasker to incorporate libraries of profile HMMs in searches could improve the ability to detect degenerated copies of TEs. The Perl scripts and TE sequences used in construction of the RepeatMasker library and the profile HMMs are available upon request.
14734308	Whole genome duplications have played a major role in determining the structure of eukaryotic genomes. Current evidence revealing large blocks of duplicated chromatin yields new insights into the evolutionary history of species, but also presents a major challenge for researchers attempting to utilize comparative genomics techniques. Understanding the timing of duplication events relative to divergence among taxa is critical to accurate and comprehensive cross-species comparisons. We describe a large-scale approach to estimate the timing of duplication events in a phylogenetic context. The methodology has been previously utilized for analysis of Arabidopsis and Saccharomyces duplication events. This new implementation provides a more flexible and reusable framework for these analyses. Scripts written in the Python programming language drive a number of freely available bioinformatics programs, creating a no-cost tool for researchers. The usefulness of the approach is demonstrated through genome-scale analysis of Arabidopsis and Oryza (rice) duplications. Software and documentation are freely available from http://plantgenome.agtec.uga.edu/bioinformatics/dating/
14734877	The authors compared the safety and efficacy of a ready-to-use, premixed, rice-based oral rehydration solution (R-ORS) with a glucose-based oral rehydration solution (G-ORS), each containing 75 mmol/L sodium, in Mexican children with acute diarrhea for less than 5 days. One hundred eighty-nine boys 3 to 24 months old admitted to the hospital with acute diarrhea and signs of dehydration were randomly assigned to receive either G-ORS or R-ORS. Intake and output were measured every 3 hours. In the group treated with R-ORS, significantly fewer patients required supplemental intravenous fluids during the rehydration phase compared to the G-ORS group (1% v 8.7%; P < 0.01). Mean stool output, percent weight gain, ORS intake, urine output, and number of patients who vomited during rehydration were similar in the two groups. The mean total stool output after the first 24 hours of maintenance phase was significantly lower in the R-ORS group than in the G-ORS group. The authors found rice-based ORS to be safe, and its use reduced the rate of intravenous fluid therapy in comparison with the use of a glucose-based ORS.
14736100	This study describes the nutrient intake and food sources of select vitamins and minerals for children on Guam. Food records (n = 954) from public school students aged nine to twelve of all regions on Guam were analyzed for nutrient content and compared to Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDA). Individual foods were condensed into 194 food aggregates and food lists representing 84% to 91% of the major vitamins and minerals in the diet of the children were developed by frequency analysis. Median intake of calcium, vitamin E, folate were less than 50% of the Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) and mean intake of these nutrients was 60% RDA or less. Mean and median vitamin A intake was 107% and 76% RDA, respectively. Both mean and median intake of Vitamin C, iron and zinc were present at levels above 100% RDA. Rice, meat, fruit drink from powder, milk, and fortified cereals are foods that provide substantial contributions to the vitamin and mineral content of the diets. Traditional, nutrient dense foods, such as fish, yams, papaya, and mango had minor contributions because of low frequently of consumption. Information from this study can be used to develop specific diet assessment instruments and culturally appropriate nutrition education.
1473911	To assess the true physiological basis of carbohydrate exchange of food, commonly eaten in South India, the "Glycemic Index", defined as the area of the glucose tolerance test, under 3 hr, for each food item, expressed as percentage of the area after taking the same amount of carbohydrate as glucose (75 gms) was studied, in healthy fasting human volunteers. Thirteen articles of food items were fed to groups of 12 to 15 healthy fasting volunteers and their glucose tolerance test values up to 3 hr, were measured. The highest glycemic index values were shown by starchy tubers, Raggi and fleshy fruits, while relatively lower values were obtained for pulses and rice; whole wheat showed the smallest glycemic index.
14739217	Patients with relapsed or primary refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) who achieve complete response (CR) before autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) generally have better outcomes than those who achieve only partial response (PR). We investigated whether adding rituximab to the ifosfamide-carboplatin-etoposide (ICE) chemotherapy regimen (RICE) could increase the CR rate of patients with DLBCL under consideration for ASCT. Thirty-six eligible patients were treated with RICE, and 34 received all 3 planned cycles. The CR rate was 53%, significantly better than the 27% CR rate (P =.01) achieved among 147 similar consecutive historical control patients with DLBCL treated with ICE; the PR rate was 25%. Febrile neutropenia was the most frequent grade 3 or 4 nonhematologic toxicity; it occurred in 7.5% of delivered cycles. No patient had RICE-related toxicity that precluded ASCT. The median number of CD34(+) cells per kilogram mobilized was 6.3 x 10(6). Progression-free survival rates of patients who underwent transplantation after RICE were marginally better than those of 95 consecutive historical control patients who underwent transplantation after ICE (54% vs 43% at 2 years; P =.25). RICE appears to induce very high CR rates in patients with relapsed and refractory DLBCL; however, further studies are necessary to determine whether this treatment regimen will improve outcomes after ASCT.
14739261	Over three billion people are currently micronutrient (i.e. micronutrient elements and vitamins) malnourished, resulting in egregious societal costs including learning disabilities among children, increased morbidity and mortality rates, lower worker productivity, and high healthcare costs, all factors diminishing human potential, felicity, and national economic development. Nutritional deficiencies (e.g. iron, zinc, vitamin A) account for almost two-thirds of the childhood death worldwide. Most of those afflicted are dependent on staple crops for their sustenance. Importantly, these crops can be enriched (i.e. 'biofortified') with micronutrients using plant breeding and/or transgenic strategies, because micronutrient enrichment traits exist within their genomes that can to used for substantially increasing micronutrient levels in these foods without negatively impacting crop productivity. Furthermore, 'proof of concept' studies have been published using transgenic approaches to biofortify staple crops (e.g. high beta-carotene 'golden rice' grain, high ferritin-Fe rice grain, etc). In addition, micronutrient element enrichment of seeds can increase crop yields when sowed to micronutrient-poor soils, assuring their adoption by farmers. Bioavailability issues must be addressed when employing plant breeding and/or transgenic approaches to reduce micronutrient malnutrition. Enhancing substances (e.g. ascorbic acid, S-containing amino acids, etc) that promote micronutrient bioavailability or decreasing antinutrient substances (e.g. phytate, polyphenolics, etc) that inhibit micronutrient bioavailability, are both options that could be pursued, but the latter approach should be used with caution. The world's agricultural community should adopt plant breeding and other genetic technologies to improve human health, and the world's nutrition and health communities should support these efforts. Sustainable solutions to this enormous global problem of 'hidden hunger' will not come without employing agricultural approaches.
14739266	The relative contribution of the apoplastic and cell-to-cell paths to the overall hydraulic conductivity of the outer part of rice roots (LpOPR) was estimated using a pressure perfusion technique for 30-d-old rice plants (lowland cultivar, IR64, and upland cultivar, Azucena). The technique was based on the perfusion of aerenchyma of root segments from two different zones (20-50 mm and 50-100 mm from the root apex) with aerated nutrient solution using precise pump rates. The outer part of roots (OPR) comprised an outermost rhizodermis, an exodermis, sclerenchyma fibre cells, and the innermost unmodified cortical cell layer. No root anatomical differences were observed for the two cultivars used. Development of apoplastic barriers such as Casparian bands and suberin lamellae in the exodermis were highly variable. On average, matured apoplastic barriers were observed at around 50-70 mm from the root apex. Lignification of the exodermis was completed earlier than that of sclerenchyma cells. Radial water flow across the OPR was impeded either by partially blocking off the porous apoplast with China ink particles (diameter 50 nm) or by closing water channels (aquaporins) in cell membranes with 50 micro M HgCl2. The reduction of LpOPR was relatively larger in the presence of an apoplastic blockage with ink (approximately 30%) than in the presence of the water channel blocker (approximately 10%) suggesting a relatively larger apoplastic water flow. The reflection coefficient of the OPR (sigmasOPR) for mannitol significantly increased during both treatments. It was larger when pores of the apoplast were closed, but absolute values were low (overall range of sigmasOPR=0.1-0.4), which also suggested a large contribution of the non-selective, apoplastic path to overall water flow. The strongest evidence in favour of a predominantly apoplastic water transport came from the comparison between diffusional (PdOPR, measured with heavy water, HDO) and osmotic water permeability (PfOPR) or hydraulic conductivity (LpOPR). PfOPR was larger by a factor of 600-1400 compared with P(dOPR). The development of OPR along roots resulted in a decrease of PdOPR by a factor of three (segments taken at 20-50 and 50-100 mm from root apex, respectively). Heat-killing of living cells resulted in an increase of PdOPR for both immature (20-50 mm) and mature (50-100 mm) root segments by a factor of two. Even though both pathways (apoplast and cell-to-cell) contributed to the overall water flow, the findings indicate predominantly apoplastic water flow across the OPR, even in the presence of apoplastic barriers. Low diffusional water permeabilities may suggest a low rate of oxygen diffusion across the OPR from aerenchyma to the outer anaerobic soil medium (low PO2OPR). To date, there are no data on PO2OPR. Provisional data of radial oxygen losses (ROL) across the OPR suggest that, unlike water, rice roots efficiently retain oxygen within the aerenchyma. This ability strongly increases as roots/OPR develop.
14739343	We identified a new locus responsible for increased pushing resistance of the lower part of rice (Oryza sativa) and analyzed its physiological function to understand how to improve lodging resistance in rice. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) controlling pushing resistance of the lower part were analyzed in a population of backcross inbred lines of japonica Nipponbare x indica Kasalath plants cut out at 40 cm to exclude the effect of the weight of the upper parts. Five QTLs for pushing resistance were detected; only one QTL from Kasalath on chromosome 5 (prl5) had a positive effect. The likelihood odds ratio curve of prl5 echoed that for lodging resistance by typhoon. We selected three near-isogenic lines (NILs) in which the chromosomal region of prl5 was substituted with that of Kasalath in the Nipponbare background. The dry weights and densities and the contents of accumulated carbohydrate in stems below 40 cm (lower stems) in each NIL were significantly higher than those of Nipponbare. There was no difference between Nipponbare and the NILs in yield, root characteristics, or the weights of the upper parts. Pushing resistance of the lower part and lodging resistance in the NILs were up to twice as high as in Nipponbare. These results suggest that prl5 might affect the characteristics of the lower stems of the NILs, thus increasing lodging resistance.
14739365	In neonatal rats, neutrophils do not accumulate in ischemic brain parenchyma to the extent that they do in adult rodents. They are also confined to the intravascular compartment during the first few hours of recovery. However, neonatal rats rendered neutropenic have less brain swelling after a hypoxic-ischemic (HI) insult. In this study, we used the Rice-Vannucci model of HI brain injury in 7-d-old rats, and we depleted neutrophils before injury in one group and 4-8 h after injury in another group to determine 1) whether neutrophils contribute to cerebral atrophy, 2) whether neutropenia induced within 8 h after recovery from HI is neuroprotective, and 3) whether neutropenia preserved energy metabolites during the HI insult. Brain energy metabolites were measured at 0 h and 6 h of recovery. Brain atrophy was measured morphometrically on brain slices at 2 wk of recovery. In 67 rats, we found that neutropenia induced before the HI insult, but not after HI, reduced brain swelling at 42 h of recovery by about 75% (p < 0.001). In another 60 rats, we found that cerebral atrophy was reduced by 61% provided that neutropenia was induced before HI (p < 0.05). Total adenine nucleotides were better preserved in the neutropenic rats at the end of the HI insult (0 h recovery); p < 0.05. We conclude that neutrophils do contribute to vascular dysfunction either during the HI insult or early hours (<4-8 h) of recovery. Antineutrophil strategies initiated after this time are unlikely to be protective in the neonatal rat.
14740212	Three starch synthase (SS) genes, OsSSII-1, OsSSII-2 and OsSSII-3, were identified in rice (Oryza sativa L.) and localized to chromosomes 10, 2 and 6, respectively. The three OsSSII full-length cDNAs were cloned, and the predicted amino acid sequences were found to share 52-73% similarity with other members of the plant SSII family. The SS activity of each OsSSII was confirmed by expression and enzyme activity assay in Escherichia coli. Expression profile analysis revealed that OsSSII-1 was expressed in endosperms, leaves and roots; OsSSII-2 was mainly expressed in leaves, while OsSSII-3 was mainly expressed in endosperms. Similar to the OsSSI proteins, the OsSSII-2 and OsSSII-3 proteins were found in the soluble as well as the starch-granule-bound fractions in rice. The roles of the OsSSII proteins in starch biosynthesis in rice and the evolutionary relationships of the genes encoding monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous class-II SS enzymes are discussed.
14740255	The use of DNA sequence-based comparative genomics for evolutionary studies and for transferring information from model species to related large-genome species has revolutionized molecular genetics and breeding strategies for improving those crops. Comparative sequence analysis methods can be used to cross-reference genes between species maps, enhance the resolution of comparative maps, study patterns of gene evolution, identify conserved regions of the genomes, and facilitate interspecies gene cloning. In this study, 5,780 Triticeae ESTs that have been physically mapped using wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) deletion lines and segregating populations were compared using NCBI BLASTN to the first draft of the public rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome sequence data from 3,280 ordered BAC/PAC clones. A rice genome view of the homoeologous wheat genome locations based on sequence analysis shows general similarity to the previously published comparative maps based on Southern analysis of RFLP. For most rice chromosomes there is a preponderance of wheat genes from one or two wheat chromosomes. The physical locations of non-conserved regions were not consistent across rice chromosomes. Some wheat ESTs with multiple wheat genome locations are associated with the non-conserved regions of similarity between rice and wheat. The inverse view, showing the relationship between the wheat deletion map and rice genomic sequence, revealed the breakdown of gene content and order at the resolution conferred by the physical chromosome deletions in the wheat genome. An average of 35% of the putative single copy genes that were mapped to the most conserved bins matched rice chromosomes other than the one that was most similar. This suggests that there has been an abundance of rearrangements, insertions, deletions, and duplications eroding the wheat-rice genome relationship that may complicate the use of rice as a model for cross-species transfer of information in non-conserved regions.
14743861	There is growing interest regarding the joint effects of elevated levels of surface ultraviolet B (UV-B) radiation, carbon dioxide (CO2) and ozone (O3) on plants. Our current knowledge of this subject is too limited to draw any specific conclusions, although one might state that such effects are likely to be highly species dependent and may be more than additive, additive or less than additive. There are a number of uncertainties associated with the experimental protocols used and the conclusions reached in many studies. Nevertheless, in North America, there appear to be genotypes of three monocot crop species (Avena sativa L., Oryza sativa L. and Sorghum vulgare L.); six dicot crops (Cucumis sativus L., Lactuca sativa L., Lycopersicon esculentum Mill., Phaseolus vulgaris L., Pisum sativum L. and Solanum tuberosum L.) and two conifer species (Pinus ponderosa Dougl. and Pinus taeda L.) that may be considered sensitive to the joint effects of elevated levels of UV-B, CO2 and O3. However, to provide a more reliable assessment or validation of the predictions, future research must consider the concept of plant response surfaces and describe them more fully in numerical terms. Achieving that objective will require close cooperation among a number of scientists representing geographic locations with known spatial and temporal differences in UV-B, CO2 and O3 to conduct experiments under their site-specific conditions, using common plant materials and experimental protocols.
14744021	To isolate high molecular weight (HMW) or low-abundance proteins we exploited the high resolving power provided by the molecular sieves of polyacrylamide gel matrices. Rice-leaf protein extracts were applied to a single well of an SDS-polyacrylamide gel with prestained molecular size markers at both ends. After electrophoresis, the gel was cut into 4 segments according to size, and each segment was ground in extraction buffer. The eluted proteins were separated from the gel matrix by centrifugation followed by acetone precipitation, and the precipitated proteins were subjected to SDS-PAGE and 2-DE. The SDS-PAGE-based prefractionation method provided non-overlapping discrete sample pools. About 27% more protein spots were detected in the fractionated samples than in the unfractionated samples, and 17% were enhanced. The improvement was especially prominent in the case of HMW proteins. Well-separated HMW proteins were analyzed by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. The molecular masses of the identified proteins in the > 48 kDa gel segment were distributed between 50 and 112 kDa, thus validating this prefractionation method. Identified HMW proteins with similar mass but different pI were mostly isoforms. Thus SDS-PAGE-based size prefractionation provides improved separation and detection of HMW proteins.
14744489	Nonirritant bioadhesive drug release systems based on starch-acrylic acid graft copolymers prepared by radiation of starch and acrylic acid mixtures with (60)Co were developed for buccal application. The release rate of theophylline (TPL), used as a model drug, depended on the ratio of starch to acrylic acid and on the presence of cations in the graft copolymers, but was practically not affected by the pH (between pH 3 and 7) of the dissolution medium nor by the type of starch used (corn, rice, or potato). Possible release mechanisms are discussed for specific conditions. In general, the release behavior of the graft copolymers was found to be non-Fickian, n value being between 0.6 and 0.96, suggesting that the release was controlled by a combination of tablet erosion and the diffusion of the drug from the swollen matrix. Incorporation of divalent cations into the graft copolymers led to a significant decrease in swelling erosion of the tablets as well as a substantial retardation of drug release. Highest work of adhesion was obtained with graft copolymers containing calcium ions as well as longer time of adhesion on dogs' gingiva.
14744682	A survey for aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) was conducted on 88 food-grade rice samples randomly collected during July and August 2002 in Seoul, Korea. The presence of AFB(1) was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and the positive samples from enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were confirmed using high-performance liquid chromatography. Besides this, from the surveying data from the literature published since 1997, the intake of AFB(1) from food in Korea was calculated and compared with the provisional maximum tolerable daily intakes. Naturally occurring AFB(1) was found in 5/88 (6%) samples of rice with an average of 4.8 ng g(-1). A calculated probable daily intake of AFB(1) for Koreans fell into the range 1.19-5.79 ng kg(-1) bw day(-1), hence exceeding the estimated provisional maximum tolerable daily intakes. In conclusion, the exposure of Koreans to AFB(1) could bring about health concerns. This is the first report discovering that rice is the major contributor to the dietary intake of AFB(1) in Korea.
14744736	Ecological studies implicate a "Western" diet in prostate cancer development, but whether dietary patterns measured in individuals are associated with risk has not been studied previously. We examined this issue using prospective data from the nationally representative United States Health Examination Epidemiological Follow-up Study. Among 3,779 men followed from 1982-84 to 1992, 136 incident cases were identified. Using principal component analysis on responses to a 105-item dietary questionnaire, the following three distinct patterns were identified: a vegetable-fruit pattern; a red meat-starch pattern characterized by red meats, potatoes, cheese, salty snacks, and desserts; and a Southern pattern characterized by such foods as cornbread, grits, sweet potatoes, okra, beans, and rice. In adjusted proportional hazards models, prostate cancer risk was not associated with the vegetable-fruit or red meat-starch pattern, but higher intake of the Southern pattern showed a reduction in risk (3rd versus 1st tertile relative risk, 0.6; 95% confidence interval, 0.4-1.1; trend P = 0.08) that approached statistical significance. The inverse association was observed in black and non-black men and was not attributable to intake of any individual foods or nutrients. A Southern dietary pattern may reflect a history of living in the South and serve as an integrative marker of sunlight exposure and protection through 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D production. Further evaluation and better characterization of the pattern would offer more information on potentially beneficial features of the diet or its associated lifestyle.
14745172	We isolated and identified 10 alpha-amylase isoforms by using beta-cyclodextrin Sepharose affinity column chromatography and two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis from germinating rice (Oryza sativa L.) seeds. Immunoblots with anti-alpha-amylase I-1 and II-4 antibodies indicated that 8 isoforms in 10 are distinguishable from alpha-amylase I-1 and II-4. Peptide mass fingerprinting analysis showed that there exist novel isoforms encoded by RAmy3B and RAmy3C genes. The optimum temperature for enzyme reaction of the RAmy3B and RAmy3C coding isoforms resembled that of alpha-amylase isoform II-4 (RAmy3D). Furthermore, complex protein polymorphism resulted from a single alpha-amylase gene was found to occur not only in RAmy3D, but also in RAmy3B.
14745195	A mixture of steamed soybean and boiled rice with seeded Aspergillus oryzae was naturally fermented without addition of yeasts or Lactobacilli, and kept matured for 12 months at room temperature. Chemical analysis of this rice-koji miso sample for lipid changes during maturation showed that triacylglycerol was gradually decomposed into free fatty acid, with distinct formation of fatty acid ethyl ester which, six months after the start of fermentation, came to account for 35.0% of total lipid. The ester was constituted primarily with linoleic acid (ca. 50%) and oleic acid (ca. 20%), no appreciable change in this proportion being observed during maturation. Also, the proportion was unique in that this did not reflect the fatty acid composition in a mixture of the two materials. It is possible to monitor the maturation of the rice-koji miso by following up the increase with time in fatty acid ethyl ester.
14746913	Rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. indica) cDNA for the gene OsiBBC1, encoding homologue of the breast basic conserved protein 1 (BBC1), similar to ribosomal protein L13, has been identified and characterized. OsiBBC1 codes for a 24 kDa highly basic protein with two potential bipartite nuclear localization signals (NLS) and a transcriptional activation domain (TAD). The structural part of the gene is interrupted by four introns. The OsiBBC1 gene is represented by two copies in the rice genome and both of them are expressed. Northern analysis showed that OsiBBC1 is expressed more in the young root, post-fertilized influorescence, leaf base and callus tissue, which are comprised of actively dividing cells, indicating its role in cell division. The OsiBBC1 transcript accumulated more in the root of light-grown seedlings as compared to the shoot while its levels were higher in the shoot as compared to root of the etiolated seedlings, indicating its down-regulation by light. The western analysis, carried out using antibodies raised against a recombinant fusion protein, 6xHis-OsiBBC1, corroborated its tissue-specific expression profile observed by northern analysis. In addition, OsiBBC1/RPL13 protein could be targetted to the nucleus by particle bombardment of OsiBBC1::GUS fusion construct in the onion epidermal cells.
14747684	A protein-engineered rice cystatin (OcIDeltaD86) provides transgenic, partial crop resistance to plant nematodes. This study determined whether its oral uptake has adverse effects on male Sprague-Dawley rats when they are administered by oral gavage 0.1-10 mg OcIDeltaD86/kg body weight daily for 28 d. Body weight and water and food intakes were unaltered for most of the study. The only significant changes in fresh weight of nine organs were for the liver (4% decrease; P < 0.05) and the empty cecum (14% increase; P < 0.05) at the two lowest doses and the highest dose of OcIDeltaD86, respectively. No abnormalities in either organ were detected by histochemistry. There were no changes in the urine or in hematological variables measured, and blood serum revealed no dose-dependent responses for any of 17 variables measured. OcIDeltaD86 was degraded by boiling with a 50% loss of its inhibition of papain after 9.2 +/- 8.0 min. It also showed >95% loss of such inhibition after 15 s in simulated gastric fluid. The results suggest that the no effect level (NOEL) for OcIDeltaD86 is >10 mg/(kg. d). This provides a range of dietary exposure >200-2000 fold depending upon the promoter used to control its expression in potato.
14748264	The aim of this study was to compare the different methods for the identification of Candida strains isolated from clinical specimens. The methods of germ tube examination, chlamydospore examination formed on the rice Tween-80 (RT-80) agar and evaluation of colony morphologies on the two chromogenic agars (CHROMagar Candida, Albicans ID), were compared with a reference API 20C AUX (bioMerieux, France) automated system based on the carbohydrate assimilation, for the identification of a total 255 Candida isolates. Of them, 173 (67.8%) were identified as C. albicans, 37 (14.5%) were C. glabrata, 23 (9%) were C. krusei, 9 (3.5%) were C. tropicalis, 9 (3.5%) were C. kefyr, 2 (0.8%) were C. guillermondii and 2 (0.8%) were C. parapsilosis, by API 20C AUX system. In the view of these results, 146 (84.4%) of C. albicans strains were identified by germ tube examination, 161 (93.1%) of C. albicans strains and 208 (81.5%) of total strains were identified by chlamydospore examination. 169 (97.7%) of C. albicans strains and 231 (90.6%) of total strains were identified by CHROMagar Candida method, and 168 (97.1%) of C. albicans strains were identified by Albicans ID method, correctly. In the CHROMagar Candida medium, 169 C. albicans isolates have produced bright green colored colonies, whereas 33 (89.2%) isolates which produced dark pink/purple colored colonies were identified as C. glabrata, 7 (77.8%) isolates which produced metalical blue colored colonies were identified as C. tropicalis and 22 (95.6%) isolates which produced pale pink colored colonies were identified as C. krusei. In the Albicans ID medium, four of the 172 isolates which were evaluated as C. albicans initially by producing blue colored colonies, have been identified as C. tropicalis by API 20C AUX system. The sensitivities and specificities of germ tube examination, RT-80, CHROMagar Candida and Albicans ID methods were found as follows, respectively; 84.4% and 100%, 93.1% and 100%, 97.7% and 100%, 99.4% and 95.3 percent. In conclusion, CHROMagar Candida medium seems the most favorable rapid and practical method with high sensitivity and specificity for the identification of Candida species, but its cost-effectiveness should be kept in view.
14748648	Standardized rating scales represent the most reliable method of identifying socioemotional behavioral problems in children with SLI. However, limited information exists on the situational specificity or stability of rating scales applied to this population. In Redmond and Rice (1998), we presented evidence of limited reliability and stability between ratings collected from teachers and parents during kindergarten and first grade. In this research report, we provide additional data on the same group of children over the early elementary period (kindergarten-second grade). The results indicate diminishment in teacher-reported behavior problems in most areas of socioemotional development from kindergarten to second grade and increasing congruence between teacher and parent ratings.
14750518	Yeast two-hybrid assays were used to identify rice proteins interacting with two rice cyclins and other proteins potentially involved in cell cycling. The DNA sequences encoding 119 protein fragments identified were then compared by BLAST against proteins in GenBank. The proteins found include myosin-like proteins, transcription factors, kinesins, centromere proteins and undefined proteins. Based on interactions with cyclins and other elements required for cycling, we believe the undefined proteins may be involved in associated cycling processes. The identification of proteins involved in cell cycle regulation in rice may allow for the control of agronomic traits involving plant growth or development.
14750522	Methylation of plant promoters is often associated with transcriptional gene silencing, while methylation of the transcribed region is associated with post-transcriptional gene silencing. Promoter complexes that include the first untranslated exon and intron, such as maize ubiquitin1 and rice actin1, have been widely used in monocot transformation because they support higher levels of transient transgene expression than the core promoter does. However, persistent problems with transgene silencing driven by these promoter complexes brought up a troubling question: were higher initial levels of transgene expression at the expense of long-term expression stability? Here we report that methylation of an untranslated exon and intron in the promoter complex is correlated with transcriptional transgene silencing in barley. Two sibling sublines, designated T(3)30 and T(3)31, were identified in a homozygous T3 population from a single transgenic parental line. In the T6 generation, all progeny of one subline, T(3)30, expressed ubiquitin-driven bar and uidA, but both transgenes were transcriptionally silenced in the other subline, T(3)31. Although the structure of the transgene locus is complex, no differences in the physical structure or location of the locus were detected between the two sublines. Transcriptional transgene silencing in T(3)31 correlated with two molecular events: methylation of the first untranslated exon and 5' end of the intron of the promoter complex, and condensation of the chromatin in regions containing transgenes. Passage of the non-silenced subline through in vitro culture recreated the silenced phenotype of T(3)31 and the molecular events leading to its silencing.
14750524	We have isolated a cDNA clone, OsFOR1, from the immature panicles of rice. The OsFOR1 (Oryza sativa floral organ regulator 1) gene encodes a protein that contains a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain. This domain comprises 10 tandem repeats of a canonical 24-amino acid LRR sequence. The structure and the number of LRRs for OsFOR1 are similar to those of polygalacturonase-inhibiting proteins (PGIPs) from various other plant species. Moreover, the OsFOR1 recombinant protein, when fused to maltose-binding protein (MBP), shows PGIP activity against the Aspergillus niger polygalacturonase. OsFOR1 is highly expressed in the calli and immature and mature panicles, while detectable at only low levels in seedling roots and mature stems. In situ hybridization experiments showed the transcripts of OsFOR1 are present in young spikelet primordia and in almost all of the young floral organs. Transgenic approaches were used to study in vivo functioning. Antisense expression of OsFOR1 resulted in an increase in the numbers of floral organs, including the stamen, carpel, palea/lemma, stigma, and lodicule. OsFOR1 transcript was not detected in the frizzy panicle mutant, which is defective in its spikelet formation but normal in inflorescence-meristem initiation and maintenance. Therefore, we suggest that OsFOR1 plays a role in the formation and/or maintenance of floral organ primordia.
14752608	The conservation of the linear order (colinearity) of genetic markers along large chromosome segments in wheat and rice is well established, but less is known about the microcolinearity between both genomes at subcentimorgan distances. In this study we focused on the microcolinearity between a 2.6-cM interval flanked by markers Xcdo365 and Xucw65 on wheat chromosome 6B and rice chromosome 2. A previous study has shown that this wheat segment includes the Gpc-6B1 locus, which is responsible for large differences in grain protein content (GPC) and is the target of a positional cloning effort in our laboratories. Twenty-one recombination events between Xcdo365 and Xucw65 were found in a large segregating population (935 gametes) and used to map 17 genes selected from rice chromosome 2 in the wheat genetic map. We found a high level of colinearity between a 2.1-cM region flanked by loci Xucw75 and Xucw67 on wheat chromosome 6B and a 350-kb uninterrupted sequenced region in rice chromosome arm 2S. Colinearity between these two genomes was extended to the region proximal to Xucw67 (eight colinear RFLP markers), but was interrupted distal to Xucw75 (six non-colinear RFLP markers). Analysis of different comparative studies between rice and wheat suggests that microcolinearity is more frequently disrupted in the distal region of the wheat chromosomes. Fortunately, the region encompassing the Gpc-6B1 locus showed an excellent conservation between the two genomes, facilitating the saturation of the target region of the wheat genetic map with molecular markers. These markers were used to map the Gpc-6B1 locus into a 0.3-cM interval flanked by PCR markers Xucw79 and Xucw71, and to identify five candidate genes within the colinear 64-kb region in rice.
14754202	We report the results of simulations of the phase diagrams of a quasi-two-dimensional (Q2D) colloid assembly and of a two-dimensional (2D) colloid assembly which have the same colloid-colloid interaction. That interaction is the same as used in the study reported by Zangi and Rice [Phys. Rev. E 58, 7529 (1998)]. Among the goals of the work reported are elucidation of the influence of small amplitude out-of-plane motion on the phase diagram of a system and determination of the effect of that motion on the role of a hexatic phase in the melting process. Both of the systems we have studied undergo a first-order solid I-solid II and solid II-solid III isostructural transition induced by the attractive and repulsive components of the interaction, respectively. Introduction of the out-of-plane motion shifts the low density portion of the phase boundaries involving the solid II phase. The liquid-solid I coexistence line is nearly the same for the two systems. The solid II-solid III transition is shifted to lower temperature and shifted to higher density in the quasi-two-dimensional system. We further use the simulations to calculate the elastic constants, which can be used to predict the location of the Kosterlitz-Thouless-Halperin-Nelson-Young (KTHNY) melting transition. For the Q2D system we find that the first-order melting transition preempts the KTHNY transition for the reduced temperatures T(*)=1.00, 0.60, and 0.50. For the 2D system, when T(*)=0.60, the KTHNY transition barely preempts the first-order melting transition and when T(*)=1.00 and 0.50 the ordinary first-order transition preempts the KTHNY transition.
14754213	Recent experiments have demonstrated that the deviation of the single-particle displacement distribution from Gaussian form in a dense quasi-two-dimensional colloid suspension is a result of heterogenous dynamics that involves cooperative motions of neighboring colloid particles [J. Chem. Phys. 47, 9142 (2001)]. In this paper, we report the results of molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of a quasi-two-dimensional assembly of nearly hard-sphere colloid particles. The colloid-colloid interaction we use is short ranged and everywhere repulsive; it is related to the Marcus-Rice (MR) and modified MR interactions used in a previous study [Phys. Rev. E 58, 7529 (1998)]. As is the case for those systems, the one we study supports liquid, hexatic, and solid phases. Our calculations show that the deviation of the single-particle displacement distribution from Gaussian form is present in the liquid phase, and that a sharp increase in its magnitude occurs at the liquidus density and extends into the crystalline phase. For densities greater than the liquidus density we find three dynamical relaxation processes that include, at intermediate times, a slowing down in the rate of growth of the diffusive displacement of a particle due to the cage effect. As the density increases toward the solidus density, the dependence of the mean squared displacement on time, at intermediate times, changes from sublinear to zero. The onset of the long-time relaxation mode corresponds to the time at which the deviation of the particle displacement distribution from Gaussian form is a maximum. At this time, which increases exponentially with the density, the self-part of the van Hove function exhibits multiple maxima with respect to r while the distinct part of the van Hove function is a maximum at the origin, thereby signaling jump dynamics. At long times the particle mean square displacement has diffusive character at all densities including solid phase densities. A remarkable feature of our findings is the continuity of character of the particle displacement from the liquid phase through the hexatic phase and into the solid phase. Cooperative jumps that lead to diffusive process in crystals can be explained by a mechanism that involves many such correlated hops in random locations and random directions (but along the crystallographic axes) thereby generating effective random walk behavior. We argue that the collective motion we have found is generated by superpositions of instantaneous normal mode vibrations along diffusive paths. The diffusive paths are along the directions with strong bond orientation correlation, and start to grow in amplitude rapidly on entry into the hexatic phase.
14754915	Five ethylene receptor genes, OS-ERS1, OS-ERS2, OS-ETR2, OS-ETR3, and OS-ETR4 were isolated and characterized from rice. The genomic structure of OS-ERS1 and OS-ERS2 revealed that the introns within the coding sequences occurred in conserved positions to those of At-ETR1 and At-ERS1, whereas each of the OS-ETR2, OS-ETR3, and OS-ETR4 genes contained 1 intron within its coding region located at a position equivalent to those of At-ERS2, At-ETR2, and At-EIN4. Deduced amino acid sequences of OS-ERS1, OS-ERS2, OS-ETR2, OS-ETR3, and OS-ETR4 showed that they exhibited significant homology to the prokaryotic two-component signal transducer and a wide range of ethylene receptors in a variety of plant species. Northern analysis revealed that the level of OS-ETR2 mRNA was markedly elevated either by the exogenous application of IAA or by ethylene treatment in young etiolated rice seedlings, whereas the OS-ERS1 transcript level was only slightly induced under the same experimental conditions. Pretreatment with silver prevented IAA-induced and ethylene-induced accumulation of both mRNAs (OS-ERS1 and OS-ETR2). However, the abundance of OS-ERS2 mRNA was shown to be down-regulated by both IAA and ethylene treatments, indicating that it was not positively regulated by ethylene. Analysis of the expression of the three ethylene receptor genes in different tissues of rice has unravelled their corresponding tissue-specificity in which OS-ERS1 was constitutively expressed in considerable amounts in all tissues studied, while OS-ERS2 and OS-ETR2 exhibited differential expression patterns in different tissues of rice. Moreover, higher levels of these three mRNAs were commonly observed in anthers when compared with their corresponding levels in other tissues, suggesting the important role played by ethylene involved in the regulation of pollen development in rice. Among the five ethylene receptor genes, the expression levels of both OS-ETR3 and OS-ETR4 were too low to be detected by the northern blot analysis. Results from RT-PCR illustrated that both mRNAs were present in young green rice seedlings and anthers.
14756303	Replication factor C (RFC), which is composed of five subunits, is an important factor involved in DNA replication and repair mechanisms. Following previous studies on the RFC3 homologue from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) (OsRFC3), we succeeded in isolating and characterizing one large and three small subunits of RFC homologues from the same rice species and termed them OsRFC1, OsRFC2, OsRFC4 and OsRFC5. The plant was found to have all RFC subunits known in yeasts, human and other eukaryotes. The open reading frames of OsRFCs encoded a predicted product of 1021 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 110.8 kDa for OsRFC1, 339 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 37.4 kDa for OsRFC2, 335 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 36.8 kDa for OsRFC4, and 354 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 40.5 kDa for OsRFC5. All the OsRFC subunits have highly conserved amino acid motifs among RFC proteins, RFC box, and an unrooted phylogenetic tree shows each OsRFC subunit belongs to each RFC subunit group. These subunits showed differences in their expression patterns among tissues. The transcripts of OsRFCs were expressed strongly in the proliferating tissue, the shoot apical meristem (SAM), and very weakly in the mature leaves which have no proliferating tissues. However, in young leaves and flag leaves, tissue-specific expression of OsRFC3 and OsRFC4 was shown. On the other hand, cell cycle arrest by cell cycle inhibitors resulted in significant differences in OsRFC expression patterns. These results suggest the functional differences of each OsRFC subunit in tissues and the plant cell cycle. The roles of these molecules in plant DNA replication and DNA repair are discussed.
14756304	Putative phosphate transporters have been identified in a barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genomic library by their homology to known phosphate transporters from dicot species. The genes designated HORvu;Pht1;1 and HORvu;Pht1;6 encode proteins of 521 and 535 amino acids respectively with 12 predicted membrane-spanning domains and other motifs common to the Phtl family of phosphate transporters. HORvu;Pht1;1 is expressed exclusively in roots and is strongly induced by phosphate deprivation. HORvu;Pht1;6 is expressed in the aerial parts of the plant with strongest expression in old leaves and flag leaves. In situ hybridization showed that HORvu;Pht1;6 is expressed in the phloem of vascular bundles in leaves and ears. In order to study the biochemical properties of HORvu;Pht1;1 and HORvu;Pht1;6, the genes were expressed in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants under the control of the rice actin promoter and suspension cell cultures were generated. Cells derived from transgenic plants were able to take up phosphate at a much higher rate than control cells, demonstrating that both genes encode functional phosphate transporters. The estimated Km for phosphate for cells expressing HORvu;Pht1;1 was 9.06 +/- 0.82 microM, which is characteristic of a high-affinity transporter. The rate of phosphate uptake decreased with increasing pH, suggesting that HORvu;Pht1;1 operates as a H+/H2PO4(-) symporter. In contrast, the estimated Km for phosphate for cells expressing HORvu;Pht1;6 was 385 +/- 61 microM, which is characteristic of a low-affinity transporter. Taken together, the results suggest that HORvu;Pht1;1 functions in uptake of phosphate at the root surface, while HORvu;Pht1;6 probably functions in remobilization of stored phosphate from leaves.
14756421	A new Na+/H+ vacuolar antiporter gene from Brassica napus was cloned. The full-length cDNA of B. napus antiporter gene (BnNHX1, GenBank Acc. No. AY189676) was 1819 bp and contained a 1545 bp open reading frame encoding a protein of 515 amino acids. Homology analysis and molecular modeling revealed that BnNHX1 strongly resembled other Na+/H+ antiporter genes. Its encoded protein belonged to a typical sodium/hydrogen exchanger superfamily and shared consensus sequences within predicted transmemberane segments. Southern blot analysis indicated there were multi-copies of BnNHX1 gene present in B. napus genome, which was different from that in Oryza sativa previously reported. Northern blot analysis revealed that BnNHX1 was salt-inducible and its transcript level was most abundant after 24 h treatment with 200 mM sodium chloride. Our studies suggested that BnNHX1 was a new member of the family of recently cloned plant NHX-genes.
14756772	The phytohormone gibberellin (GA) controls growth and development in plants. Previously, we identified a rice F-box protein, gibberellin-insensitive dwarf2 (GID2), which is essential for GA-mediated DELLA protein degradation. In this study, we analyzed the biological and molecular biological properties of GID2. Expression of GID2 preferentially occurred in rice organs actively synthesizing GA. Domain analysis of GID2 revealed that the C-terminal regions were essential for the GID2 function, but not the N-terminal region. Yeast two-hybrid assay and immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that GID2 is a component of the SCF complex through an interaction with a rice ASK1 homolog, OsSkp15. Furthermore, an in vitro pull-down assay revealed that GID2 specifically interacted with the phosphorylated Slender Rice 1 (SLR1). Taken these results together, we conclude that the phosphorylated SLR1 is caught by the SCFGID2 complex through an interacting affinity between GID2 and phosphorylated SLR1, triggering the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of SLR1.
14758540	To elucidate the genetic system that establishes homologous chromosome pairing in monocot plants, we have isolated an asynaptic mutant of rice, designated pair2 (homologous pairing aberration in rice meiosis 2), in which 24 completely unpaired univalents are observed at pachytene and diakinesis. The mutation was caused by an insertion of the retrotransposon Tos17, as demonstrated by complementation of the mutation by transformation with the corresponding wild-type gene. The gene in which the element was inserted is orthologous to the ASY1 gene of Arabidopsis thaliana and the HOP1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Mature PAIR2 mRNA and several splicing variants were found to be highly expressed in wild-type reproductive tissues, and lower expression was also detected in vegetative tissues. In situ hybridization and BrdU incorporation experiments revealed that PAIR2 expression is specifically enhanced in male and female meiocytes, but not in those at pre-meiotic S phase or in the pollen maturation stages. The results obtained in this study suggest that the PAIR2 gene is essential for homologous chromosome pairing in meiosis, as in the case of the genes ASY1 and HOP1. The study also suggested the possibility that a highly homologous copy of the PAIR2 gene located on a different chromosome is in fact a pseudogene.
14758543	The principal sources of genetic variation that can be assayed with restriction enzymes are base substitutions and insertions/deletions (indels). The likelihood of detecting indels as restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) is determined by the size and frequency of the indels, and the ability to resolve small indels as RFLPs is limited by the distribution of restriction fragment sizes. In this study, we use aligned sequences from the indica and japonica subspecies of rice (Oryza sativaL.) to quantify and compare the ability of restriction enzymes to detect indels. We look specifically at two abundant transposable element-derived indel sources: miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs) and long terminal repeat (LTR) retroelements. From this analysis we conclude that indels rather than base substitutions are the prevailing source of the polymorphism detected in rice. We show that, although MITE derived indels are more abundant than LTR-retroelement derived indels, LTR-retroelements have a greater capacity to generate visible restriction fragment length polymorphism because of their larger size. We find that the variation in the detectability of indels among restriction enzymes can be explained by differences in the frequency and dispersion of their restriction sites in the genome. The parameters that describe the fragment size distributions obtained with the restriction enzymes are highly correlated across the sequenced genomes of rice, Arabidopsis and human, with the exception of some extreme deviations in frequency for particular recognition sequences corresponding to variations in the levels and modes of DNA methylation in the three disparate organisms. Thus, we can predict the relative ability of a restriction enzyme to detect indels derived from a specific source based on the distribution of restriction fragment sizes, even when this is estimated for a distantly related genome.
14759158	Globulin-P, the polymerized 11S amaranth globulin, is composed of 280 kDa unitary molecules (UM, 23%) and aggregates larger than 500 kDa (A, 70%). Antibodies against these proteins were prepared to study their surface characteristics and to assess their homology with other storage proteins. Results showed that globulin-P unitary molecules and aggregates had similar reactive surfaces. A polypeptide of 56 kDa was found to be the most reactive to the antibodies assayed, followed by the acidic polypeptides. Such results support previous information, according to which these polypeptides appeared to be the most exposed on the molecule surface. Globulin-P fraction presented cross-reactivity with the remaining amaranth protein fractions: 11S-globulin, glutelins, and albumins. Globulin-P and 11S-globulin showed similar reactive surfaces whereas glutelin and albumins presented a lower cross-reactivity. The reactivity of the glutelin fraction depended on its sequence. Globulin-P fraction presented cross-reactivity with quinoa globulins, and to a lesser extent with globulins of sunflower and rice. Moreover, the anti-Gp serum was unable to detect either conformational or sequence epitopes in globulins of soybean, wheat, buckwheat, rice, and rye.
1476019	1006 patients with typical and atypical lesions of atopic dermatitis (AD) were analysed statistically. The clinical severity was closely correlated to serum IgE values and RAST (radio-allergosorbent test) positivity. The frequency of RAST-positive antigens was significantly correlated with serum IgE values (gamma = 0.712; p < 0.01). The analysis of multiple correlation between the clinical severity and each RAST score for mite, egg white and rice antigens suggested a strong contribution of rice allergy to the development of severe AD. 25 patients with severe AD and positive rice-RAST were treated by rice exclusion diet. The results were as follows: 9 cases remarkably responsive, 10 cases moderately responsive and 6 cases unresponsive. The rice-RAST titre decreased most remarkably in the 1st group. The wheat-RAST titre also decreased in the 1st, in spite of taking wheat foods every day, but increased in the 3rd. A probable role of rice allergy in severe AD in Japan is discussed.
1476020	The clinical usefulness of a hypoallergenic rice (HRS-1) which was produced by enzymatic decomposition of the constituent proteins of original rice was evaluated in a multicentre study in 44 subjects with recalcitrant atopic dermatitis (AD), who were suspected of having rice allergy. The subjects were fed for at least 4 weeks with HRS-1 instead of eliminating both regular rice and wheat from their daily diet. The extent of overall skin lesions was expressed by using the AD affected area and severity index (ADASI). A statistically significant decrease in ADASI was observed at the 2nd and the 4th week readings and at the end of the study. A provocation test with regular rice was carried out in 5 of 44 subjects following the HRS-1 therapy. An obvious increase in ADASI was found in all of these 5 cases just after this procedure. On final evaluation, 77% of the patients tested showed 'moderate' to 'remarkable' improvement, and 59% of the patients a 'moderate' to 'remarkable' reduction in use of the steroid ointment concomitantly used for the treatment. Finally, HRS-1 was evaluated as 'useful' or 'very useful' in 69% of the subjects.
14760520	A survey of minisatellites (MSs) in 5.3 Mb of randomly selected rice DNA sequences from public databases was carried out to clarify the role of transposable elements (TEs) in the dispersal of MSs in the rice genome. The estimated frequency of MSs in this sample was one per 23.4 kb, and this frequency is approximately equivalent to that of Class I microsatellites in the rice genome. Of the MSs in the 5.3-Mb sequence sample, 82% were found to be present in multiple copies in the rice genome, and all of these were a part of TE sequences. In this study at least 61 TE groups were identified as MS carriers. It was also shown that the GC-rich MS pOs6.2H, which was previously reported to be one of the interspersed MSs in the rice genome, is a component of an En/Spm-like element. These results indicate that the majority of MSs in the rice genome are maintained in TEs, and amplified and dispersed as components of the TEs. The G+C content of the multi-locus MS sequences reflected that of the TE sequences containing those MSs, but no obvious bias towards the high G+C content of DNA was observed. Single locus MSs also did not show any obvious bias towards the high G+C content of DNA in the rice genome. In this respect, the MSs in the rice genome are quite different from those in the human genome: in the latter, the majority of MSs show an obvious bias towards the high G+C content of DNA.
14760574	This study compared dietary intakes of Korean, Korean-American, and American adolescents. Data were collected by 24-hour recall method from 471 Korean and 134 Korean-American adolescents. Data for American adolescents were obtained from NHANES III. Korean Americans had the lowest energy and cholesterol intakes but a higher percentage of energy from fat compared with Koreans. Korean and Korean Americans had lower intakes of calcium, iron, and zinc but higher sodium intake than Americans. Intakes of energy, folate, calcium, and iron in all three groups were below the recommended intakes for American adolescents. Korean Americans consumed cooked rice and Kimchi less often, but cookies, sweets, and soda were consumed more frequently than Koreans. These results indicate that Korean-American adolescents' dietary profiles are midway between those typical in Korea vs the United States. Nutrition education must focus on the benefits and weaknesses of Korean and western diets and how to blend the two cultures for optimal nutrition.
14763835	Rice straw was hydrolyzed into a mixture of sugars using diluted H(2)SO(4). During hydrolysis, a variety of inhibitors was also produced, including acetic acid, furfural, hydroxymethylfurfural, and lignin degradation products (several aromatic and phenolic compounds). To reduce the toxic compounds concentration in the hydrolyzate and to improve the xylitol yield and volumetric productivity, rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolyzate was treated with activated charcoal under different pH values, stirring rates, contact times, and temperatures, employing a 2(4) full-factorial design. Fermentative assays were conducted with treated hydrolyzates containing 90 g/L xylose. The results indicated that temperature, pH, and stirring rate strongly influenced the hydrolyzate treatment, temperature and pH interfering with all of the responses analyzed (removal of color and lignin degradation products, xylitol yield factor, and volumetric productivity). The combination of pH 2.0, 150 rpm, 45 degrees C, and 60 min was considered an optimal condition, providing significant removal rates of color (48.9%) and lignin degradation products (25.8%), as well as a xylitol production of 66 g/L, a volumetric productivity of 0.57 g/L.h, and a yield factor of 0.72 g/g.
14764557	Accurate gene structure annotation is a challenging computational problem in genomics. The best results are achieved with spliced alignment of full-length cDNAs or multiple expressed sequence tags (ESTs) with sufficient overlap to cover the entire gene. For most species, cDNA and EST collections are far from comprehensive. We sought to overcome this bottleneck by exploring the possibility of using combined EST resources from fairly diverged species that still share a common gene space. Previous spliced alignment tools were found inadequate for this task because they rely on very high sequence similarity between the ESTs and the genomic DNA. We have developed a computer program, GeneSeqer, which is capable of aligning thousands of ESTs with a long genomic sequence in a reasonable amount of time. The algorithm is uniquely designed to tolerate a high percentage of mismatches and insertions or deletions in the EST relative to the genomic template. This feature allows use of non-cognate ESTs for gene structure prediction, including ESTs derived from duplicated genes and homologous genes from related species. The increased gene prediction sensitivity results in part from novel splice site prediction models that are also available as a stand-alone splice site prediction tool. We assessed GeneSeqer performance relative to a standard Arabidopsis thaliana gene set and demonstrate its utility for plant genome annotation. In particular, we propose that this method provides a timely tool for the annotation of the rice genome, using abundant ESTs from other cereals and plants. The source code is available for download at http://bioinformatics.iastate.edu/bioinformatics2go/gs/download.html. Web servers for Arabidopsis and other plant species are accessible at http://www.plantgdb.org/cgi-bin/AtGeneSeqer.cgi and http://www.plantgdb.org/cgi-bin/GeneSeqer.cgi, respectively. For non-plant species, use http://bioinformatics.iastate.edu/cgi-bin/gs.cgi. The splice site prediction tool (SplicePredictor) is distributed with the GeneSeqer code. A SplicePredictor web server is available at http://bioinformatics.iastate.edu/cgi-bin/sp.cgi
14764899	Plant MADS-box genes form a large gene family for transcription factors and are involved in various aspects of developmental processes, including flower development. They are known to be subject to birth-and-death evolution, but the detailed features of this mode of evolution remain unclear. To have a deeper insight into the evolutionary pattern of this gene family, we enumerated all available functional and nonfunctional (pseudogene) MADS-box genes from the Arabidopsis and rice genomes. Plant MADS-box genes can be classified into types I and II genes on the basis of phylogenetic analysis. Conducting extensive homology search and phylogenetic analysis, we found 64 presumed functional and 37 nonfunctional type I genes and 43 presumed functional and 4 nonfunctional type II genes in Arabidopsis. We also found 24 presumed functional and 6 nonfunctional type I genes and 47 presumed functional and 1 nonfunctional type II genes in rice. Our phylogenetic analysis indicated there were at least about four to eight type I genes and approximately 15-20 type II genes in the most recent common ancestor of Arabidopsis and rice. It has also been suggested that type I genes have experienced a higher rate of birth-and-death evolution than type II genes in angiosperms. Furthermore, the higher rate of birth-and-death evolution in type I genes appeared partly due to a higher frequency of segmental gene duplication and weaker purifying selection in type I than in type II genes.
14764908	Lipoic acid-dependent pathways of alpha-keto acid oxidation by mitochondria were investigated in pea (Pisum sativum), rice (Oryza sativa), and Arabidopsis. Proteins containing covalently bound lipoic acid were identified on isoelectric focusing/sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis separations of mitochondrial proteins by the use of antibodies raised to this cofactor. All these proteins were identified by tandem mass spectrometry. Lipoic acid-containing acyltransferases from pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex were identified from all three species. In addition, acyltransferases from the branched-chain dehydrogenase complex were identified in both Arabidopsis and rice mitochondria. The substrate-dependent reduction of NAD(+) was analyzed by spectrophotometry using specific alpha-keto acids. Pyruvate- and alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent reactions were measured in all three species. Activity of the branched-chain dehydrogenase complex was only measurable in Arabidopsis mitochondria using substrates that represented the alpha-keto acids derived by deamination of branched-chain amino acids (Val [valine], leucine, and isoleucine). The rate of branched-chain amino acid- and alpha-keto acid-dependent oxygen consumption by intact Arabidopsis mitochondria was highest with Val and the Val-derived alpha-keto acid, alpha-ketoisovaleric acid. Sequencing of peptides derived from trypsination of Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteins revealed the presence of many of the enzymes required for the oxidation of all three branched-chain amino acids. The potential role of branched-chain amino acid catabolism as an oxidative phosphorylation energy source or as a detoxification pathway during plant stress is discussed.
14765419
14767678	Comparative RFLP mapping has revealed extensive conservation of marker order in different grass genomes. However, microcolinearity studies at the sequence level have shown rapid genome evolution and many exceptions to colinearity. Most of these studies have focused on a limited size of genomic fragment and the extent of microcolinearity over large distances or across entire genomes remains poorly characterized in grasses. Here, we have investigated the microcolinearity between the rice genome and a total of 1,500 kb from physical BAC contigs on wheat chromosome 1AS. Using ESTs mapped in wheat chromosome bins as an additional source of physical data, we have identified 27 conserved orthologous sequences between wheat chromosome 1AS and a region of 1,210 kb located on rice chromosome 5S. Our results extend the orthology described earlier between wheat chromosome group 1S and rice chromosome 5S. Microcolinearity was found to be frequently disrupted by rearrangements which must have occurred after the divergence of wheat and rice. At the Lr10 orthologous loci, microrearrangements were due to the insertion of mobile elements, but also originated from gene movement, amplification, deletion and inversion. These mechanisms of genome evolution are at the origin of the mosaic conservation observed between the orthologous regions. Finally, in silico mapping of wheat genes identified an intragenomic colinearity between fragments from rice chromosome 1L and 5S, suggesting an ancestral segmental duplication in rice.
14768875	Fipronil is a novel gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor-specific phenylpyrazole insecticide commonly used near estuarine environments for rice production, turf-grass management, and residential insect control. In this study, we evaluated the acute, developmental, and reproductive toxicity of fipronil to the estuarine harpacticoid copepod Amphiascus tenuiremis. Fipronil was highly toxic to A. tenuiremis (adult 96-h median lethal concentration [LC50] = 6.8 microg/L) and was more toxic to male copepods (96-h LC50 = 3.5 microg/L) than to nongravid female copepods (96-h LC50 = 13.0 microg/L). By using a newly developed 96-well microplate-based life-cycle toxicity test, we successfully reared single individuals of A. tenuiremis to adulthood in 200-microl microwells and concurrently assessed developmental and reproductive effects (after paired virginal matings) of environmentally relevant aqueous fipronil concentrations (0.16, 0.22, and 0.42 microg/L measured). Throughout the entire life cycle, copepod survival in all treatments was >90%. However, fipronil at 0.22 microg/L and higher significantly delayed male and female development from stage 1 copepodite to adult by approximately 2 d. More importantly, fipronil significantly halted female egg extrusion by 71% in the 0.22-microg/L fipronil treatment, and nearly eliminated reproduction (94% failure) in the 0.42-microg/L fipronil treatment. A three-generation Leslie matrix-based population growth model of fipronil reproductive and life-cycle impacts predicted a 62% decline in population size of A. tenuiremis relative to controls at only 0.16 microg/L.
14770300	Comparative genomic analysis is the cornerstone of in silico-based approaches to understanding biological systems and processes across cereal species, such as rice, wheat and barley, in order to identify genes of agronomic interest. The size of the genomic repositories is nearly doubling every year, and this has significant implications on the way bioinformatics analyses are carried out. In this overview the concepts and technology underpinning bioinformatics as applied to comparative genomic analysis are considered in the context of other manuscripts appearing in this issue of Functional and Integrative Genomics.
14770301	Pre-harvest sprouting results in significant economic loss for the grain industry around the world. Lack of adequate seed dormancy is the major reason for pre-harvest sprouting in the field under wet weather conditions. Although this trait is governed by multiple genes it is also highly heritable. A major QTL controlling both pre-harvest sprouting and seed dormancy has been identified on the long arm of barley chromosome 5H, and it explains over 70% of the phenotypic variation. Comparative genomics approaches among barley, wheat and rice were used to identify candidate gene(s) controlling seed dormancy and hence one aspect of pre-harvest sprouting. The barley seed dormancy/pre-harvest sprouting QTL was located in a region that showed good synteny with the terminal end of the long arm of rice chromosome 3. The rice DNA sequences were annotated and a gene encoding GA20-oxidase was identified as a candidate gene controlling the seed dormancy/pre-harvest sprouting QTL on 5HL. This chromosomal region also shared synteny with the telomere region of wheat chromosome 4AL, but was located outside of the QTL reported for seed dormancy in wheat. The wheat chromosome 4AL QTL region for seed dormancy was syntenic to both rice chromosome 3 and 11. In both cases, corresponding QTLs for seed dormancy have been mapped in rice.
14771097
14771098
14771385
14773688
1477397	Factors associated with levels of physical activity at work and during leisure time were analyzed among 577 subjects who had been selected as population controls for a case-control study by random selection from telephone directories. The intensity of physical activity at work was inversely associated with body mass index, the proportion of professionals & managers, consumption of western style breakfast, coffee, butter/margarine, and whisky; and positively associated with rice intake. Frequency of physical activities during leisure time was positively associated with consumption of vegetables, fruits, mushrooms, milk, cheese and coffee, and moderation in eating; and inversely associated with rice intake and the prevalence of gastrointestinal symptoms and medication. The association of physical activity with these factors should be considered in studying its relationship to disease risk.
14774466
14780388
14781161
14785196
14788827
1478924	Four forms of branching enzyme, termed RBE1, RBE2 (a mixture of RBE2A and RBE2B), RBE3, and RBE4, were apparently separated by DEAE-cellulose column chromatography of soluble extract from immature rice seeds, and each of these four forms was further purified by gel-filtration. RBE1, RBE2A, and RBE2B were the predominant forms of the enzyme. The molecular size, amino-terminal amino acid sequence, and immunoreactivity with anti-maize branching enzyme-I (BE-I) antibody were identical among these three forms, except that the molecular mass of RBE2A was almost 3 kDa higher than those of RBE1 and RBE2B. These results indicate that RBE1, RBE2A, and RBE2B are the same (termed rice BE-I). The cDNA clones coding for rice BE-I have been identified from a rice seed library in lambda gt11, using the maize BE-I cDNA as a probe. The nucleotide sequence indicates that rice BE-I is initially synthesized as an 820-residue precursor protein, including a putative 64- or 66-residue transit peptide at the amino terminus. The rice mature BE-I contains 756 (or 754) amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 86,734 (or 86,502) Da, and shares a high degree of sequence identity (86%) with the maize protein. The consensus sequences of the four regions that form the catalytic sites of amylolytic enzymes are conserved in the central region of the rice BE-I sequence. Thus, rice BE-I as well as the maize protein belongs to a family of amylolytic enzymes.
14792995
14795920
14801408
14801410
14803342
14804156
14814520
14815727
14820400
1482294	Classification and characterization of allergens is important because allergic patients are sensitized by a variety of allergens. One hundred and sixty-one sera from asthmatic children were investigated for specific IgE antibodies against 35 allergens including 20 inhalants and 15 foods by means of the MAST method. We assessed the allergenic properties of the allergens based on positive percentage agreement and cluster analysis. There was a high positive percentage agreement of specific IgE antibodies between house dust and Dermatophagoides spp., a relatively high agreement between 5 molds, cat and dog epithelium, mugwort and wormwood and 5 grasses. Among the food allergens, the positive percentage agreements were relatively high, especially between cow's milk, casein, cheese, and between 3 cereal grains. In the cluster analysis, house dust and Dermatophagoides spp. made a big cluster; therefore 32 allergens except house dust and mites were analyzed. From the results of the cluster analysis, the major cluster consisted of (1) ragweed, (2) mugwort and wormwood, (3) timothy, sweet vernal, velvet and cultivated rye, (4) wheat, barley and rice, (5) molds, (6) cow's milk, casein, soybean and cheese, (7) shrimp and crab, (8) egg white, (9) Japanese cedar, (10) dog epithelium, (11) cat epithelium. The cluster of grass pollens and cereal grains made one cluster. These results tend to confirm the presence of species cross-reactivities within the major classes of allergens.
14828377
14833616
1483928	The relation of atrophic gastritis, other gastric lesions and lifestyle factors to stomach cancer risk was prospectively studied among 3,914 subjects who underwent gastroscopic examination and responded to a questionnaire survey at the Aichi Cancer Center Hospital. During 4.4 years of follow-up on average, 45 incident cases of stomach cancer were identified at least three months after the initial examination. If the baseline endoscopic findings indicated the presence of atrophic gastritis, the risk of developing stomach cancer was increased 5.73-fold, compared with no indication at the baseline. The risk further increased with advancing degree of atrophy and increasing extension of atrophy on the lesser curvature. These trends in the relative risks were statistically significant (P = 0.027 and P = 0.041, respectively). The risk of developing stomach cancer was statistically significantly increased among subjects with gastric polyps, but not among those with gastric ulcer. Stomach cancer cases tended to consume more cigarettes, alcohol, rice, pickles and salted fish gut/cod roe and less fruits and vegetables and to have more family histories of stomach cancer than noncases, although these differences were not statistically significant. The results of the present study provide additional evidence on the relation between atrophic gastritis and stomach cancer and suggest a need for intensive follow-up of patients with atrophic gastritis and gastric polyps.
14839733
14851077
1485598
14863341
14863588
14863775
14863782
14866959
14867778
14870623	This study presents data on consumption patterns, methods of food procurement, and adequacy of dietary intake among Burmese refugee camp households living along Thailand's border with Burma. Households established for one or more years and with children under 15 years of age were sampled. A questionnaire was used to determine economic, food-consumption, and dietary intake patterns; foods consumed were weighed and measured using a 24-hour recall for the household unit; and nutritional status was determined by a Microtoise tape and digital standing scales. In total, 182 households containing 1,159 people were surveyed. The average household energy and protein intakes were 96.6% and 111.4%, respectively, of the recommended daily allowance (RDA) for healthy Thais. Twelve percent of protein was derived from animal sources. Carbohydrate, protein, and fat accounted for 84%, 9%, and 7% of total energy, respectively. The intake of vitamins A, B1, B2, and C and of calcium ranged from 24.2% to 53.1% of the RDA. Iron intake was 85.3% of the RDA, derived mainly from rice, fermented fish, mung beans, green leafy vegetables, and eggs. Ration foods supplied 60.5% to 98.18% of all nutrients consumed in the households, with the exception of vitamins A and C. Among children under five years of age, 33.7% were underweight, 36.4% were studied, and 8.7% were wasted. Although the refugees were able to procure some nonration foods by foraging, planting trees and vegetables, raising animals, and purchasing and exchanging ration foods for other items, the quantity and quality were not sufficient to compensate for the nutrients that were low or lacking in the ration. The overwhelming majority of dietary nutrients were provided by ration foods, and although the ration and the overall diet may be adequate for short-term subsistence, they do not suffice for long-term survival and optimal growth, especially for younger children.
14871306	The major constraint to plant growth in acid soils is the presence of toxic aluminum (Al) cations, which inhibit root elongation. The enhanced Al tolerance exhibited by some cultivars of wheat is associated with the Al-dependent efflux of malate from root apices. Malate forms a stable complex with Al that is harmless to plants and, therefore, this efflux of malate forms the basis of a hypothesis to explain Al tolerance in wheat. Here, we report on the cloning of a wheat gene, ALMT1 (aluminum-activated malate transporter), that co-segregates with Al tolerance in F2 and F3 populations derived from crosses between near-isogenic wheat lines that differ in Al tolerance. The ALMT1 gene encodes a membrane protein, which is constitutively expressed in the root apices of the Al-tolerant line at greater levels than in the near-isogenic but Al-sensitive line. Heterologous expression of ALMT1 in Xenopus oocytes, rice and cultured tobacco cells conferred an Al-activated malate efflux. Additionally, ALMT1 increased the tolerance of tobacco cells to Al treatment. These findings demonstrate that ALMT1 encodes an Al-activated malate transporter that is capable of conferring Al tolerance to plant cells.
14871309	Light regulates plant growth and development through a network of endogenous factors. By screening Arabidopsis activation-tagged lines, we isolated a dominant mutant (light-dependent short hypocotyls 1-D (lsh1-D)) that showed hypersensitive responses to continuous red (cR), far-red (cFR) and blue (cB) light and cloned the corresponding gene, LSH1. LSH1 encodes a nuclear protein of a novel gene family that has homologues in Arabidopsis and rice. The effects of the lsh1-D mutation were tested in a series of photoreceptor mutant backgrounds. The hypersensitivity to cFR and cB light conferred by lsh1-D was abolished in a phyA null background (phyA-201), and the hypersensitivity to cR and cFR light conferred by lsh1-D was much reduced in the phytochrome-chromophore synthetic mutant, hy1-1 (long hypocotyl 1). These results indicate that LSH1 is functionally dependent on phytochrome to mediate light regulation of seedling development.
14871660	Cereals contain proteinaceous inhibitors of endoxylanases, which affect the efficiency and functionality of these enzymes in cereal processing. This review relates their first discovery in wheat and the subsequent purification of two distinct classes of endoxylanase inhibitors, namely Triticum aestivum xylanase inhibitor (TAXI)-type and xylanase inhibitor protein (XIP)-type inhibitors in cereals. Both inhibitor classes occur in monocots as multi-isoform families. The reported data provide an overview of the relative quantitative and qualitative variation of these inhibitors in cereals. Wheat and rye are particularly rich in TAXI-type and XIP-type inhibitors with the latter inhibitors being more abundant. Lower inhibitor levels are present in durum wheat and barley, while maize contains solely XIP-type inhibitors. No inhibitors have been isolated from rice, oats and buckwheat.
14875095
14880903
14882339
14884788
1488694	Dioctahedral smectite, a non systemic antidiarrheal agent, is mucoprotective and absorbs enterotoxins and rotavirus as demonstrated in animal models. Smectite has been successfully used in various countries in children and adults with acute diarrhea. This study was to assess the efficiency of smectite associated with rehydration in infants with acute secretory diarrhea. Sixty-two hospitalized Thai infants, aged 1-24 months, with acute secretory diarrhea were randomly divided into 2 groups receiving (1) oral rehydration solution (ORS) (30 cases), (2) ORS and Smectite (3.6 g/day) (32 cases). Both groups were comparable for age, weight, nutritional status and duration of symptoms before treatment. All 62 infants received lactose free formula and chicken rice soup as the standard diet. Stool frequency, weight change and duration of diarrhea were recorded. The mean duration of diarrhea was 84.7 +/- 48.5 hours in group 1, and 43.3 +/- 25.1 hours in group 2 (p = 0.005). The number of infants with diarrhea was significantly lower in group 2 on Day 1 (p < 0.01) and Day 3 (p = 0.001); furthermore 27% of infants in group 1 and 3% in group 2 had still diarrhea on Day 5. The stool frequency and weight changes were not statistically different in the two groups. No major side effects were observed except two cases of vomiting and hardened stools. It is concluded that (1) Smectite shortens the course of acute secretory diarrhea in Thai infants; (2) smectite may reduce the occurrence of prolonged diarrhea; furthermore (3) in our study dioctahedral smectite was found to be safe in children aged 1 to 24 months.
1488696	Dehydration is the most common cause of death in diarrheal patients. Early oral rehydration therapy (ORT) can prevent or reverse dehydration from diarrhea in almost almost all cases. Shortages of oral rehydration salt (ORS) packets in certain areas remain a major problem of the Diarrheal Diseases Control Program of Thailand. To find an effective solution that can be prepared locally, a randomized trial of oral rehydration solutions was conducted. A rice-powder salt solution containing rice-power 30 g/l and salt 3.5 g/l (RPSS) was evaluated in a group (n = 23) of infants and young children aged between 4 months and 5 years with mild or moderate dehydration from acute watery diarrhea, and the results were compared with those who received WHO recommended glucose electrolyte solution (WHO-ORS) (n = 21), and glycine supplemented WHO-ORS (G-ORS) (n = 20). The efficacies of WHO ORS and G-ORS were found to be similar. The RPSS was found to be more effective than WHO-ORS and G-ORS as shown by a significantly lower stool frequency, lower rate of stool output, a significantly shorter duration of diarrhea, and a smaller intake of rehydration fluid. Promotion of the effective rice-salt solution could increase early implementation of ORT in many rural communities.
14888259
14888260
14907306
14908050
1490912	The rates of engulfment and breakdown of starch grains and cellulose particles and of the rate of synthesis of amylopectin from cellulose by individual species of entodiniomorphid protozoa (grown in vivo and in vitro) and incubated anaerobically in vitro were studied. Rates of starch uptake varied from 2.3 to 770 micrograms/mg protozoal protein/min; the lowest was found with Diploplastron affine and the highest with Entodinium spp. on initial incubation with starch grains. The rate of starch breakdown varied from 0.49 to 8.6 micrograms/mg protein/min; the rate was dependent on the initial starch concentration inside the protozoa. Eudiplodinium maggii engulfed cellulose particles more rapidly (2-7 times) than rice starch grains and digested the cellulose at rates of 10 to 16.5 micrograms/mg protein/min. In a mixture of starch grains and cellulose particles, it engulfed the latter at 1.35 to 25 times the rate of the former. Eudiplodinium maggii and Epidinium caudatum, but not Entodinium spp. or Dip. affine, synthesized an amylopectin-like material from cellulose at rates of 0.4 to 4.75 micrograms/mg protein/min. If these reactions occur in the rumen in vivo, up to 9 g of amylopectin could be synthesized from cellulose each day by the entodiniomorphid protozoa.
14911098
14928158
1493127	Yellow discoloration often develops in rice kernels during post-harvest storage, due possibly to fungal activity. The present study examined the changes in nutrient composition taking place during yellowing of rice, and the effects of feeding rats and broiler chicks on a moderately yellow rice at 600 g/kg diet. Nitrogen content was found to be higher in rice grains that had become more yellow, only part of the increase being in non-protein-N; however, relative to crude protein (N x 6.25) the concentrations of lysine, methionine, cystine and arginine were lower. There were no significant differences between white and yellow rice in the food intake, weight gain and efficiency of food utilization (EFU) of rats and chicks when diets were formulated to contain similar nutrient concentrations, or the same basal ingredient composition. Diet pelleting increased food intake and weight gain in both animal species, but reduced dry matter and energy digestibility in rats; effects on nutrient retention in chicks were largely non-significant. Liver weights of rats and chicks and pancreas weights of chicks were unaffected by yellow rice; however, chicks fed on mash had a larger pancreas on average than those fed on pellets. Thus, whilst the nutrient composition of rice is altered during yellowing, a moderately yellow rice is unlikely to produce major adverse effects when fed to rats and broiler chicks.
14937748
14937876
14937877
1493882	A rapid method is described for the isolation and determination of zearalenone (ZEN) produced by Fusarium spp., in moist rice culture. Following a simple solvent extraction using acetonitrile:water, the crude extract was defatted with hexane and diluted with methanol. The extract solution containing ZEN was evaporated to dryness, the residue dissolved in acetonitrile and diluted with water. The solution was analysed by liquid chromatography using a UV-diode array detector. The UV spectra and chromatographic data generated from the standard ZEN was stored in a computer and used to identify the toxin in a crude mixture. The purity of the separated peak and the amount of toxin in the crude mixture was determined. The present technique is fast and allows the acquisition of UV spectral information and chromatographic data of ZEN in a single chromatographic operation. Recovery of zearalenone added to the rice was 76-94%.
14941547
1494307	The desertion of Angkor, which during more than five centuries was the center of a glorious civilization, has long been a matter of mystery and conjecture. The discovery of the vectorial capacity of the jungle mosquito Anopheles dirus, its epidemiological importance in the emergence and spread of multidrug resistance in Plasmodium falciparum malaria, the wiping out of large populations after transfer or deportation of non-immune Khmers into forest areas can now easily explain the desertion of Angkor. In 1431, Angkor Thom, the capital of the Khmer kingdom surrendered to the Thai conquerors. Soon afterwards, the young king left the city in search of a new capital. As a result of the population decrease large surfaces of rice fields were abandoned and reinvaded by the jungle, the typical biotope of Anopheles dirus. Severe epidemics of Plasmodium falciparum then occurred in the non-immune population with very high mortality decreasing again the number of workers and, thus, creating a vicious circle resulting in the progressive but complete desertion of Angkor.
1494362	Ayurvedic medicine, which uses decoctions made of medicinal plants, is used to cure diseases in many Asian countries including Sri Lanka. Although proper storage facilities for medicinal plants are unavailable in Sri Lanka, neither the potential for growth of toxigenic fungi nor their ability to produce mycotoxins in stored medicinal plants has been investigated. We isolated three Fusarium species, F. culmorum, F. acuminatum and F. graminearum from the medicinal plant Tribulus terrestris. Culture extracts of the 3 Fusarium spp. were cytotoxic to mammalian cell lines BHK-21 and HEP-2. Three toxic metabolites produced by Fusarium spp; T-2 toxin, zearalenone, and diacetoxyscirpenol were also cytotoxic to the mammalian cell lines. The 3 Fusarium spp. grown on rice media produced zearalenone. Plant material destined for medicinal use should be stored under suitable conditions to prevent growth of naturally occurring toxigenic fungi prior to its use.
14943677
1494573	The occurrence of ochratoxin A and ochratoxigenic fungi in the commercial batches of various domestic grains (wheat, rye, barley, corn and rice) has been studied. Penicillium cyclopium, P. viridicatum and P. chrysogenum isolated from grain synthesized on a sucrose-yeast medium predominantly patulin, penicillic and kojic acids. Only 4.4% of the fungal isolates were able to synthesize ochratoxin A. The concentration of the mycotoxin accumulated by the fungi was less than 500 micrograms/kg. 230 samples of wheat and 502 samples of corn were examined. The analysis showed that ochratoxin A was present in 0.9% and 0.1% of samples tested, respectively. The mycotoxin accumulated in grain mainly during its spontaneous heating and was concentrated in mold-damaged kernels.
1494575	Toxicological investigations of "Yellow Rice" which have been contaminated with various Penicillium species have shown that Penicillium islandicum apart from well-known hepatotoxic mycotoxin, lyteoskyrin synthesizes cyclochlorotine (chloropeptide, CP), which is also hepatotoxic. Isolation of chloropeptide and its chemical characteristics, acute toxicity and biochemical alterations, tissue distribution and excretion, deformation of hepatic cells, and interaction with cytoskeleton filaments are described. It is shown that the hepatotoxicity of CP is inactivated by dehalogenation of CP by the cytochrome P-450 system.
14963054	To determine whether barley, as the soluble fiber source, would beneficially change cardiovascular risk factors. Soluble fiber from oats has been recognized as beneficial in decreasing blood cholesterol levels. Although barley contains high amounts of soluble fiber, it is not consumed as extensively as oats. Eighteen moderately hypercholesterolemic men (28-62 y) consumed a controlled equilibration diet (Step 1, 30% fat, 55% carbohydrate, 15% protein, < 300 mg cholesterol) for 2 weeks followed by the diet with about 20% of energy replaced with brown rice/whole wheat, (1/2) barley & (1/2) brown rice/whole wheat or barley (< 0.4 g, 3 g and 6 g added soluble fiber/2800 kcal, respectively) for 5 weeks in a Latin square design. Fasting blood was drawn twice weekly. Total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triacylglycerols were measured enzymatically and lipid fractions were measured by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Compared with prestudy concentrations, total cholesterol (14%, 17%, and 20%, respectively) and LDL cholesterol (17%, 17%, and 24%, respectively) were significantly lower (p < 0.0001) after the low, medium, and high-soluble fiber diets. Triacylglycerol was 6%, 10%, and 16% lower (p = 0.09) whereas HDL cholesterol (9%, 7%, and 18%) was higher (p < 0.001) after the experimental diets. Total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol after the high-soluble fiber diet were significantly lower than concentrations after the low- or medium-soluble fiber diets. Mean LDL particle number significantly decreased (p < 0.007) and the large LDL cholesterol fraction showed a trend toward lower concentrations (p = 0.06). Increasing soluble fiber through consumption of barley in a healthy diet can reduce cardiovascular risk factors.
14963712	Yucheng ("oil-disease") victims were Taiwanese people exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and their heat-degradation products, mainly polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), from the ingestion of contaminated rice oil in 1978-1979. Serial studies in Yucheng offspring born between 1978 and 1992 are summarized. Children of the exposed women were born with retarded growth, with dysmorphic physical findings, and, during development, with delayed cognitive development, increased otitis media, and more behavioral problems than unexposed children. Recently, examination of the reproductive system has suggested that prenatal exposure exerts late effects on semen parameters in young men after puberty. Results of the investigation in Yucheng children will provide important information about the human health effects and toxicology of PCB/PCDF exposure. Prenatal exposure to these environmental chemicals causes the fetus to be sensitive to the toxic effects of persistent organic pollutants.
14963826	Over the last two decades, mutational techniques have become one of the most important tools available to progressive rice- breeding programs. In a mutation-breeding program initiated in 1999 at the Instituto Agronômico of Campinas, SP, Brazil, a rice line, IAC103, was selected for mutational studies with gamma radiation and ethyl methyl sulfonate mutagenesis, with the aim of developing a herbicide-resistant crop. After mutagenesis, surviving plants were exposed to glufosinate to check for herbicide resistance, which was examined up to the second generation. A detailed RAPD analysis was made of the resistant plants. Eighty Operon technology primers were tested and 10 were selected for a detailed study of RAPD markers that could tag herbicide resistance genes. Resistant and susceptible lines produced variation in the RAPD patterns and certain bands were found only in certain lines. These results suggest genetic ligation that will be confirmed through a genetic segregation study.
14963915	In order to screen strains with less or nearly no production of citrinin, thirty-five Monascus strains used in food industry were selected to investigate the effect of cultivation condition and the medium composition on citrinin production. The results from the study indicated that all strains produced citrinin on the rice with the levels ranging from 0.28 to 2458.80 mg/kg (201.60 mg/kg for the average and 61.99 mg/kg for the median, respectively), while 30 strains (85.71%) yielded this toxin on the submerged culture with the concentration between 0.09 and 55.65 mg/kg (11.99 mg/kg for the average and 3.51 mg/kg for the median, respectively). Therefore, citrinin production in rice in this study was higher than that in the liquid. In addition, the red pigment production in rice was 3-509 (average 93) times higher than that in the liquid. One strain with the highest color value (1134 U/g) but lower citrinin production in rice was obtained. These results suggested that it is necessary to make the safety evaluation of microorganisms for the production of foods and food ingredients, to investigate the ability of citrinin production by Monascus strains preserved by either the food manufacturer or the national culture collection units and, to survey the citrinin contamination in Monascus products countrywide. It is urgent for China to establish the tolerance limit of citrinin in foods fermented by Monascus species.
14964528	Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is an inducible defense response that protects plants against a broad spectrum of pathogens. A central regulator of SAR in Arabidopsis is NPR1 (nonexpresser of pathogenesis-related genes). In rice, overexpression of Arabidopsis NPR1 enhances plant resistance to the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. This report demonstrates that overexpression of (At)NPR1 in rice also triggers a lesion-mimic/cell death (LMD) phenotype. The LMD phenotype is environmentally regulated and heritable. In addition, the development of lesions and death correlates with the expression of rice defense genes and the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide. Application of the salicylic acid (SA) analog, benzo(1,2,3) thiadiazole-7-carbothioc acid S-methyl ester (BTH), potentiates this phenotype Endogenous SA levels are reduced in rice overexpressing (At)NPR1 when compared with wildtype plants, supporting the idea that (At)NPR1 may perceive and modulate the accumulation of SA. The association of (At)NPR1 expression in rice with the development of an LMD phenotype suggests that (At)NPR1 has multiple roles in plant stress responses that may affect its efficacy as a transgenic tool for engineering broad-spectrum resistance.
14965842	To reconstruct the digestive tract using the jejunum with vascular pedicle after esophagectomy or gastrectomy, and observe the therapeutic effects and the patients' quality of life after the operation. This study included a total of 25 patients, 10 of whom received proximal subtotal gastrectomy followed by reconstruction of the digestive tract with P-shaped jejunum for anastomosis of the esophagus and the residual stomach, 15 had total gastrectomy and anastomosis of the P-shaped jejunum with the esophagus inferior to the arch of aorta, with another 2 having total gastrectomy and the anastomosis superior to the arch of aorta. The pH value of the esophagus was tested, barium meal and gastroscopy were carried out 3 months after the operations, and the patients' quality of life assessed. Anastomotic leakage or infections in the thoracic or abdominal cavity occurred in none of the patients. All the patients had no postoperative difficulty in eating cooked rice, and were free of reflux esophagitis and burning sensation in the chest. The pH value of the esophagus was 5.5-6.6. Eight patients survived for more than 5 years. The effects of digestive tract reconstruction using the jejunum with vascular pedicle after esophagectomy or gastrectomy are satisfactory, especially in patients with esophageal cancer in the lower section or cardia cancer. This operation gives rise to low rate of operative complications, and insures good quality of life of the patients.
14966247	The molecular evolution of the R2R3-MYB gene family is of great interest because it is one of the most important transcription factor gene families in the plant kingdom. Comparative analyses of a gene family may reveal important adaptive changes at the protein level and thereby provide insights that relate structure to function. We have performed a range of comparative and bioinformatics analyses on R2R3-MYB genes identified from the rice (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica and indica) and Arabidopsis genome sequences. The study provides an initial framework to investigate how different evolutionary lineages in a gene family evolve new functions. Our results reveal a remarkable excess of non-synonymous substitutions, an indication of adaptive selection on protein structure that occurred during the evolution of both helix1 and helix2 of rice R2R3-MYB DNA-binding domains. These flexible alpha-helix regions associated with high frequencies of excess non-synonymous substitutions may play critical roles in the characteristic packing of R2R3-MYB DNA-binding domains and thereby modify the protein-DNA interaction process resulting in the recognition of novel DNA-binding sites. Furthermore, a co-evolutionary pattern is found between the second alpha-helix of the R2 domain and the second alpha-helix of the R3 domain by examining all the possible alpha-helix pairings in both the R2 and R3 domains. This points to the functional importance of pairing interactions between related secondary structures.
14968263	The expressed sequence tags (ESTs) presented in this report are the first transcriptomes of wild rice. A cDNA library was constructed from 4-week-old leaf samples of greenhouse-grown Oryza minuta. The 5,211 cDNA clones of O. minuta represent 3,401 unique sequences, consisting of 2,787 singletons and 614 assembled sequences. Database comparisons of the cDNAs in GenBank's non-redundant databases using BLAST revealed that 4,957 of the 5,211 cDNAs (95.1%) showed a high degree of sequence homology to genes from other organisms. Most of the transcripts identified were genes related to metabolism, energy, protein biosynthesis and subcellular localization. The metabolism and energy categories of the O. minuta ESTs showed a considerably higher gene expression level than those of O. sativa ESTs. These data and genes can be utilized in rice breeding.
14968308	The combination of cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) in one parent and a restorer gene (Rf) to restore fertility in another are indispensable for the development of hybrid varieties. We have found a rice Rf-1 gene that restores BT-type CMS by applying a positional cloning strategy. Using linkage analysis in combination with 6,104 BC(1)F(3) progeny derived from a cross between two near-isogenic lines (NILs) differing only at the Rf-1 locus, we delimited the Rf-1 gene to a 22.4-kb region in the rice genome. Duplicate open reading frames (Rf-1A and Rf-1B) with a pentatricopeptide (PPR) motif were found in this region. Since several insertions and/or deletions were found in the regions corresponding to both the Rf-1A and Rf-1B genes in the maintainer's allele, they may have lost their function. Rf-1A protein had a mitochondria-targeting signal, whereas Rf-1B did not. The Rf-1B gene encoded a shorter polypeptide that was determined by a premature stop codon. Based on the function of the Rf-1 gene, its product is expected to target mitochondria and may process the transcript from an atp6/orf79 region in the mitochondrial genome. Since the Rf-1A gene encodes a 791-amino acid protein with a signal targeting mitochondria and has 16 repeats of the PPR motif, we concluded that Rf-1A is the Rf-1 gene. Nine duplications of Rf-1A homologs were found around the Rf-1 locus in the Nipponbare genome. However, while some of them encoded proteins with the PPR motif, they do not restore BT-type CMS based on the lack of co-segregation with the restoration phenotype. These duplicates may have played diversified roles in RNA processing and/or recombination in mitochondria during the co-evolution of these genes and the mitochondrial genome.
14969415	Extracts of Phellinus linteus (EPB), grown on germinated brown rice, protected rats from liver injury induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). Peroxidation products in the liver were decreased to 10% by EPB. Catalase and superoxide dismutase activities were significantly decreased to 55% and 39% by CCl4 administration, but EPB blocked this effect, resulting in enzyme activities at control levels. Expression of cytochromeP450 2E1 (CYP2E1) protein was significantly decreased to 88% in CCl4-treated rats but remained at control levels when EPB was also administered. EPB did not affect the altered fatty acid composition induced by CCl4. The hepatoprotective effect of EPB may be mediated by EPB's prevention of CCl4-induced CYP2E1 degradation.
14969530	An antifungal substance was isolated from the extract of Acorus gramineus using various chromatographic procedures. The antibiotic was identified as beta-asarone, cis-2,4,5-trimethoxy-1-propenylbenzene, on the basis of the high-resolution EI-mass, NMR, and UV spectral data. Beta-asarone completely inhibited mycelial growth of some plant pathogenic fungi, Cladosporium cucumerinum,Colletotrichum orbiculare, Magnaporthe grisea, and Pythium ultimum, in a range of 0.5-30 microg/mL. The growth of Bacillus subtilis, Erwinia carotovora subsp. carotovora, Ralstonia solanacearum, and Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria was slightly suppressed by beta-asarone. As the concentration of beta-asarone increased, M. grisea infection was drastically inhibited on rice leaves. Treatment with 500 microg/mL of beta-asarone also greatly suppressed lesion formation of Co. orbiculare on cucumber leaves. This is the first study to demonstrate in vitro and in vivo antifungal activity of beta-asarone against plant fungal pathogens M. grisea and C. orbiculare.
14971698	Twenty villages in the Anning River Valley of southwestern Sichuan China were surveyed for Schistosoma japonicum infections in humans and domestic animals. Also surveyed were human water contact patterns, snail populations, cercarial risk in irrigation systems, and agricultural land use. Few animals were infected, while village prevalence of infection in humans ranged from 3% to 68% and average village eggs per gram of stool ranged from 0 to 110. Except for occupation and education, individual characteristics were not strong determinants of infection intensity within a village. Differences in human infection intensity between these villages are strongly associated with crop type, with low-intensity villages principally growing rice, in contrast to villages devoting more land to vegetables and tobacco. Cercarial risk in village irrigation systems is associated with snail density and human infection intensity through the use of manure-based fertilizer. Some of the agricultural and environmental factors associated with infection risk can be quantified using remote sensing technology.
14972412	The regional environmental radiological effects were assessed for the past 25-year operation of the Tokai Reprocessing Plant (TRP). The assessment was basically performed with the environmental radiological monitoring data around the TRP. For the environmental monitoring, various kinds of terrestrial and marine samples including air dust, surface soil, polished rice grain, leafy vegetable, milk, seawater, seabed sediments, fish, shellfish and seaweed were collected in the surrounding environment of the TRP. Radionuclides such as (3)H, (14)C, (90)Sr, (137)Cs and (239,240)Pu in the environmental samples were determined by radiochemical methods. However, they showed no significant short-term increase or long-term accumulation of radionuclides discharged from the TRP. Therefore, the public dose was evaluated using the mathematical models and the discharge data of radionuclides. The estimated annual effective dose for the public was about 0.1% of the annual effective dose limit recommended by the ICRP. The assessment showed that there were no significant radiological effects on the environment and the public due to the 25-year operation of the TRP.
14973015	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is a causal agent of bacterial leaf blight of rice. Recently, an efficient hrp-inducing medium, XOM2, was established for this bacterium. In this medium, more than 10 proteins were secreted from the wild-type strain of X. oryzae pv. oryzae. Many of these proteins disappeared or decreased in amount in culture on XOM2 when incubated with the strain that has a mutation in the hrp regulatory gene. Interestingly, the secretory protein profile of a mutant lacking a type III secretion system (TTSS), components of which are encoded by hrp genes, was similar to that of the wild-type strain except that a few proteins had disappeared. This finding suggests that many HrpXo-dependent secretory proteins are secreted via systems other than the TTSS. By isolating mutant strains lacking a type II secretion system, we examined this hypothesis. As expected, many of the HrpXo-dependent secretory proteins disappeared or decreased when the mutant was cultured in XOM2. By determining the N-terminal amino acid sequence, we identified one of the type II secretory proteins as a cysteine protease homolog, CysP2. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed that cysP2 has an imperfect plant-inducible-promoter box, a consensus sequence which HrpXo regulons possess in the promoter region, and a deduced signal peptide sequence at the N terminus. By reverse transcription-PCR analysis and examination of the expression of CysP2 by using a plasmid harboring a cysP2::gus fusion gene, HrpXo-dependent expression of CysP2 was confirmed. Here, we reveal that the hrp regulatory gene hrpXo is also involved in the expression of not only hrp genes and type III secretory proteins but also some type II secretory proteins.
14973342	Here we report the genomic structure including the promoter sequence and coding region of NtPDR1 (Nicotiana tabacum Pleiotropic Drug Resistance 1), which is an elicitor-responsive gene encoding an ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporter that might be involved in the defense response in tobacco, as we reported recently. The NtPDR1 gene consists of 20 exons and 19 introns. Among the introns, the first and fifth are much larger than the others and harbor typical miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs). One of the MITE elements in the first intron, termed NtToya1, belongs to the Toya family that was recently described in rice, while the other element in the fifth intron, termed NtStowaway101, shows high homology with the Stowaway elements of the IS630-Tc1-mariner family. Many of the genes we found to harbor Toya and Stowaway elements in Nicotiana species by BLAST search are also involved in stress responses or plant-pathogen interactions. The existence of putative cis-elements (a GCC box, three W boxes, and several JA-responsive elements) in the promoter region supports our previous finding that this gene is strongly inducible by elicitation and methyljasmonate, and that this ABC transporter might be essential for plant defense responses. Furthermore, Southern blot analysis and PCR amplification of the introns harboring the MITE-like elements from genomic DNA of three Nicotiana species suggests that NtPDR1 originated from N. sylvestris.
14977118	This study investigated the uptake of three macronutrients, including nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K), by rice roots in response to different infestation levels of Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Homoptera: Delphacidae). Hydroponics experiments were conducted on the rice variety 'Zhendao 2' (moderately resistant to Tryporyza incertulas, Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) and the variety 'Xiushui 63' (susceptible to N. lugens). In 'Zhendao 2', N. lugens infestation significantly influenced the uptake of P and K but not N, with P and K uptake decreasing as the duration of N. lugens infestation increased. In 'Xiushui 63', N. lugens infestation influenced N, P, and K uptake to a different degree, depending on the infestation level, in which infestation for 2, 4, 6, and 8 d at a density of 60 nymphs did not affect N uptake, but such infestation levels significantly influenced the uptake of P and K. After the removal of N. lugens from rice plants, the N uptake recovered from infestation faster than that for P and K in the variety 'Zhendao 2', whereas the recovery rate of K uptake was faster than that for N and P in the variety 'Xiushui 63'. The recovery rate of the nutrient uptake was negatively correlated to the density and duration of infestation. The experimental results demonstrated that N, P, and K uptake of rice roots were largely not influenced by N. lugens infestation when the pest density was controlled below 15 nymphs per hill. This infestation level was in agreement with the proposed economic thresholds for control measures against the N. lugens infestation on rice plants.
14977124	Geographic variation in the susceptibility of the striped stem borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), in China to Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) insecticidal crystal proteins Cry1Ac and Cry1Ab was studied to establish baseline information for comparing the future response of populations with increased exposure to Bt products. Rice is the major host of C. suppressalis, and Bt rice ma) be released in China in the near future. Twelve populations of the pest were collected from the major rice-growing regions of China. LC50 estimates were determined for all populations for Cry1Ac and for eight populations for Cry1Ab. The bioassay results indicated that the range of LC50 in neonate larvae to Cry1Ac and Cry1Ab was from approximately 15 to approximately 157 mg (AI)/L and approximately 2 to approximately 34 mg (AI)/L, respectively. LC50 values were lower for Cry1Ab than for Cry1Ac, and there was a significant positive correlation between the two toxins tested.
14977135	A 2-yr study to evaluate Louisiana and Texas sugarcane, Saccharum spp., cultivars for resistance to the Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) was conducted in two locations in Texas, chosen for having different infestation levels. Criteria for assessment of resistance included percentage of bored internodes and adult emergence holes, the latter used to determine the relative impact of each cultivar on the potential areawide buildup or reduction of adult E. loftini populations. A recently released cultivar, HoCP 85-845, seemed to lose a portion of its resistance under heavy E. loftini infestation pressure, suggesting its value only in moderate-to-low infestation conditions. Cultivar CP 70-321 was the most resistant. Results indicated that cultivar LCP 85-384 was significantly (P < 0.05) more susceptible than NCo 310, traditionally the most susceptible cultivar commercially produced in Texas. In 2001, LCP 85-384, which now represents 85% of the production area in Louisiana, had the greatest moth production per hectare (17,052 +/- 3,956) under the lower infestation pressure, significantly (P < 0.05) higher than HoCP 85-845 (3,038 +/- 2,353). In a portion of the test at the high-infestation location, high levels of sodium and magnesium salt stress (15-30-cm soil depth) were associated with higher E. loftini damage in all cultivars except HoCP 91-555 and CP 70-321.
14977136	Antibiosis-based resistance to two insect pests of rice, Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) and Marasmia patnalis Bradley (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), was compared in 11 F1 hybrids and their parental lines. Our objective was to determine whether hybrids show heterosis (hybrid vigor) for insect resistance or susceptibility. Heterosis is defined as the amount by which a hybrid exceeds its midparent value or its better parent. Overall, we did not find evidence of heterosis or heterobeltiosis (a type of heterosis in which a hybrid exceeds its better parent) for antibiosis-based resistance or susceptibility to either of the insects. One hybrid, IR64616H, seemed more resistant to M. patnalis than its better parent but none of the other hybrids showed heterobeltiosis for resistance or susceptibility to either insect. Three hybrids had resistance to N. lugens that exceeded their midparent value, possibly due to dominant resistance in one of the parents. The increased frequency and severity of insect outbreaks on hybrid rice that have been reported in China may be attributable to factors other than diminished antibiosis in hybrids, such as greater attractiveness of hybrids to migrating or dispersing insects or differences in agronomic practices applied to hybrids and inbred rice cultivars.
14977569	Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) is a ubiquitous coenzyme in oxidation-reduction reactions. Recent animal and fungal studies show that it also plays important roles in transcriptional regulation, longevity, and age-associated diseases. NAD is synthesized de novo from aspartic acid in E. coli or from tryptophan in animals, by way of quinolinic acid. Although the number of biochemical studies on NAD is very limited, a bioinformatic search of genome databases suggests that Arabidopsis (dicots) synthesizes NAD from aspartic acid whereas rice (monocots) may utilize both aspartate and tryptophan as starting amino acids. The salvage pathway recycles the breakdown products of NAD metabolism. In tobacco, an intermediate in the de novo NAD synthetic pathway supplies the pyridine ring moiety of nicotine alkaloids. Gene expression studies in tobacco suggest that part of the NAD pathway is coordinately regulated with nicotine biosynthesis.
14978530	Metabonomic screening of human urine samples using 1H NMR spectroscopy has revealed the presence of signals resulting from the excretion of ethyl glucoside. Experiments in volunteers have demonstrated that this ethyl glucoside results from dietary exposure to the compound, which is present in beverages such as rice wine and sake, rather than representing a new route for the metabolism of ethanol by humans. The limited studies undertaken in volunteers indicate that ethyl glucoside has a longer biological half life than ethanol itself. The potential problems associated with using this glucoside metabolite as a marker of ethanol consumption are considered.
14979179	Agriculture represents a very complex scenario that needs proper tools. To this aim, in the frame of Special Project "La Prevenzione nell'impiego di Antiparassitari in Agricoltura" promoted by the Region of Lombardy, profiles of exposure and/or risk have been identified as valid approach able to define particular conditions of exposure and risk for the operator in particular settings. The evaluation necessarily needs to identify the most important parameters affecting exposure and their extent on magnitude of exposure. Therefore, field studies should be further performed in order to confirm and improve the profile. The identification of profiles of exposure and risk is an activity still in progress that need to be carefully set up and standardised. The team involved in the study identified priorities deserving much attention in Lombardy, and planned a three years programme aimed at define the profile of exposure and risk in viticulture, maize crop, rice growing, nursery gardening, horticulture in greenhouses, maintenance of gardens, and poplar growing.
14979561	The ash, silica and certain important micronutrients were estimated in conventional and unconventional feed and fodder resources available in Southern India. Commonly used dry roughages, such as paddy straw, ragi straw, maize kadbi/stalk, jowar kadbi/stalk, bajra stalk and wheat straw, were high in ash (9.9% +/- 0.77%) and silica (6.4% +/- 0.65%) and low in most of the other micronutrients, except iron, with paddy straw containing most silica (>9%). Cultivated non-leguminous (maize, jowar) and improved green crops (hybrid napier, guinea, green panic, NB-21, CO-1) were also high in ash (10.5% +/- 0.60% and 12.5% +/- 0.51%) but were moderate sources of P, Mg and Cu and good sources of Zn (98 +/- 13.8 ppm and 55 +/- 6.7 ppm). Leguminous green fodders (stylosanthus, lucerne, cow pea, soyabean) were excellent sources of Ca (1.9% +/- 0.16%), Mg (0.40% +/- 0.05%), Cu (30 +/- 5.2 ppm), Zn (121 +/- 14.7 ppm) and Fe (1234 +/- 166 ppm) and moderate sources of P. Mixed local grasses and weeds were high in silica (6.9% +/- 1.00%) but were good sources of Cu, Zn and Fe. Cereal grains (maize, wheat, rice, ragi) were low in ash (2.9% +/- 0.33%) and were relatively poor sources of Ca (0.22% +/- 0.03%), Mg (0.19% +/- 0.03%) and Cu (13 +/- 3.1 ppm). Pulses were low to medium sources of most minerals and good sources of Fe (1230 +/- 293 ppm). Oil seed cake/extractions (groundnut cake, cotton seed cake, soyabean meal, sunflower cake, safflower cake) and cereal by-products (rice polish, rice bran, wheat bran) were excellent sources of P (1.1% +/- 0.47% and 2.3% +/- 0.19%) and good sources of Zn (65 +/- 3.9 ppm and 66 +/- 10.7 ppm) and Fe (938 +/- 130 ppm and 662 +/- 126 ppm). Among the unconventional feeds screened, orange peel, sunflower heads, meat meal, rubber seed cake, spirulina algae and sea weeds contained plentiful Ca, Zn and Fe: tree leaves/top feeds (mulberry, erythrina, glyricidia, banana, subabul, groundnut haulms) were excellent sources of Ca (1.5% +/- 0.13%), Zn (120 +/- 22.9 ppm) and Fe (1033 +/- 133 ppm) but relatively poor sources of P. Soyabean husk, cocoa seed husk, rubber seed cake and meat meal were moderate to good sources of P (1.0% and 0.33%). The high Zn and Fe values of most feeds/fodders were probably due to soil contamination. This account of the micronutrient content of feed/fodder resources should help in strategic supplementation intended to alleviate local deficiencies.
14981285	Sterile Ulva, which is a macroalga, has the potential to grow stably; therefore, this seaweed is expected to be an efficient resource of functional food containing various nutrients such as sulfur amino acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and minerals. Ulva latuca was selected from the "Marine Park" in Tokyo Bay, and its growth rate (g-dry/[m2.d]) was measured using model reactors located on the land or on the surface of the sea at Yokohama. The growth rate of U. lactuca was recorded to be approx 20 g-dry/(m2.d), which is estimated to be 10 times greater than that in a natural field in the Marine Park. In addition, this growth rate was higher than that of conventional crops such as corn and rice on a farm or paddy. These data led us to newly design and propose a floating type of labor-efficient U. lactuca production system. d-Cysteinolic acid, which is included in U. lactuca as a major sulfur amino acid, inhibited the Fenton reaction, resulting in suppression of hydroxyl radical production and singlet oxygen. Addition of the sulfur amino acid (1 microM) to HepG2 cells markedly decreased the intracellular triglyceride level. Hence, this proposed facility also has the potential for industrial production of a valuable resource for the primary prevention of lifestyle-related diseases using enriched or eutrophied seawater.
14981313	Effects of pre-germinated brown rice (PGBR) on streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were studied. The feeding of a PGBR diet to diabetic rats ameliorated the elevation of blood glucose and PAI-1 concentrations significantly, and tended to decrease the plasma lipid peroxide concentrations in comparison with rats fed a white rice diet. These results suggest that intake of PGBR instead of white rice is effective for the prevention of diabetic vascular complications.
14981656	Herbivorous insects fed plants expressing proteinase inhibitors (PIs) compensate for the loss of digestive proteolytic functions by producing novel proteinases. We assessed here whether such compensatory responses represent a general, non-specific adaptation to defense-related proteins in host plant tissues, or if distinct responses occur depending on the stress exerted on the plant. As a model, growth, development, and digestive proteases of the Colorado potato beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata Say) were monitored after feeding larvae with plants pre-treated with either methyl jasmonate or arachidonic acid, two compounds inducing different sets of defense genes in potato. In brief, larvae fed plants treated with jasmonate or arachidonate were negatively affected compared to larvae fed non-treated plants, suggesting the potency of both molecules to induce partial resistance to potato beetles in potato. On the other hand, larvae fed treated plants partially compensated for the presence of defense-related proteins by adapting their digestive proteolytic system, both quantitatively and qualitatively. These compensatory processes varied depending on the treatment, the larvae fed arachidonate-treated plants showing the most dramatic response. Compensation to jasmonate and arachidonate was also influenced by a cysteine PI from rice expressed in the plant, pointing out the possible indirect effects of recombinant defense proteins on naturally-occurring plant-insect interactions. These observations, while showing the potential of jasmonate and arachidonate as inducers of partial resistance to the potato beetle in potato, also suggest that digestive compensation in herbivorous insects is determined, at least in part, by defense-related compounds found in the plant in response to different stress stimuli or as a result of ectopic expression in transgenic plants.
14982474	Dynamics of an endothermic proton-transfer reaction, F(-) with dimethyl sulfoxide, and an endothermic proton-transfer reaction with a competing exothermic substitution (S(N)2) channel, F(-) with borane-methyl sulfide complex, were investigated using a Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer (FT-ICR) and kinetic modeling. The two proton-transfer reactions have slightly positive and a small negative overall free energy changes, respectively. Energy-dependent rate constants were measured as a function of F(-) ion translational energy, and the resulting kinetics were modeled with the RRKM (Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus) theory. The observed rate constants for the proton-transfer reactions of F(-) with dimethyl sulfoxide and with borane-methyl sulfide complex are identical, with a value of 0.17 x 10(-9) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1); for the S(N)2 reaction, k = 0.90 x 10(-9) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1) at 350 K. Both proton-transfer reactions have positive entropy changes in the forward direction and show positive energy dependences. The competing S(N)2 reaction exhibits negative energy dependence and becomes less important at higher energies. The changes of the observed rate constants agree with RRKM theory predictions for a few kcal/mol of additional kinetic energy. The dynamic change of the branching ratio for the competing proton transfer and the substitution reactions results from the competition between the microscopic rate constants associated with each channel.
14982972	We collected and completely sequenced 32,127 full-length complementary DNA clones from Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica cv. "Nipponbare." Mapping of these clones to genomic DNA revealed approximately 20,500 transcriptional units (TUs) in the rice genome. For each TU, we selected 60-mers using an algorithm that took into account some DNA conditions such as base composition and sequence complexity. Using in situ synthesis technology, we constructed oligonucleotide arrays with these TUs on glass slides. We targeted RNAs prepared from normally grown rice callus and from callus treated with abscisic acid (ABA) or gibberellin (GA). We identified 200 ABA-responsive and 301 GA-responsive genes, many of which had never before been annotated as ABA or GA responsive in other expression analysis. Comparison of these genes revealed antagonistic regulation of almost all by both hormones; these had previously been annotated as being responsible for protein storage and defense against pathogens. Comparison of the cis-elements of genes responsive to one or antagonistic to both hormones revealed that the antagonistic genes had cis-elements related to ABA and GA responses. The genes responsive to only one hormone were rich in cis-elements that supported ABA and GA responses. In a search for the phenotypes of mutants in which a retrotransposon was inserted in these hormone-responsive genes, we identified phenotypes related to seed formation or plant height, including sterility, vivipary, and dwarfism. In comparison of cis-elements for hormone response genes between rice and Arabidopsis thaliana, we identified cis-elements for dehydration-stress response as Arabidopsis specific and for protein storage as rice specific.
14984043	The evolutionary history of morphological structures generally is equated with that of the taxa that carry them. It is argued here that, analogous to genes, developmental genetic pathways underlying morphological structures may be subject to developmental evolutionary changes that result, for instance, in duplication (serial homology analogous to gene duplication and paralogy). Entities that undergo evolution are expected to be related to each other as a tree. Just as with molecular evolution, "structure trees" and species trees sometimes may be incongruent, with implications for morphological homology concepts. Detection of structure trees through morphological evolutionary analyses may point to an entity that is maintained through evolution, possibly in part because it is a developmentally integrated structure ("individualized"). This idea is illustrated in a morphological evolutionary analysis of leaf primordia. These analyses suggest that leaf primordia in monocots and close relatives are related to each other as a tree and, therefore, are developmentally integrated, evolving entities. Among monocot primordia this tree structure breaks down, and it is concluded that there is no entity, the "monocot leaf primordium." However, one group of primordia is identified within monocots that have uniform characteristics and that are well represented by model species maize and rice. Such analyses of structure trees can facilitate the extrapolation and interpretation of results from molecular developmental and other comparative studies.
14985019	Cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB)-modified mesoporous molecular sieve FSM-16, prepared by a hydrothermal process (373 K, 3 days), was tested as an adsorbent for acid dye (acid yellow, AY, and acid blue, AB) removal in comparison with as-prepared FSM-16 and activated carbon (AC) derived from rice husk (50 vol% H3PO4, 773 K, 2.5 h). The adsorption isotherms, sorption kinetics, and pH effects upon acid dyes sorption on the adsorbents were thoroughly investigated. The structures of different adsorbents were characterized by XRD, FTIR spectroscopy, N2 adsorption measurements, and thermogravimetric (TG) analysis. It was found that the ultimate capacity of the adsorbents varied in the order FSM-16 > modified FSM-16 > AC and followed first-order rate kinetics. The adsorption isotherm of acid dyes on FSM-16 is of type IV, according to the IUPAC classification, drastically different from that of CTAB/FSM-16, which showed a type I isotherm. The latter sample had better adsorption performance at low concentration of acid dyes than the former. As compared to activated carbon of microporous character, the CTAB/FSM-16 sample achieved higher performance at low concentrations. This was due to the successful narrowing of the pore opening of FSM-16 using CTAB with maintenance of a considerable portion of the pore volume. Powder XRD and N2 adsorption studies of the CTAB/FSM-16 material indicated that the textural properties of the support were preserved during the hydrothermal synthesis and that the channels remained accessible, despite a significant reduction in surface area (ca. 26%). TG studies, on the other hand, confirmed that the modified material presented a higher hydrophobicity than that of the CTAB-free FSM-16 sample.
14985186	A fluorimetric method was used to determine the o-phthaldialdehyde (OPA) reactivity of amino groups for the assessment of non-enzymatic browning reactions in products with a prolonged shelf-life. The studies were conducted in four commercial infant cereals: wheat-based '7-cereals' and '8-cereals', and gluten-free 'rice cereal' and 'rice-corn cereal'. The cereals were monitored at 28 degrees C for 4 or 16 weeks, or under high water activity (0.65) conditions at 25 degrees C or 55 degrees C for 1, 2, 3 or 4 weeks. OPA reactivity gradually decreased during storage under all temperature, time and water activity conditions, with especially marked losses under conditions of greatest heat intensity and high water activity. According to the present results, the determination of OPA reactivity offers a simple, rapid and reliable method to evaluate non-enzymatic browning.
14985975	In floating rice, stem elongation begins much earlier than in non-floating rice, which is the major survival mechanism for flooding. Inheritance of this early elongation ability was studied using diallel and quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses. The diallel analysis was undertaken using a set of 6x6 half-diallel crosses involving four floating ("Goai", "Habiganj Aman VIII", "Badal 106", and Oryza rufipogon strain W120) and two non-floating ("Latisail" and "Patnai 23") parents. The additive gene effects were higher than the dominant effects. The dominant alleles were concentrated in the cultivated floating parents (("Goai", "Habiganj Aman VIII", "Badal 106"), whereas the recessive alleles were in the wild floating parent (W120). A QTL analysis using a "Patnai 23" x "Goai" F(2) population detected two putative QTLs. Of these QTLs, the one on chromosome 12 behaved as a partially dominant major gene that explained more than half of the total genetic variation.
14985976	The complete sequence of Musa acuminata bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones is presented and, consequently, the first analysis of the banana genome organization. One clone (MuH9) is 82,723 bp long with an overall G+C content of 38.2%. Twelve putative protein-coding sequences were identified, representing a gene density of one per 6.9 kb, which is slightly less than that previously reported for Arabidopsis but similar to rice. One coding sequence was identified as a partial M. acuminata malate synthase, while the remaining sequences showed a similarity to predicted or hypothetical proteins identified in genome sequence data. A second BAC clone (MuG9) is 73,268 bp long with an overall G+C content of 38.5%. Only seven putative coding regions were discovered, representing a gene density of only one gene per 10.5 kb, which is strikingly lower than that of the first BAC. One coding sequence showed significant homology to the soybean ribonucleotide reductase (large subunit). A transition point between coding regions and repeated sequences was found at approximately 45 kb, separating the coding upstream BAC end from its downstream end that mainly contained transposon-like sequences and regions similar to known repetitive sequences of M. acuminata. This gene organization resembles Gramineae genome sequences, where genes are clustered in gene-rich regions separated by gene-poor DNA containing abundant transposons.
14986359	Field and water tank plot experiments were conducted in Zhejiang Province in 1999 to determine the effects of nitrogen application amount and times on rice growth and yield, and rice growth simulation model ORYZA-0 and nitrogen management module were used to establish a modified nitrogen effect-rice growth model. The simulated results presented a higher positive relationship with the measured results. According to the simulated and measured results, 160 kg.hm-2 was the economic nitrogen application amount for two rice varieties production, and the nitrogen application strategies were: 1) < 100 kg.hm-2 nitrogen fertilizer should be applied within 35 days after transplanting; 2) when the nitrogen application level was between 100-200 kg.hm-2, it should be applied within 45 days after transplanting; 3) if the nitrogen application amount exceeded 200 kg.hm-2, it should be put into paddy field within 60 days after transplanting; 4) as the nitrogen application amount increased, the nitrogen supply at the later rice growth stage should be increased. As for the second cropping rice, the more times the nitrogen applied in the field, the more closeness the rice yield reached the APCUM curve(optimized nitrogen curve) suggested. But in real rice production, it is impossible for farmers to adopt more times of N applying, since labor and cost will increase. Based on the experimental parameters and real rice production situation, the reasonable nitrogen application under 160 kg.hm-2 levels for high yielding second cropping rice was split into 4 times with fraction 0.2:0.3:0.3:0.2 at 5, 20, 30, 40 days after transplanting. The rice yield could reach 5,916 kg.hm-2, resulted in a 3.12% increase as compared with the yield under actual fertilizer application amount and timing.
14986361	Three paddy soils with higher content of fixed ammonium in Hunan Province were used as test soils in pot experiment to study the seasonal variation of their fixed ammonium content and its bioavailability during rice growth period. The results showed that the fixed ammonium content in the paddy soils changed constantly during rice growth. Applying N fertilizer and organic manure increased the fixed ammonium content, which was decreased through the N uptake by rice plants. The recently fixed ammonium was almost fully available to rice, while the native fixed ammonium was partly available. The release of fixed ammonium during rice growth was newly alluvial sandy soil > purple clayey soil > alluvial sandy soil, and was greater a early growth stage than at later growth stage.
14986366	The searching for a proper land reclamation and utilization method adapted to the regional natural conditions and economical level is a prime subject in the waterlogged area of Southern China. Choosing a dish-like micro-zone, one of the typical waterlogged areas deprived from a reclaimed lake as the studying region, its biophysical characteristics and developmental models was investigated, aiming at making a comprehensive development plan to this area. The results showed that with the successive change in altitude across the sector of the land, the soil type, soil profile structure, underground water level, and soil temperature were characterized by five step divergence steps. The analysis on the site and area of the individual divergences showed that the low land was unsuitable for rice planting, and the land between upland and paddy should be increased for rotation and needed to be reclaimed better. After an engineering consolidation to the land, the original five divergence steps were rehabilitated into four steps, and a utilization model of "development in a step way" focused on comprehensively agricultural development and improvement in farming systems was developed, which leaded to a great advance in economic profit of this area.
14986381	This paper dealt with the effects of honey, corn pollen, soybean flower, and honeydews excreted by Nilaparavatae lugens and Toya spp. on the longevity and parasitic ability of A. nilaparvatae. The results showed that the longevity of A. nilaparvatae was obviously extended, and its egg production on N. lugens was significantly increased when fed with those nutrient-rich diets except the honeydew excreted by Toya spp. Corn pollen and the honeydew excreted by N. lugens worked only in the forms of pollen (water and honeydew) water. The longevity of N. lugens was not affected by its parasitic behaviors, but its survival rate was higher within 40-48 hours, and then decreased rapidly. About ten species of plant hopper, the host of Anagrus spp., were found in non-rice habitats, which provided shelter and afforded foods to the parasitoids of rice pests, and contributed to protecting the natural enemies and enhancing the biological control in the rice system.
14986383	Cropping systems influence nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions from agricultural soils. Effects of 3 rice-based cropping systems on N2O emissions from paddy soils in pot experiment were investigated with closed chambers in triplicate. The results demonstrated that the seasonal N2O emission rate of the rice pot under rice-wheat cropping system was obviously higher than that of the early rice pot under double rice-wheat system, being 4.21 and 2.17 kg.hm-2, respectively. No distinct difference was observed between the seasonal average fluxes, which were 116.9 and 117.6 micrograms.m-2.h-1 respectively. Both of above mentioned seasonal average fluxes were greatly higher than that of the late rice pot under early rice-late rice-wheat cropping system and of rice pot under rice-flooding fallow system, being 67.0 and 42.1 micrograms.m-2.h-1 respectively. More than 91% of the seasonal emission was focused on the first half growing period both in the rice season in rice-wheat system and in the early rice season in double rice-wheat system in which the previous cropping was upland wheat. 91% of the seasonal emission was focused on the water drainage period including the mid-season aeration and final drainage in the late rice season in double rice-wheat system in which the previous cropping was lowland rice. The results implied that cropping system and water status of previous cropping impacted N2O emission from paddy soil.
14986429	A DH population containing 81 DH lines from an indica-japonica cross of rice and an RFLP linkage map consisting of 232 markers were used to map quantitative trait loci(QTLs) for harvest index, biomass, grain yield, sink capacity and plant height by a computer program QTLMapper1.0 based on mixed linear models. A total of 21 significant main-effect QTLs and 9 pairs of epistatic loci were detected. Of these, three detected QTLs for grain yield collectively accounted for 42% of the phenotypic variation with a LOD of 7.10. These three grain yield QTLs were corresponded either to QTLs for harvest index or QTLs for biomass in both locations and directions of additive effects, which sheds light on the genetic basis of the formula 'grain yield = biomass x harvest index'. Four detected QTLs for harvest index collectively explained 46% of the total phenotypic variation and four QTLs for biomass jointly accounted for 64% of the trait variation. No coincidence of harvest index QTLs with any biomass QTLs was found, therefore indicating the possibility of pyramiding favorable alleles for both traits through gene recombination so as to obtain a genotype possessing both high harvest index and heavy plant biomass. Five QTLs for plant height were detected that cumulatively explained 64% of the phenotypic variation with a LOD of 11.62. Among these, three with smaller effects respectively co-located with some of the QTLs for biomass, sink capacity and/or grain yield, but not with any of harvest index QTLs, thus suggesting that plant height was to some extent directly associated with 'source' and 'sink' but not with 'transportation' of the 'source-transportation-sink' concept, at least in this genetic background and environment. In view of a somewhat low resolution of the genetic map used in the study and the fact that when plant height QTLs co-located with those for yield and/or yield related traits, these co-located QTLs were all in the same directions of additive effects, it is more likely that these QTLs co-located in a same chromosomal region might be a single QTL which have effects on multiple traits. If this is true, the above observation have led us to assume that QTLs which have pleotropic effects on yield and/or yield related traits and plant height are very different from those which had relatively large effects only on plant height. The former contribute strongly to yield and/or yield related traits but weakly to plant height while the later contribute mainly to plant height. Obviously, due to that an increase of plant height is always coupled with an increase in lodging susceptibility, discriminating between above two types of QTLs is critical in breaking the traits' undesired association in breeding for improved yield potential of rice. In addition, based on the co-location analysis of main-effect QTLs for the studied traits, five genomic regions were found to be highly associated with harvest index, biomass, sink capacity and grain yield.
14986430	Mapping of QTLs controlling chrolophyll content was conducted with the method of multiple-trait composite interval mapping, based on a recombinant inbred (RI) population consisting of 131 lines (F10) derived from a cross between two indica rice varieties, Acc8558 and H359, and on a corresponding genetic map comprising 147 RFLP and 78 AFLP markers. Six QTLs for contents of chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b were detected, respectively. Among them, five QTLs were the same between the two characters. These QTLs were mainly distributed on chromosomes 1 and 4, indicating that the two chromosomes were more important for chlorophyll content. qChlA1c and qChlB1b (these two QTLs were mapped at the same location) showed relatively large effects at all the four observation times and showed the largest effects at the sword leaf period. Another two QTLs (qChlA4a/qChlB4a and qChlA4b/qChlB4b) exhibited significant effects only at the second observation time, suggesting that they might act only at specific developmental stages.
14986431	By employing a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population of 247 lines derived from an inidca-indica cross Zhenshan 97B x Milyang 46, a linkage map consisting of 158 DNA markers was constructed and used for the determination of QTLs conditioning five leaf traits and root exudates. The leaf traits analyzed were leaf area, leaf length, leaf width, leaf perimeter and leaf length/width ratio measured on top first leaf, top second and top third leaves. The RIL population showed transgressive segregation on each trait, and highly significant or significant positive correlations were observed between all traits except between leaf length and width, and between leaf perimeter and length/width ratio. A total of 24 QTLs located in 9 intervals were detected to have significant additive effects for leaf traits analyzed, with LOD scores ranging 2.9-11.8 and 4.0%-32.5% phenotypic variation explained for a single QTL. Clustering of QTLs for leaf traits was evident. In interval RM197-RZ516 on chromosome 6, 2 QTLs for leaf length, 2 QTLs for leaf width and 3 QTLs for leaf length/width ratio of different leaves were detected, among which the alleles for increasing trait values were from Zhenshan 97B for leaf length and leaf length/width ratio, and from Milyang 46 for leaf width. In interval RM1-RG532 on chromosome 1,2 QTLs for leaf length and 2 QTLs for leaf perimeter were detected on top first leaf and top second leaf, respectively, and all the alleles for increasing trait values were from Milyang 46. In this interval, larger additive effects were observed for QTLs detected on top first leaf than at top second leaf. In interval RZ667-B10B on chromosome 6, a QTL for leaf perimeter of top second leaf was detected, accounting for 8.0% phenotypic variation. In intervals RZ66-RM264 and RG81-RM313 on chromosome 8 and 12, each QTL was detected for leaf length of top third leaf and explained for 9.0% and 15.3% phenotypic variation, respectively. Epistasis analysis detected 56 and 4 significant additive-by-additive interactions for leaf traits and root vitality, explaining 2.7% to 13.7% and 6.8% to 14.9% of the total phenotypic variation, respectively. On comparison with QTLs for yield traits detected in the same population previously, it was found that the majority of QTLs for leaf traits and root vitality and those for yield traits were located in similar intervals. Fine mapping of QTLs for both leaf and yield traits in these chromosomal regions would facilitate investigations of the source-sink relationship in rice.
14986896	Dissolved copper was toxic to wild rice (Zizania palustris) seedlings when exposed in water from the seed collection site of Swamp Creek, Crandon, Wisconsin, USA, and in laboratory-prepared artificial or reconstituted water. Seeds for the study were harvested, then held through a portion of dormancy, in Swamp Creek. After 60 days they were shipped to a laboratory, chilled, and tested with copper after germination. The end point of the tests was net gain in wet weight of the seedlings; additionally, a pronounced reduction in root development was observed. Using measured concentrations, the lowest no-observable-effect concentration (NOEC) in our study was 37 microg/liter in Swamp Creek water and the lowest-observable-effect concentration (LOEC) was 59 microg/liter. However, it appeared that there was a point at which concentrations of copper above 400 microg/liter did not result in any measurable effect or exhibit a definitive dose-response. Because the results in Swamp Creek water were more relevant to the possibility of local metals additions and the association of reduced seedling growth by copper was more powerful in this water, we derived an equation to express the relationship between copper concentration and toxicity for Swamp Creek water. As an example, we would expect a 3.0% reduction in seedling growth at 5.0 microg/liter copper. Seedling roots were particularly affected and the resultant plants may be less well anchored and more susceptible to dislodging than plants not exposed to copper. Further refinement of the methodology may be used to address effects of other contaminants impacting rice beds in North America.
14987870	Arsenic contaminating groundwater in Bangladesh is one of the largest environmental health hazards in the world. Because of the potential risk to human health through consumption of agricultural produce grown in fields irrigated with arsenic contaminated water, we have determined the level of contamination in 100 samples of crop, vegetables and fresh water fish collected from three different regions in Bangladesh. Arsenic concentrations were determined by hydride generation atomic absorption spectrophotometry. All 11 samples of water and 18 samples of soil exceeded the expected limits of arsenic. No samples of rice grain (Oryza sativa L.) had arsenic concentrations more than the recommended limit of 1.0 mg/kg. However, rice plants, especially the roots had a significantly higher concentration of arsenic (2.4 mg/kg) compared to stem (0.73 mg/kg) and rice grains (0.14 mg/kg). Arsenic contents of vegetables varied; those exceeding the food safety limits included Kachu sak (Colocasia antiquorum) (0.09-3.99 mg/kg, n=9), potatoes (Solanum tuberisum) (0.07-1.36 mg/kg, n=5), and Kalmi sak (Ipomoea reptoms) (0.1-1.53 mg/kg, n=6). Lata fish (Ophicephalus punctatus) did not contain unacceptable levels of arsenic. These results indicate that arsenic contaminates some food items in Bangladesh. Further studies with larger samples are needed to demonstrate the extent of arsenic contamination of food in Bangladesh.
14988479	A search of the recently completed genomic database of rice (Oryza sativa) identified a 29-member xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase (OsXTH) gene family. This first report of a complete XTH family from a monocotyledonous species reveals that the OsXTH family is comparable in size with that of the dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana, which consists of 33 AtXTH genes. This is surprising because xyloglucan, the specific substrate of XTHs, is considerably less abundant in cell walls of monocotyledons than dicotyledons and is not typically ascribed an important structural role in monocotyledons. As a first step toward determining the roles of rice XTHs, the expression patterns of all 29 OsXTH genes were examined using a quantitative DNA microarray procedure with gene-specific oligonucleotide probes. The analysis showed that most members of the rice XTH family exhibited organ- and growth stage-specific expression. This was confirmed by quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis of representative OsXTH members. This revealed in more detail the temporally and spatially controlled expression profiles of individual OsXTH genes at particular sites in rice. Previous reports indicated that grasses have relatively greater xyloglucan endotransglucosylase activities, one of the two enzyme activities catalyzed by XTHs, than in equivalent tissues in dicotyledons. This observation, together with the tissue-specific and growth stage-dependent expression of a large rice XTH gene family, suggests that xyloglucan metabolism plays a more central role in monocotyledon cell wall restructuring than has been reported previously.
14988482	Allene oxide synthase (AOS) is a key enzyme for the biosynthesis of jasmonic acid (JA). We identified four AOS gene homologs, named OsAOS1-4, in the database of a japonica rice genome and cloned a full-length cDNA of OsAOS1. The analysis of deduced amino acid sequences indicated that only OsAOS1 has a chloroplast transit peptide among all the identified monocot AOSs including OsAOSs. We found that the transcripts of OsAOS1 and OsAOS4 are up-regulated by red and far-red light in seedling shoots. The response in OsAOS1 transcripts occurred rapidly and transiently, while the response in OsAOS4 transcripts was slower and more sustainable; the maximal enhancement was greater in OsAOS1 transcripts than in OsAOS4 transcripts. The transcript of OsAOS1 was also up-regulated transiently in response to wounding, as reported for dicot AOSs. No wound-induced enhancement occurred, however, in OsAOS4 transcripts. Our results also indicated that OsAOS1, responding to both light and wounding, is the most highly expressed of all the OsAOSs in seedling shoots. By using phyA mutants of rice, it was demonstrated that the photoregulation of the AOS transcript level is mediated by phytochrome. It is suggested that this transcriptional photoregulation participates in the phytochrome-mediated inhibition of rice coleoptile growth.
14988485	We examined the function and intracellular localization of the product of the Na(+)/H(+) antiporter gene (OsNHX1) cloned from rice (Oryza sativa). OsNHX1 has the ability to suppress Na(+), Li(+) and hygromycin sensitivity of yeast nhx1 mutants and sensitivity to a high K(+) concentration, a novel phenotype of the nhx1 mutants. Analysis using rice cells expressing a fusion protein of OsNHX1 and green fluorescent protein and Western blot analysis using antibodies specific for OsNHX1 confirmed the localization of OsNHX1 on the tonoplasts. These results indicate that the OsNHX1 gene encodes a vacuolar (Na(+), K(+))/H(+) antiporter. Treatment with high concentrations of NaCl and KCl increased the transcript levels of OsNHX1 in rice roots and shoots. In addition, overexpression of OsNHX1 improved the salt tolerance of transgenic rice cells and plants. These results suggest that OsNHX1 on the tonoplasts plays important roles in the compartmentation of Na(+) and K(+) highly accumulated in the cytoplasm into the vacuoles, and the amount of the antiporter is one of the most important factors determining salt tolerance in rice.
14988641	Severe iron deficiency is a major nutritional problem encountered throughout the world. We assessed the effect of a conventionally bred, high-iron rice variety on plasma iron, hemoglobin, and red blood cell variables of early-weaned piglets during a 33-day feeding trial. 26-day-old male piglets were assigned to 3 treatment groups: group 1 = low-iron rice + low-iron supplementary feed; group 2 = high-iron rice + low-iron supplementary feed, and group 3 = low-iron rice + high-iron supplementary feed. Plasma iron, hemoglobin and red blood cell variables were measured on days 8, 16, 23, 30, and 33. Feed intake and weight gain were not significantly different between study groups. No significant differences in the iron-related parameters analyzed were found between the piglets of groups 1 and 2, except in red blood cells. Modifications regarding study design, study duration and subject's growth rate are recommended to increase the possibility of detecting changes in the iron status triggered by diets having small differences in dietary iron.
14989353	Between 1983 and 1999, 27 human cases of scrub typhus (two fatal) occurred in the Nodagawa River basin of northern Kyoto, Japan, an area where no cases had been previously reported. Antibody screening of infected patients' sera showed that nine of 15 patients had high titers against the Gilliam type of Orientia tsutsugamushi (Hayashi). To determine the vector mite transmitting the disease, we studied rodent and chigger populations in and near a rice field alongside the Nodagawa River between 1996 and 1999. The most common rodent species was Microtus montebelli (Milne-Edwards), representing 73.3% (33/45) of the population. The mite index (average number of mites per infested host) was highest (190.8) in Leptotrombidium pallidum Nagayo, Mitamura & Tamiya parasitizing on M. montebelli, followed by Leptotrombidium intermedium (Nagayo, Mitamura & Tamiya) (174.9) on the same host species. Orientia tsutsugamushi was isolated from 60.5% (23/38) of rodents and from 71.2% (37/52) of pools of engorged L. pallidum. The Gilliam type of O. tsutsugamushi was most prevalent in rodents, and in engorged L. pallidum and it was the only type recovered from 10 isolates inoculated into L 929 cells for indirect immunofluorescence examination. Orientia tsutsugamushi infected 14.3% (181/1263) and 14.8% (306/2066) of engorged and unfed L. pallidum larvae, respectively, and was also detected in 0.055% (2/3634) of unfed L. intermedium, although previous studies suggest that this mite rarely bites humans. These results show that L. pallidum is the primary vector species of scrub typhus in this new endemic area in Japan.
14989398	Lipid transfer protein (LTP), the major allergen in Rosaceae in geographic areas where the prevalence of birch pollen allergy is low, is a widely cross-reacting pan-allergen, but the pattern of cross-reactivity to plant-derived foods botanically unrelated to Rosaceae shows much variability. To examine the relationship between peach LTP specific IgE levels and cross-reactivity to several non-Rosaceae, plant-derived foods. IgE specific for peach LTP was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in serum samples from 40 patients with Rosaceae allergy monosensitized to LTP. Patients were considered monosensitized to this protein in the absence of sensitization to other cross-reacting, plant-derived foods as shown by negative skin prick test (SPT) results with both birch and mugwort pollen. SPTs with commercial extracts of walnut, hazelnut, peanut, celery, maize, rice, tomato, orange, and onion were performed to detect possible immunologic cross-reactivity to these foods. Patients with negative SPT results with non-Rosaceae foods showed significantly lower levels of IgE to peach LTP than patients showing skin reactivity to one or more non-Rosaceae foods (P < .001). A significant difference in specific IgE to peach LTP between patients with positive or negative SPT results was observed with each individual food (P < .001 in all cases). The level of IgE to peach LTP was strongly related to the number of positive SPT results with non-Rosaceae foods (r = 0.78; P < .001). Increasing levels of IgE to peach LTP were associated with skin reactivity to nuts (29/40 [72%]), peanut (27/40 [67%]), maize (16/39 [41%]), rice (14/39 [36%]), onion (13/37 [35%]), orange (9/32 [28%]), celery (11/40 [27%]), and tomato (8/39 [20%]). This study suggests that all allergenic determinants in LTP from vegetable foods other than peach cross-react with peach LTP determinants, whereas only some peach LTP epitopes cross-react with allergenic determinants on botanically unrelated, plant-derived foods. The high levels of IgE to peach LTP seem to reflect the presence of IgE targeting common allergenic determinants of LTP, causing cross-reactivity to botanically unrelated, vegetable foods. In LTP-allergic patients, increasing levels of IgE to peach LTP are paralleled by an increasing number of foods other than Rosaceae positive on SPT that cause clinical symptoms.
14989480	A quantitative matrix solid-phase dispersion and liquid chromatography-atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry (LC-APCI-MS) method is outlined for the simultaneous analysis of dithiocarbamates (DTCs) and their degradation products in plants. Compounds analyzed are dazomet, disulfiram, thiram and the metabolites ethylenthiourea and propylenthiourea. The performance of two different sample preparation protocols, the proposed one and other based on solid-phase extraction, as well as, of both atmospheric pressure ionization sources, APCI and electrospray, were compared. The effect of several parameters on the extraction, separation and detection was studied. Dithiocarbamates and metabolites were dispersed with carbograph, eluted with a mixture of dichloromethane-methanol, and then, identified by monitoring the base peak of the spectra corresponding to [M + H]+. The method was validated for avocados, cherries, lemons, nuts, oat, oranges, peaches, rice and tomatoes. Average recoveries varied from 33 to 109%, and relative standard deviation were between 4 and 21% with limits of quantification ranged from 0.25 to 2.5 mg kg(-1), except for thiram and disulfiram, which were not recovered from fruits with high acid content. The procedure was applied to the determination of DTCs and their metabolites in fruits, vegetables and cereals taken from different markets of Valencia, Spain.
14989641	We developed a new and simple method to collect sections of a whole brown rice kernel for investigation of histological properties. A single kernel of rice was dehydrated through a graded ethanol series, transferred to xylene, and embedded in paraffin. During sectioning of the blocks using a rotary microtome, we used a special adhesive tape to collect and place the sections on slides so they remained flat. The use of the adhesive tape technique combined with autofluorescence characteristics allowed us to visualize cell walls throughout an entire longitudinal or transverse section of a whole rice kernel. We obtained scanning electron microscopy images of the sections to determine section quality.
14990267	Dietary intake patterns and socioeconomic variables are well-known indicators for assessing the nutrition status of a society. The Khasi society is matrilineal, and women play an important role in the tribal community, especially with respect to family nutrition. We investigated the existing food habits, beliefs, and trends contributing to the nutrition and health of these women. Nutrient intakes and food sources were studied in 650 Khasi tribal women older than 18 y. Personal interviews using the questionnaire method, 24-h dietary recall method, and food-frequency method were used to elicit information. Respondents were allocated to a low-income group (LIG) or high-income group (HIG). Within these groups, subjects were further classified as non-pregnant and non-lactating (NPNL), pregnant (P), or lactating (L). The dietary pattern was based on rice and cereals (392.48 +/- 13.81 g/d), flesh foods (21.51 +/- 8.63 g/d), green leafy vegetables (110.37 +/- 3.32 g/d), fruits (20.3 +/- 2.10 g/d), and roots and tubers (54.43 +/- 2.92 g/d). Consumption of energy, protein, iron, and vitamin C were adequate except in L women in whom energy levels were significantly lower than the recommended daily allowance in the LIG (2187 +/- 111.12 g/d), protein levels in the LIG (60.85 +/- 4.48 g/d) and the HIG (66.96 +/- 2.99 g/d), iron levels in the LIG (13.64 +/- 1.63), and vitamin C levels in the LIG (66.55 +/- 6.55). Iron intake also was significantly lower in P women in the LIG (17.41 +/- 2.59 mg/d) and the HIG (23.23 +/- 7.47 mg/d). Consumption of pulses (18.49 +/- 7.41 g/d), dairy products (11.89 +/- 0.48 g/d), other vegetables (4.81 +/- 1.74 g/d), and fats and oils (10.52 +/- 4.71) were significantly below the recommended daily allowance, leading to low consumption of fat, calcium, and carotene in all physiologic states and income groups: calcium in all groups except HIG NPNL women (397.74 +/- 53.62 mg/d); carotene in LIG NPNL (1484.05 +/- 179.01 mg/d) and HIG NPNL (1641.35 +/- 227.86 micrograms/d) women, and LIG L (847.04 +/- 174.72 micrograms/d) and HIG L (1321.89 +/- 673.26 micrograms/d) women. We suggested dietary modifications to make up the dietary deficits of calcium, fat, and carotene, particularly during pregnancy and lactation, and incorporating nutrition education into the community development programs.
14993207	To evaluate the existing annotation of the Arabidopsis genome further, we generated a collection of evolutionary conserved regions (ecores) between Arabidopsis and rice. The ecore analysis provides evidence that the gene catalog of Arabidopsis is not yet complete, and that a number of these annotations require re-examination. To improve the Arabidopsis genome annotation further, we used a novel "full-length" enriched cDNA collection prepared from several tissues. An additional 1931 genes were covered by new "full-length" cDNA sequences, raising the number of annotated genes with a corresponding "full-length" cDNA sequence to about 14,000. Detailed comparisons between these "full-length" cDNA sequences and annotated genes show that this resource is very helpful in determining the correct structure of genes, in particular, those not yet supported by "full-length" cDNAs. In addition, a total of 326 genomic regions not included previously in the Arabidopsis genome annotation were detected by this cDNA resource, providing clues for new gene discovery. Because, as expected, the two data sets only partially overlap, their combination produces very useful information for improving the Arabidopsis genome annotation.
14994424	Immortalized F(2) population of rice (Oryza sativa L.) was developed by randomly mating F(1) among recombinant inbred (RI) lines derived from (Zhenshan 97B x Minghui 63), which allowed replications within and across environments. QTL (quantitative trait loci) mapping analysis on kilo-grain weight of immortalized F(2) population was performed by using newly developed software for QTL mapping, QTLMapper 2.0. Eleven distinctly digenic epistatic loci included a total of 15 QTL were located on eight chromosomes. QTL main effects of additive, dominance, and additive x additive, additive x dominance, and dominance x dominance interactions were estimated. Interaction effects between QTL main effects and environments (QE) were predicted. Less than 40% of single effects, most of which were additive effects, for identified QTL were significant at 5% level. The directional difference for QTL main effects suggested that these QTL were distributed in parents in the repulsion phase. This should make it feasible to improve kilo-grain weight of both parents by selecting appropriate new recombinants. Only few of the QE interaction effects were significant. Application prospect for QTL mapping achievements in genetic breeding was discussed.
14994426	Insertion mutagenesis has become one of the most popular methods for gene functions analysis. Here we report a two-element Ac/Ds transposon system containing enhancer trap and gene trap for gene tagging in rice. The excision of Ds element was examined by PCR amplification. The excision frequency of Ds element varied from 0% to 40% among 20 F(2) populations derived from 11 different Ds parents. Southern blot analysis revealed that more than 70% of excised Ds elements reinserted into rice genome and above 70% of the reinserted Ds elements were located at different positions of the chromosome in rice. The result of histochemical GUS analysis indicated that 28% of enhancer trap and 22% of gene trap tagging plants displayed GUS activity in leaves, roots, flowers or seeds. The GUS positive lines will be useful for identifying gene function in rice.
14994428	The genetic basis of heterosis was studied through mid-parent, standard variety and better parent for 11 quantitative traits in 17 parental lines and their 10 selected hybrids in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The characters were plant height, days to flag leaf initiation, days to first panicle initiation, days to 100% flowering, panicle length, flag leaf length, days to maturity, number of fertile spikelet/panicle, number of effective tillers/hill, grain yield/10-hill, and 1000-grain weight. In general the hybrids performed significantly better than the respective parents. Significant heterosis was observed for most of the studied characters. Among the 10 hybrids, four hybrids viz., 17Ax45R, 25Ax37R, 27Ax39R, 31Ax47R, and 35Ax47R showed highest heterosis in 10-hill grain yield/10-hill. Inbreeding depression of F2 progeny was also studied for 11 characters of 10 hybrids. Both positive and negative inbreeding depression were found in many crosses for the studied characters, but none was found significant. Selection of good parents was found to be the most important for developing high yielding hybrid rice varieties.
14994429	The new Moderate-Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite image offers a large choice of opportunities for operational applications. The 1-km Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) image is not suitable for retrieval of field level parameter and Landsat data are not frequent enough for monitoring changes in crop parameters during the critical crop growth periods. A methodology to map areas of paddy fields using MODIS, geographic information system (GIS) and global position system (GPS) is introduced in this paper. Training samples are selected and located with the help of GPS to provide maximal accuracy. A concept of assessing areas of potential cultivation of rice is suggested by means of GIS integration. By integration of MODIS with GIS and GPS technologies the actual areas of rice fields in 2002 have been mapped. The classification accuracy was 95.7% percent compared with the statistical data of the Agricultural Bureau of Zhejiang Province.
14994793	Bacillus thuringiensis is the most widely used biopesticide among many methods available to control insects. To make a saleable product, B. thuringiensis must be substantially concentrated by removal of water and formulated to improve longevity, efficacy, and ease of transport of the product. B. thuringiensis subsp. aizawai culture broth as an active ingredient was mixed with various adjuvants and then spray dried. The optimum conditions for spray drying were found to be an outlet temperature of 60-85 degrees C and an inlet temperature of 120-180 degrees C. Various adjuvants had different effects on physical and biological properties of the dried product. Gelatinized tapioca starch and milk powder improved suspensibility but adversely affected wettability of the dried formulated product. Vegetable oil and Tween 20 enhanced wettability but resulted in poor suspensibility. Silica fume was used to enhance flowability because it reduced clumping and caking of the powder resulting from the addition of vegetable oil. Formulation containing 10% wt:wt B. thuringiensis, 10% wt:wt gelatinized tapioca starch, 10% wt:wt sucrose, 38% wt:wt tapioca starch, 20% wt:wt milk powder, 10% wt:wt silica fume, 2% wt:wt polyvinyl alcohol, 5% vol:vol Tween 20, 1% vol:vol refined rice bran oil, and 1% vol:vol antifoam solution was found to be optimum in terms of the physical and biological properties of the dried product. This formulation had 55% suspensibility, 24 s for wetting time, and 5.69 x 10(4) CFU/ml of LC50 value against Spodoptera exigua larvae.
14995349	The evolution of the growth of a ricepile is studied in three dimensions. With time, the pile approaches a critical state with a certain slope. Assuming extremal dynamics in the evolution of the pile, the way the critical state is approached is dictated by the scaling properties of the critical state itself. Experimentally, we determine the envelope of the maximal slope, which is a measure for the distance from the critical state, as well as the growth of the average avalanche size with time. These quantities obey power-law scaling, where the experimental exponents are in good agreement with those obtained from an earlier determination of the critical state properties and extremal dynamics. Furthermore, we discuss the influence of the transient state on the avalanche size distribution, which may have applications in the prevention of large avalanches in natural systems.
14997180	We investigated genetic diversity among and within natural populations of Asian common wild rice, Oryza rufipogon, from three different classes of data: quantitative traits, allozymes, and restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs). The seven populations examined showed polymorphism to varying degrees. The amount of intrapopulation variability appeared to be influenced not only by breeding system but also by the evolutionary history of each population. Interpopulation differentiation was clear, but different classes of data elucidated different patterns. Quantitative traits revealed ecotype differentiation into perennial and annual types of population, whereas allozyme and RFLP analyses revealed geographical differentiation among populations. These results suggest that the diversity patterns shown by quantitative trait analysis reflect mainly the occurrence of adaptive differentiation in response to habitat conditions and that those shown by allozyme and RFLP analyses reflect mainly the effect of isolation by distance. Population differentiation parameters (F(ST)) were highly variable among loci in allozymes as well as in RFLPs.
14997637	In recent years, excessive nutrient loss in subsurface drainage from agricultural land is identified as a major source of non-point source pollution, and has been attended globally. This study was conducted to determine the effect of nutrient leaching from paddy field in rice-planting season under different fertilizer application levels on water quality by using Lysimeter experiment. The results showed that the concentration of NH4(+)-N in surface water raised quickly after fertilization, reached the highest in 2 or 3 days with the maximum value of 26.2 mg.L-1, and then, dropped quickly within 7 or 10 days. The concentration of NH4(+)-N in leachate was very low, only accounted for 0.008%-0.074% of total fertilizer applied. The nitrate content in the solution and lossed from leaching increased gradually with fertilizer application rate, with a range from 0 to 7.14 mg.L-1. The nitrate concentration in leachate over the soil profile was characterized by a gradual increase from the top to bottom. Nitrogen was leached away mainly in the form of NO3(-)-N in rice-planting season, and the net NO3(-)-N loss was 3.2-8.3 kg.hm-2, accounted for 1.40%-2.78%. Under the experiment level, nitrogen leaching may lead to a potential pollution of underground water. The concentration of phosphorus in surface water reached the highest in one day after fertilization, after then dropped. The concentration of phosphorus in lower depth was very low, almost not affected by the amount of fertilizer applied. Application of pig manure could increase the transfer of phosphorus.
14997638	Plot and field experiments showed that the NH3 volatilization loss from rice field reached its maximum in 1-3 days after N-fertilization, which was affected by the local climate conditions (e.g., sun illumination, temperature, humidity, wind speed, and rainfall), fertilization time, and ammonium concentration in surface water of the rice field. The wet deposition of atmospheric nitrogen was correlated with the application rate of N fertilizer and the rainfall. The amount of nitrogen brought into soil or surface water by the wet deposition in rice growing season reached 7.5 kg.hm-2. The percent of NH4(+)-N in the wet deposition was about 39.8%-73.2%, with an average of 55.5%. There was a significant correlation of total ammonia volatilization loss with the average concentration of NH4(+)-N in wet deposition and total amount of wet deposition in rice growing season.
14997651	The adaptation of whitebacked planthopper (WBPH) Sogatella furcifera to insect-resistant rice variety N22 and the variation of its protective enzyme were studied by rearing it successively two generations on N22 and insect-susceptible rice variety TN1 in laboratory. The results showed that after reared on TN1 or N22 for one or two generations, its egg period, nymphal duration, and total generation period had no significant difference. The ecological parameters, e.g., nymphal survival rate, body weight, amount of honey dew, egg number, and innate increasing rate of WBPH transferred from TN1 to N22 and reared for one generation were lower than those of WBPH reared on N22 successively for two generations, and the latter was lower than that reared on TN1. The activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) in protective enzyme system of the 2nd generation WBPH on N22 were similar to those of the pest on TN1, indicating that S. furcifera could adapt to insect-resistant variety N22 after rearing it successively for several generations.
14997664	Four composting treatments for municipal sludge and rice straw were carried out, which included turning composting, inoculation-turning composting, continuous aeration, and intermittent aeration. GC/MS determination of phthalic acid esters (PAEs) in different composted composts showed that the total contents of six PAE compounds (sigma PAEs) ranged from 0.980-17.832 mg.kg-1, decreasing in the order of turning composting (17.832 mg.kg-1) > inoculation-turning composting (13.927 mg.kg-1) > intermittent aeration (10.765 mg.kg-1) > continuous aeration (9.815 mg.kg-1). DnOP was dominated in the composts. The degradation rate of sigma PAEs after composting was 1.37-45.71% (mean 27.63%), and that of diethyl phthalate (DEP), di-n-butyl phthalate (DnBP) and butylbenzyl phthalate (BBP) was 95.76-98.68%, 79.56-99.46% and 87.42-98.42%, respectively. The concentration of di-n-octyl phthalate (DnOP) was increased in the composts. Aeration-composting, and continuous aeration composting in particular, was more efficient than other treatments to degrade PAEs in municipal sludge.
14997665	Studies on the effects of pig manure and rice straw on the biological activity of Cd-contaminated permeable paddy soil showed that Cd-contaminated soil had a declined biological activity. After applying organic manure, the content of soil available Cd decreased significantly, being about 40%, and soil microbial C, N and P and soil dehydrogenase and catalase activities increased 30%-100%. There existed a negative correlation between soil available Cd and soil microbial C and N, indicating that microbial C and N could be used as an index of Cd-contaminated soil.
14997669	Determinations on the CH4 and N2O emissions from phaeozem rice field showed that their emission amount in rice growing season was much lower than any other regions in China. There was trade-off relationship between CH4 and N2O emissions(r = -0.513, P < 0.05). Under the same fertilization, compared with continual irrigation, intermittent irrigation could reduce significantly CH4 emission and increase N2O emission, but the overall warming potential of greenhouse effect was reduced greatly, while rice yield was not affected. Therefore, intermittent irrigation was an effective irrigation measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from rice field. In addition, investigations on CH4 and N2O emissions and their related microbial process showed a positive relation between methanogens number and CH4 emission(R2 = 0.82, P < 0.05), and the important relationship between the numbers of nitrifiers and denitrifiers and N2O emissions.
14997675	Methane emission from rice paddy fields is the net result of the combination of many processes, i.e., CH4 production, CH4 oxidation and CH4 transportation in paddy soil. Rice plants play a key role in the CH4 emission from paddy fields, particularly in all the processes involved. The positive and negative effects of rice plants on CH4 emission from paddy fields are well recognized as the main factors influencing the temporal variation of CH4 emission flux in paddy field. Process-based studies about the effects of rice plants on methane emission from paddy fields were summarized, and different roles of rice plants on this emission were discussed. Root exudates and litters of rice plants could serve as the substrate for methanogenesis and enhance the CH4 production of paddy soils, resulting in a high CH4 emission peak, particularly in rice late growing season. Rhizospheric CH4 oxidation induced by rice root-excreted oxygen constitutes a main biogenic sink of CH4, which could account for 36-90% of CH4 produced in paddy soil over the entire growing season of rice. Up to 80% and more of CH4 released from rice field during a growing season could be emitted by rice plant-mediated transport. The fully developed aerenchyma of rice plants could be of importance in CH4 emission during rice growing seasons, and responsible for the CH4 emission peak observed at rice early growing season.
14997683	The effects of different amounts and kinds of nitrogen fertilizer on rice yield and its nitrogen uptake and utilization were studied on a main paddy soil (Wushan soil) of Taihu area. The results indicated that the optimal amount of nitrogen fertilizer was about 180 kg N.hm-2 for rice production. Applying ammonium sulfate was better than applying urea for increasing rice yield. The efficiency of nitrogen fertilizer in this experiment was about 41.8-48.5%, and its loss was 22.8-38.1%.
14998016	The behavior of As in paddy fields is of great interest considering high As contents of groundwater in several Asian countries where rice is the main staple. We determined the concentrations of Fe, Mn, and As in soil, soil water, and groundwater samples collected at different depths down to 2 m in an experimental paddy field in Japan during the cycle of flooded and non-flooded periods. In addition, we measured the oxidation states of Fe, Mn, and As in situ in soil samples using X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and conducted sequential extraction of the soil samples. The results show that Fe (hydr)oxide hosts As in soil. Arsenic in irrigation waters is incorporated in Fe (hydr)oxide in soil during the non-flooded period, and the As is quickly released from soil to water during the flooded period because of reductive dissolution of the Fe (hydr)oxide phase and reduction of As from As(V) to As(III). The enhancement of As dissolution by the reduction of As is supported by high As/Fe ratios of soil water during the flooded period and our laboratory experiments where As(III) concentrations and As(III)/As(V) ratios in submerged soil were monitored. Our work, primarily based on data from an actual paddy field, suggests that rice plants are enriched in As because the rice grows in flooded paddy fields when mobile As(III) is released to soil water.
15002662	Polyamines have long been recognized to be linked to stress situations, and it is generally accepted that they have protective characteristics. However, little is known about their physiological relevance in plants subjected to long-term salt stress. In order to precise their importance, two rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars differing in their salt tolerance were salinized for 7, 14 and 21 days. The activities of some of the enzymes involved in polyamine metabolism, free polyamines and proline contents were evaluated. Arginine decarboxylase and S-adenosyl-L-methionine decarboxylase activities were reduced in both cultivars as a consequence of salt treatment. However, spermidine synthase activity was reduced in the salt tolerant cultivar (var Giza) but not in the salt sensitive (var El Paso), while no polyamine oxidase activity was detected. During the salinization period, putrescine and spermidine levels decreased in both cultivars, although less dramatically in Giza. Simultaneously, spermine accumulations occur in both varieties, while proline accumulation was major in the sensitive one. However, spermine accumulation induced by treatment with spermidine synthase inhibitor cyclohexylamine, determined no reduction in leaf injury associated with salt stress in both cultivars. The data presented suggest that spermine accumulation is not a salt tolerance trait.
15002663	In the present study, we evaluate the protective effect of nitric oxide (NO) against senescence of rice leaves promoted by methyl jasmonate (MJ). Senescence of rice leaves was determined by the decrease of protein content. MJ treatment resulted in (1) induction of leaf senescence, (2) increase in H2O2 and malondialdehyde (MDA) contents, (3) decrease in reduced form glutathione (GSH) and ascorbic acid (AsA) contents, and (4) increase in antioxidative enzyme activities (ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione reductase, peroxidase and catalase). All these MJ effects were reduced by free radical scavengers such as sodium benzoate and GSH. NO donors [N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN), sodium nitroprusside, 3-morpholinosydonimine, and AsA+NaNO2] were effective in reducing MJ-induced leaf senescence. PBN prevented MJ-induced increase in the contents of H2O2 and MDA, decrease in the contents of GSH and AsA, and increase in the activities of antioxidative enzymes. The protective effect of PBN on MJ-promoted senescence, MJ-increased H2O2 content and lipid peroxidation, MJ-decreased GSH and AsA, and MJ-increased antioxidative enzyme activities was reversed by 2-(4-carboxy-2-phenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-imidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide, a NO-specific scavenger, suggesting that the protective effect of PBN is attributable to NO released. Reduction of MJ-induced senescence by NO in rice leaves is most likely mediated through its ability to scavenge active oxygen species including H2O2.
15002664	Plant responses to herbivores are complex. 108 cDNA clones representing genes relating to plant responses to chewing insect-feeding, pathogen infection, wounding and other stresses were collected. Northern blot and cDNA array analysis were employed to investigate gene expression regulated by piercing-sucking insect, brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens (Homoptera: Dephacidae) on both the resistant and susceptible rice genotypes. After BPH feeding in rice for 72 h, the expression of most tested genes was affected. 14 genes in resistant rice variety B5 and 44 genes in susceptible MH63 were significantly up- or down-regulated. Most of the well-regulated genes were grouped in the categories of signaling pathways, oxidative stress/apoptosis, wound-response, drought-inducible and pathogen-related proteins. Those related to the flavonoid pathway, aromatic metabolidsm and the octadecanoid pathway were mostly kept unchanged or down-regulated. Our results indicate that BPH feeding induces plant responses which would take part in a jasmonic acid-independent pathway and crosstalk with those related to abiotic stress, pathogen invasion and phytohormone signaling pathways.
15002665	The effect of aluminium (Al) on seedlings of two rice cultivars, Pusa Basmati and Vikas was investigated after different hours of exposure to 80 mol/L of external Al supply. With increasing time of exposure, the growing seedlings readily absorbed Al and its localization was greater in roots than shoots. Prolonged exposure to Al intensified lipid peroxidation, changed the activities of SOD and peroxidase and caused DNA damage. However, differential responses were observed between the seedlings of two rice cultivars under Al stress. A close inverse relationship existed between decreased root growth and increased Al accumulation, lipid peroxidation, SOD, peroxidase activities and DNA damage. The results demonstrate that roots are the major sites of Al localization and accumulation of Al promoted oxygen free radicals mediated peroxidation of membranes as evidenced by increased MDA levels and the activities of SOD and peroxidase. Our results for the first time showed that Al can cause DNA damage in rice.
15002667	A full-length cDNA, designated BpHi008A, was cloned representing a rice (Oryza sativa) mRNA that accumulates after brown planthopper (BPH) Nilapar vata lugens Stål feeding. The cDNA encodes a putative 82 amino acid protein (BpHi008A) exhibiting about 37% amino acid sequence identity to Wir1 family of proteins that are encoded by pathogen-induced transcripts in wheat. Like Wir1 proteins, it consists of a hydrophobic N-terminal half and a hydrophilic C-terminal half relatively rich in glycine and proline. These proteins are predicted to be integrated into the membrane, with the C-terminus being extracytoplastic. Genomic Southern analysis indicated that the BpHi008A gene was present as a single-copy sequence in the rice genome. Temporal and spatial studies showed that BpHi008A were systemically induced in rice when 2nd and 3rd-instars were feeding. The BpHi008A transcripts level was also increased in seedlings damaged by mechanical wounding. These data indicated that BphHi008A was implicated in the response of rice plants to BPH feeding and wounding.
15003025	Novel N,O-acyl chitosan (NOAC) derivatives were synthesized to examine their fungicidal activity against the gray mould fungus Botrytis cinerea (Leotiales: Sclerotiniaceae) and the rice leaf blast fungus Pyricularia oryzae (Teleomorph: Magnaporth grisea). The fungicidal activity was evaluated by the radial growth bioassay. NOAC derivatives were more active against the two plant pathogens than chitosan itself, and the effect was concentration dependent. Against B. cinerea, 4-chlorobutyryl chitosan (EC50=0.043%), decanoyl chitosan (EC50=0.044%), cinnamoyl chitosan (EC50=0.045%), and p-methoxybenzoyl chitosan (EC50=0.050%) were the most active (12-13-fold more active than chitosan). (Un)-substituted benzoyl chitosan derivatives were more active against B. cinerea than most of these with N,O-alkyl derivatives. Against P. oryzae chitosan derivatives with lauroyl, methoxy acetyl, methacryloyl and decanoyl were the most active.
15003209	Recent studies of rice miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs), largely fueled by the availability of genomic sequence, have provided answers to many of the outstanding questions regarding the existence of active MITEs, their source of transposases (TPases) and their chromosomal distribution. Although many questions remain about MITE origins and mode of amplification, data accumulated over the past two years have led to the formulation of testable models.
15003211	In addition to the Arabidopsis and rice genomic sequences, numerous expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and sequenced tag sites are now available for many species. These tools have made it possible to re-evaluate the extent of synteny and collinearity not only between Arabidopsis and related crops or between rice and other cereals but also between Arabidopsis and rice, between Arabidopsis and other dicots, and between cereals other than rice. Major progress in describing synteny relies on statistical tests. Overall, the data point to the occurrence of ancestral genome fragments in which a framework of common markers can be recognised. Micro-synteny studies reveal numerous rearrangements, which are likely to complicate map-based cloning strategies that use information from a model genome.
15003921	The aim of the study was to feed convenience baby food brown rice (BC) and white rice (WC) congee diets compared to egg custard (EC) and baked bean (BB) diets to newborn guinea pig pups. Diets were isocaloric and formulated to contain equal macronutrient content of carbohydrate, protein, fat and fibre. Diets were supplemented with essential nutrients, fruit and vegetables and decrementally with standard chow for palatability. We investigated the acceptability of the diets and specifically whether the different natural fibre content of these diets could influence whole animal and small intestinal growth, caecal digesta properties and specifically in vitro ileal contractility. After 8 weeks of feeding, the mean body weight of WC group was significantly lower than the BB group. WC group had lower small intestine weight than both BC group and BB group resulting in lower small intestine density compared to BB group. Caecal digesta pH and total short chain fatty acid (SCFA) concentration were similar. However, butyrate was higher in the BB group compared to the other diets. Contractility studies revealed a small but significantly higher voltage was required to initiate ileal contraction of BC group compared to both the EC and BB groups. All dietary groups responded similarly to acetylcholine, histamine, serotonin, PGE(2), PGF(2alpha), and 8-iso-PGE(2). There were no differences on inhibition of electrically-driven contraction by morphine or epinephrine. The newborn guinea pig model was an effective system for testing, with limitations, supplemented convenience baby foods with variable natural fibre content that demonstrated significant effects on animal growth, caecal digesta SCFA and intestinal contractility.
15004675	TAXI (Triticum aestivum xylanase inhibitor) proteins are present in wheat flour and are known to inhibit glycosyl hydrolase family 11 endoxylanases, enzymes which are commonly applied in grain processing. Here, we describe the PCR-based molecular identification of genes encoding endoxylanase inhibitors HVXI and SCXI, the TAXI-like proteins from barley (Hordeum vulgare) and rye (Secale cereale) respectively. The HVXI coding sequence encodes a mature protein of 384 amino acids preceded by a 19 amino acid long signal sequence. SCXI-II/III has an open reading frame encoding a signal peptide of 21 amino acids and a mature protein of 375 amino acids. As for TAXI-I, no introns were detected in the untranslated regions and coding sequences identified. These newly identified sequences allowed us to perform a multiple sequence alignment with TAXI-I and similar proteins. Rice TAXI-type proteins clustered together with the cereal endoxylanase inhibitors. Dicotyledonous proteins with sequence similarity to TAXI-I, including the tomato xyloglucan-specific endoglucanase inhibiting protein, formed a different clade. The TAXI-type proteins may hence be part of a superfamily of proteins all involved in plant responses to biotic or abiotic stress and for which a function as glycosyl hydrolase inhibitors can be suggested. The chromosomal localization of the TAXI-I gene identified on wheat chromosome 3B, of the SCXI-II/III gene identified on rye chromosome 6R, and the presence of a cluster of TAXI-like genes on rice chromosome 1, allowed us to assign the location of TAXI-like genes to the wheat-rye translocation area 3BL/6RL characterized by RFLP markers XGlb33 and Xpsr454 and isozyme Est-5. In rice, RFLP marker C1310S corresponds to a TAXI-like protein encoding sequence.
15004754	The purpose of this data compilation is to overview past and current dietary exposure (primarily via rice) of general populations to cadmium (Cd) in environmentally polluted and non-polluted areas in Japan, and to compare the levels with counterpart levels in other areas in Asia. A literature survey was conducted for publications on this subject, in either Japanese or international languages, since the early 1970s. Most of the studies identified employed the food-duplicate method in combination with atomic absorption spectrometry for Cd determination, although a few studies utilized other methods, such as the market basket method and dithizon-colorimetry. The highest estimate of dietary Cd intake (Cd-D), 600 microg Cd/day, was reported in the late 1960s for the local population in the Jinzu river basin, where Itai-itai disease had been endemic, and the Cd-D levels were 300 microg/day or higher in other polluted areas. Cd-D dropped to well below 100 microg/day when the polluted soil was replaced in the late 1970s and thereafter. In non-polluted areas, the Cd-D was reported to be approximately 100 microg/day in 1969, followed by a gradual decrease to approximately 40 microg/day in the late 1970s, to reach the current level of less than 30 microg/day. There is a trend of gradual reduction at the rate of 0.3 to 0.6 microg/day per year. Cd from rice accounted for 30 to 40% of the Cd-D in non-polluted areas, but a higher contribution was observed in some polluted areas. Nevertheless, the current Cd-D is still higher than the levels in other rice-dependent populations in east and south-east Asia. The Cd-D levels reported for polluted areas were in excess of 300 microg Cd/day. Substantial reduction in Cd-D to the level below 100 microg/day was observed after remediation, such as replacement of polluted paddy soil. In non-polluted areas, there has been a gradual decrease in Cd-D in the past 25 years. Nevertheless, the levels in the current intake of the general population in Japan (25 to 30 microg/day, or <1/10 of the levels in polluted areas in the past) is still higher than the levels in other rice-dependent areas in Asia.
15005833	This is the first study to investigate how food and nutrient intakes vary with the levels of acculturation of Korean Americans using a dietary assessment tool tested for validity and reliability. The respondents were Korean Americans (n 486) resident in the Greater New York metropolitan area, USA. They were divided into two groups according to the total score of acculturation: low- and high-acculturated groups. Using a food-frequency questionnaire and a modified Suinn-Lew Asian self-identity acculturation scale, differences in the frequencies of food items, food groups and nutrient intakes consumed were analysed by level of acculturation. The low-acculturated group tended to consume significantly more rice, mixed rice, soyabean paste chigae (pot stew), saengsun (fish) chigae, kimchi chigae, other fish broiled or baked, eggs, kimchi, spinach, persimmons, and white or brown sugar in coffee or tea. The high-acculturated group demonstrated a statistically greater tendency to consume bread, cereal, spaghetti, ham, green salad, sweetcorn, chocolate, candies and diet soft drinks. The more acculturated an individual, the more significant was the tendency to consume sweets. The more acculturated group had significantly (P<0.05) higher intakes of % energy from total fat, thiamin, vitamin E and folate, while the low-acculturated group consumed greater amounts of Na, niacin and dietary fibre. The information from the present study can be used to describe dietary habits according to various aspects of acculturation, and allows a better understanding of the dynamics of acculturation and dietary habits.
1500591	Objectives were to determine concentrations of P in phytate in selected concentrates, disappearance of P in phytate from these concentrates in vitro, and extent of hydrolysis of phytate in vivo. Total P and P in phytate were determined for eight concentrates; 32 to 81% of total P was in phytate. Six concentrates were incubated in vitro to determine the extent of phytate disappearance from solids and its appearance and disappearance from solution. Greater than 90% of P in phytate disappeared from solids between 6 and 8 h of incubation in vitro (wheat middlings, rice bran, hominy, soybean meal, and dried distillers grains) or between 12 and 24 h (cottonseed meal). Phosphorus in phytate in solution was hydrolyzed by 12 h except for cottonseed meal (by 24 h). Hydrolysis of the inositol ring to release P in vivo was greater than 99%, based on total fecal collection from 11 cows and the use of Cr as an indigestible marker in excreta, and between 94 to 98% for the same samples when acid detergent lignin was used as an indigestible marker to calculate phytate disappearance. These results further indicate that P in phytate should be considered available to lactating dairy cows when rations to meet their P requirements are being formulated.
15006509	The concentrations of PCBs, DDTs, HCHs, HCB and OCS were determined in sediments and associated biota, both invertebrates (Physella acuta, Hirudo medicinalis, chironomid larvae, Hydrous pistaceus, Helochares lividus) and vertebrates (Rana perezi), in a temporary aquatic system, a rice field in the Ebro Delta (NE Spain). The qualitative and quantitative distribution of organochlorine compounds in sediments and aquatic biota has been explained by two mechanisms: equilibrium partitioning and/or biomagnification through the trophic web. Nevertheless, bioaccumulation processes are by far more complex, since several biotic and abiotic factors contribute to the observed pollutant loads in the organisms. In this respect, the biological characteristics of the organisms considered (e.g. species, age, lipid contents, feeding habits, etc.), as well as ecological factors (e.g. the habitat of the species and vertical distribution), have been shown to account for the organochlorine levels observed.
15007655	Studies of the meiosis of diploid plants such as Arabidopsis, maize and diploid progenitors of wheat have revealed no premeiotic association of chromosomes. Premeiotic and somatic association of chromosomes has only been previously observed in the anther tissues and xylem vessel cells of developing roots in polyploid plants such as hexaploid and tetraploid wheat, polyploid relatives of wheat and artificial polyploids made from the progenitor diploids of wheat. This suggested that this association was confined specifically to polyploids or was induced by polyploidy. However, we developed procedures for in situ hybridization on structurally well-preserved tissue sections of rice, and analysed two diploid rice species (Oryza sativa and O. punctata). Contrary to expectation, this has revealed that centromeres and telomeres also associate both in the xylem vessel cells of developing root and in undifferentiated anther cells in these diploids. However, in contrast to wheat and related polyploids, where the initial association in undifferentiated anthers is between either non-homologous or related chromosomes, and not homologous chromosomes, the initial association of rice chromosomes seems to be between homologues. Thus, in contrast to the diploid dicot model Arabidopsis, meiotic studies on the diploid model cereal, rice, will now need to take into account the effects of premeiotic chromosome association.
15007733	In this study, comparative high resolution genetic mapping of the GA-insensitive dwarfing gene sdw3 of barley revealed highly conserved macrosynteny of the target region on barley chromosome 2HS with rice chromosome 7L. A rice contig covering the sdw3-orthologous region was identified and subsequently exploited for marker saturation of the target interval in barley. This was achieved by (1) mapping of rice markers from the orthologous region of the rice genetic map, (2) mapping of rice ESTs that had been physically localized on the rice contig, or (3) mapping of barley ESTs that show strong sequence similarity to coding sequences present in the rice contig. Finally, the sdw3 gene was mapped to an interval of 0.55 cM in barley, corresponding to a physical distance of about 252 kb in rice, after employing orthologous EST-derived rice markers. Three putative ORFs were identified in this interval in rice, which exhibited significant sequence similarity to known signal regulator genes from different species. These ORFs can serve as starting points for the map-based isolation of the sdw3 gene from barley.
15007902	Absorption of cadmium is increased by deficiency of iron in animals, but it is uncertain that the same phenomenon occurs in humans. The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between cadmium and iron in the body and to evaluate the influence of dietary habits. Twenty-five healthy women, aged 20-23 years, were selected by excluding those with renal disease and habitual constipation. They participated in the dietary intervention study to estimate tolerable weekly intake of Cd for 3 weeks in the same dormitory. At 3 months before, at 0 Day, at the 12th Day of the study and 9 months after the study, health check-ups were performed, and Cd in the blood and urine, hemoglobin (Hb), serum iron (iron) and serum ferritin (ferritin) were measured. Cd concentration in the blood (B-Cd) showed a significant correlation with Cd concentration in the urine (U-Cd), and inverse correlation with the body iron storage, such as Hb, iron and ferritin. A food frequency questionnaire showed that no subject showed insufficient dietary intake of iron. Subjects who had eaten grain, millet and brown rice showed higher levels of B-Cd and U-Cd and low levels of Hb, iron and ferritin. Absorption of Cd tended to increase according to a low level of body iron storage among healthy young women.
15010605	Appropriately regulated gene expression requires a suitable promoter. A number of promoters have been isolated and shown to be functional in plants, but only a few of them activate transcription of transgenes at high levels constitutively. We report here the cloning and characterization of a novel, constitutively expressed promoter isolated from Cestrum yellow leaf curling virus (CmYLCV), a double-stranded DNA plant pararetrovirus belonging to the Caulimoviridae family. The CmYLCV promoter is highly active in callus, meristems and vegetative and reproductive tissues in Arabidopsis thaliana, Nicotiana tabacum, Lycopersicon esculentum, Zea mays and Oryza sativa. Furthermore, the level of expression is comparable to, or higher than, that from the CaMV 35S, the 'super-promoter' or the maize ubiquitin 1 promoters, three frequently used promoters in agricultural biotechnology. The heritable, strong and constitutive activity in both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants, combined with the extremely narrow CmYLCV host range, makes the CmYLCV promoter an attractive tool for regulating transgene expression in a wide variety of plant species.
15010620	Coordinated cell growth and differentiation is crucial for the development of higher plants. Using the elongation defective 1-1 (eld1-1) mutant, we cloned the ELD1 gene, which encodes a serine-rich protein. Genes homologous to ELD1 can be found in plants, including Arabidopsis, rice, and tobacco, but not in other organisms. Using reverse genetics, we identified a new allele, eld1-2, which is phenotypically indistinguishable from eld1-1, but does not produce a detectable ELD1 transcript. The ELD1 gene sequence is the same as that of the KOBITO1 sequence. However, the kob1 mutants display weak phenotype relative to the two eld1 mutants, which are likely null alleles. KOB1 was reported to be a membrane protein involved in cellulose synthesis. However, based on ELD1-GFP localization in plasmolyzed cells, we found that ELD1 is localized to the cell wall/extracellular matrix, rather than the membrane. Thus, ELD1/KOB1 is a secreted protein involved in promoting cell growth. To investigate the relationship between ELD1 and Arabidopsis genes with high sequence similarity, we analyzed the possible subcellular location of their proteins as well as their amino acid sequence. The ELD1-related proteins in Arabidopsis were predicted to be localized to subcellular compartments different from that of ELD1. Thus, ELD1 is likely to be functionally distinct from related Arabidopsis genes. These results suggest that ELD1 is a single-copy gene which belongs to a small family of plant-specific genes with diverse function.
15011056	The response of a granular material during a stop-and-go shear experiment is investigated using an annular shear cell and silicagel powders of different particle sizes. The experimental results are examined on the basis of the Dieterich-Rice-Ruina model for solid friction. In addition to making this analogy with solid friction, we describe a new instability that is observed when restarting shear, where the powder bed is found to slip and compact for short hold times but only dilates for long hold times. The minimum hold time to restore a non-slip behaviour has been investigated for different size particles and normal loadings. The observed dependencies show analogies between this behaviour and the sliding rearrangements seen above the stick-slip threshold.
15012451	There has been much progress in the control of chemical reactions since methods of active control were first proposed by Brumer & Shapiro and by Tannor & Rice ten years ago. This chapter reviews both theoretical and experimental advances in the field. Control schemes based on quantum mechanical interference between competing paths and the manipulation of wave packets with tailored laser pulses are discussed. The theory of optimal control, the limitations of control theory applied to many-body dynamics, and the effects of constraints on the trajectory of the controlled observable are presented. Experimental progress in controlling the population of specific quantum states, in manipulating the dynamics of bound wave packets, and in the control of chemical reactions are reviewed, and current problems in the field are summarized.
15012496	Viruses in the genus Tenuivirus (Tenuiviruses) cause a number of important diseases in economically important crop plants including rice and maize. Tenuiviruses are transmitted from plant to plant by specific planthopper vectors, and their transmission relationship is circulative-propagative. Thus, Tenuiviruses have host ranges including plants and animals (planthoppers). Four or five characteristic, circular ribonucleoprotein particles (RNPs), each containing a single Tenuivirus genomic RNA, can be isolated from Tenuivirus-infected plants. The genomic RNAs range in size from ca 9.0 kb to 1.3 kb and together give a total genome size of ca 18-19 kb. The genomic RNAs are either negative-sense or ambisense, and expression of the ambisense RNAs utilizes cap-snatching during mRNA transcription. The combination of characteristics exhibited by Tenuiviruses are quite different than those found for most plant viruses and are more similar to vertebrate-infecting viruses in the genus Phlebovirus of the Bunyaviridae.
15012500	The heterothallic ascomycete, Magnaporthe grisea, is the blast pathogen of rice and about 50 other grasses, and has potential for sexual and asexual reproduction. In most populations, data from mating type, fertility assays, and genotypic diversity strongly suggest that the pathogen is asexual. However, parasexual recombination cannot be ruled out. Chromosome length polymorphisms and translocations may prevent successful meiosis in most populations. Pathogens of millets and some grasses growing with rice appear to be largely genetically isolated, though some gene flow may occur. Sexual fertility has repeatedly been reported in rice pathogens from mountainous regions of South and East Asia. Several means by which sexual fertility may be lost in an agricultural setting are advanced.
15012543	The 15 known viruses that occur in rice are rice black-streaked dwarf, rice bunchy stunt, rice dwarf, rice gall dwarf, rice giallume, rice grassy stunt, rice hoja blanca, rice necrosis mosaic, rice ragged stunt, rice stripe necrosis, rice stripe, rice transitory yellowing, rice tungro bacilliform, rice tungro spherical, and rice yellow mottle viruses. This paper describes their geographical distribution, relation to vectors, infection cycles, field dispersal, and development, and lists recorded outbreaks of the viruses. Many rice viruses have become serious problems since rice cultivation has been intensified. Double-cropping of rice using improved, photo-insensitive cultivars of short growth duration has significantly influenced the incidence of these viruses.
15012544	Rice tungro, the most important virus disease of rice in South and Southeast Asia, is caused by a complex of two viruses, rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) and rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV). RTBV is a plant pararetrovirus with bacilliform particles, the structure of which is based on T = 3 icosahedral symmetry cut across the threefold axis.The particles encapsidate a circular double-stranded DNA of 8 kbp that encodes four proteins. The current information on the properties, functions, and expression of these proteins is discussed, as is the evidence for replication by reverse transcription. Two major strains of RTBV have been recognized, one from the Indian subcontinent and the other from Southeast Asia. RTSV particles contain a single-stranded RNA genome of 12 kb that encodes a large polyprotein and possibly one or two smaller proteins. The properties and processing of the polyprotein are described and the resemblance to picornaviruses noted.
15014143	Mitochondrial DNA sequences are frequently transferred to the nucleus giving rise to the so-called nuclear mitochondrial DNA (NUMT). Analysis of 13 eukaryotic species with sequenced mitochondrial and nuclear genomes reveals a large interspecific variation of NUMT number and size. Copy number ranges from none or few copies in Anopheles, Caenorhabditis, Plasmodium, Drosophila, and Fugu to more than 500 in human, rice, and Arabidopsis. The average size is between 62 (baker's yeast) and 647 bps (Neurospora), respectively. A correlation between the abundance of NUMTs and the size of the nuclear or the mitochondrial genomes, or of the nuclear gene density, is not evident. Other factors, such as the number and/or stability of mitochondria in the germline, or species-specific mechanisms controlling accumulation/loss of nuclear DNA, might be responsible for the interspecific diversity in NUMT accumulation.
15014450	In many plants, major developmental transitions such as the initiation of flowering are synchronized to the changing seasons. Day length provides one of the environmental cues used to achieve this. We describe the molecular mechanisms that measure day length and control flowering in Arabidopsis. Also, we compare these mechanisms with those that control flowering time in rice. This comparison suggests that components of the Arabidopsis regulatory network are conserved in other species, but that their regulation can be altered to generate different phenotypic responses.
15014981	The Hardness (Ha) locus on chromosome 5D is the main determinant of grain texture in hexaploid wheat. The related genes Puroindoline-a and -b (Pina-D1, Pinb-D1) and Grain Softness Protein (Gsp-D1) are tightly linked at this locus. Mutations in the Pina-D1 and Pinb-D1 genes are associated with increased grain hardness. We report here the complete sequence of a 101-kb BAC clone from Triticum monococcum (A(m) genome) which includes these three genes, and its comparison with the orthologous region in rice. The genes Gsp-A(m) 1, Pina-A(m) 1 and Pinb-A(m) 1 are separated by 37 kb and 32 kb, respectively, and are organized in the same transcriptional orientation. Four additional genes, including a pair of duplicated genes, were identified upstream of Gsp-A(m) 1 within a high-density gene island. These additional genes were found in the same order and orientation, and the same relative distances apart as similar genes previously annotated on rice chromosome 12. An interesting discovery was a small unannotated putative rice gene that was similar to the Gsp-A(m) 1 gene of T. monococcum (65% similarity at the protein level), and that was disposed in the same orientation, and located in the same position relative to the other orthologous genes. The high gene density observed in this BAC (1 gene per 14 kb) was expected for a distal chromosome region, but the level of microcolinearity with rice was higher than that reported in similar distal regions of other wheat chromosomes. Most of the BAC sequence (40%) was represented by repetitive elements, mainly concentrated in regions adjacent to the genes Pina-A(m) 1 and Pinb-A(m) 1. Rearrangements among these repetitive elements might provide an explanation for the frequent deletions observed at this locus in the genomes of the polyploid wheat species.
15014983	A complete set of candidate disease resistance (R) genes encoding nucleotide-binding sites (NBSs) was identified in the genome sequence of japonica rice (Oryza sativaL. var. Nipponbare). These putative R genes were characterized with respect to structural diversity, phylogenetic relationships and chromosomal distribution, and compared with those in Arabidopsis thaliana. We found 535 NBS-coding sequences, including 480 non-TIR (Toll/IL-1 receptor) NBS-LRR (Leucine Rich Repeat) genes. TIR NBS-LRR genes, which are common in A. thaliana, have not been identified in the rice genome. The number of non-TIR NBS-LRR genes in rice is 8.7 times higher than that in A. thaliana, and they account for about 1% of all of predicted ORFs in the rice genome. Some 76% of the NBS genes were located in 44 gene clusters or in 57 tandem arrays, and 16 apparent gene duplications were detected in these regions. Phylogenetic analyses based both NBS and N-terminal regions classified the genes into about 200 groups, but no deep clades were detected, in contrast to the two distinct clusters found in A. thaliana. The structural and genetic diversity that exists among NBS-LRR proteins in rice is remarkable, and suggests that diversifying selection has played an important role in the evolution of R genes in this agronomically important species. (Supplemental material is available online at http://gattaca.nju.edu.cn.)
15015127	The accumulated sequence information of the almost completed rice genome and the transcriptome of other cereals provide an excellent starting point for comparative genome analysis. We performed targeted synteny-based marker saturation for the Rph16 leaf rust resistance locus in barley by extensively exploiting these newly available resources. Out of a collection of over 320,000 public barley ESTs 309 non-redundant candidate syntenic clones have been identified for this region in a two-step in silico selection procedure. For mapping, 54 barley cDNA-clones were selected due to the even distribution of their homologs on a putatively collinear 3-Mb rice BAC contig. Out of these, 97% (30) of the polymorphic markers could be genetically assigned in collinearity to the target region in barley and a set of 11 markers was integrated into an rph16 high-resolution map. Although, the collinear target region of rice does not contain an obvious candidate gene for rph16 the results demonstrate the potential of the presented procedure to efficiently utilize EST resources for synteny-based marker saturation. The systematic genome-wide exploitation of the increasing sequence data resources will strongly improve our current view of genome conservation and likely facilitate a synteny-based isolation of genes conserved across cereal species.
1501619	In infants and children, the treatment of acute diarrhoea with glucose-based electrolyte solutions results in rehydration but does not reduce the severity and duration of diarrhoea. In german-speaking countries, rice- and carrot-based solutions have a long tradition in the treatment of diarrhoea and may also reduce stool output and the duration of diarrhoea. Therefore, we evaluated the efficacy and safety of a carrot-rice-based rehydration solution (Na 57 mmol/L, n = 70) and two conventional glucose-based solutions with high or low sodium concentrations (Na 90 mmol/L, n = 48 or Na 55 mmol/L, n = 60) in a prospective study. The study subjects were Pakistani boys and girls between 3 and 48 months of age with mild or moderate dehydration. We measured duration of diarrhoea, fecal and urine output, fluid intake and serum electrolytes. The duration of diarrhoea was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in the group receiving the carrot-rice based rehydration solution (59.5 +/- 30.9 h) than in the groups receiving the high-Na (75.5 +/- 30.5) and low-Na (74.8 +/- 32.5) glucose-electrolyte solutions. The mean fecal output (p less than 0.01) and fluid intake (p less than 0.001) were also significantly lower in the infants and children receiving the carrot-rice-based rehydration solution. No major electrolyte imbalances were observed in the three groups. We conclude that the carrot-rice-based rehydration solution was safe and more effective than two conventional glucose-electrolyte solutions in the rehydration of infants and children with acute diarrhoea.
15016817	l-myo-Inositol-1-phosphate synthase (EC 5.5.1.4, MIPS), an evolutionarily conserved enzyme protein, catalyzes the synthesis of inositol, which is implicated in a number of metabolic reactions in the biological kingdom. Here we report on the isolation of the gene (PINO1) for a novel salt-tolerant MIPS from the wild halophytic rice, Porteresia coarctata (Roxb.) Tateoka. Identity of the PINO1 gene was confirmed by functional complementation in a yeast inositol auxotrophic strain. Comparison of the nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of PINO1 with that of the homologous gene from Oryza sativa L. (RINO1) revealed distinct differences in a stretch of 37 amino acids, between amino acids 174 and 210. Purified bacterially expressed PINO1 protein demonstrated a salt-tolerant character in vitro compared with the salt-sensitive RINO1 protein as with those purified from the native source or an expressed salt-sensitive mutant PINO1 protein wherein amino acids 174-210 have been deleted. Analysis of the salt effect on oligomerization and tryptophan fluorescence of the RINO1 and PINO1 proteins revealed that the structure of PINO1 protein is stable toward salt environment. Furthermore, introgression of PINO1 rendered transgenic tobacco plants capable of growth in 200-300 mm NaCl with retention of approximately 40-80% of the photosynthetic competence with concomitant increased inositol production compared with unstressed control. MIPS protein isolated from PINO1 transgenics showed salt-tolerant property in vitro confirming functional expression in planta of the PINO1 gene. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a salt-tolerant MIPS from any source.
15018157	Rice bran glycosphingolipid (RBGSL), one of the glycosphingolipids (GSLs), has been widely used as a food additive, a base of cosmetics, and so on. As a part of the safety assessment of RBGSL, a 13-week repeated dose toxicity study was performed in Wistar Hannover (GALAS) rats. Male and female rats were divided into 4 groups consisting of 8 animals and were given 0, 60, 250, and 1000 mg/kg BW of RBGSL orally 5 times weekly for 13 weeks. During the experiment, no deaths were observed in any groups, and there were no remarkable changes in general appearance, body weight, food and water consumption, hematological and serum biochemical parameters, organ weight and histopathological findings between the control and treated groups. On the basis of these data, the no-observed-adverse effect level (NOAEL) of RBGSL in Wistar Hannover rats was considered to be 1000 mg/kg BW/ day or more.
15020478	Having diverged 50 MYA, rice remained diploid while the maize lineage became tetraploid and then fractionated by losing genes from one or the other duplicate region. We sequenced and annotated 13 maize genes (counting the duplicate gene as one gene) on one or the other of the pair of homeologous maize regions; 12 genes were present in one cluster in rice. Excellent maize-rice synteny was evident, but only after the fractionated maize regions were condensed onto a finished rice map. Excluding the gene we used to define homeologs, we found zero retention. Once retained, fractionation (loss of functioning DNA sequence) could occur within cis-acting gene space. We chose a retained duplicate basic leucine zipper transcription factor gene because it was well marked with big, exact phylogenetic footprints (CNSs). Detailed alignments of lg2 and retained duplicate lrs1 to their rice ortholog found that fractionation of conserved noncoding sequences (CNSs) was rare, as expected. Of 30 CNSs, 27 were conserved. The 3 unexpected, missing CNSs and a large insertion support subfunctionalization as a reflection of fractionation of cis-acting gene space and the recent evolution of lg2's novel maize leaf and shoot developmental functions. In general, the principles of fractionation and consolidation work well in making sense of maize gene and genomic sequence data.
15020481	Miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are short, nonautonomous DNA elements that are widespread and abundant in plant genomes. Most of the hundreds of thousands of MITEs identified to date have been divided into two major groups on the basis of shared structural and sequence characteristics: Tourist-like and Stowaway-like. Since MITEs have no coding capacity, they must rely on transposases encoded by other elements. Two active transposons, the maize P Instability Factor (PIF) and the rice Pong element, have recently been implicated as sources of transposase for Tourist-like MITEs. Here we report that PIF- and Pong-like elements are widespread, diverse, and abundant in eukaryotes with hundreds of element-associated transposases found in a variety of plant, animal, and fungal genomes. The availability of virtually the entire rice genome sequence facilitated the identification of all the PIF/Pong-like elements in this organism and permitted a comprehensive analysis of their relationship with Tourist-like MITEs. Taken together, our results indicate that PIF and Pong are founding members of a large eukaryotic transposon superfamily and that members of this superfamily are responsible for the origin and amplification of Tourist-like MITEs.
15020633	A cDNA from deep water rice treated with ethylene, encoding an ethylene receptor homologous to Arabidopsis thaliana ETR2 and EIN4, was isolated using differential display and RACE techniques. The cDNA (2880 bp), corresponding to the Os-ERL1 gene (Oryza sativa ETHYLENE RESPONSE 2 like 1; GenBank accession number AB107219), contained an open reading frame of 2289 bp coding for 763 amino acids. The protein Os-ERL1 has 50% and 52% similarity to Arabidopsis ETR2 and EIN4, respectively. The Os-ERL1 gene was up-regulated by flooding, and by treatment with ethylene and gibberellin. These results suggest that deep water rice responds to flooding by increasing the number of its ethylene receptors.
15020636	With the available Arabidopsis genome and near-completion of the rice genome sequencing project, large-scale analysis of plant proteins with mass spectrometry has now become possible. Determining the proteome of a cell is a challenging task, which is complicated by proteome dynamics and complexity. The biochemical heterogeneity of proteins constrains the use of standardized analytical procedures and requires demanding techniques for proteome analysis. Several proteome studies of plant cell organelles have been reported, including chloroplasts and mitochondria. Chloroplasts are of particular interest for plant biologists because of their complex biochemical pathways for essential metabolic functions. Information from the chloroplast proteome will therefore provide new insights into pathway compartmentalization and protein sorting. Some approaches for the analysis of the chloroplast proteome and future prospects of plastid proteome research are discussed here.
15020637	By comparison with dicot plant species, relatively little work has been reported on the phosphate transporter (Pht1) gene family from monocot species. Initial studies have shown that barley contains at least eight homologous genes. The promoters of six of these genes were analysed for the presence of regulatory elements potentially associated with expression specificity. In particular, the P1BS-like elements (implicated in phosphorus-regulated expression of genes in plants) was identified in all HvPht1 promoters examined. For two members of the family (HvPht1;1 and HvPht1;2), promoter fusions to beta-glucuronidase and green fluorescent protein reporter genes were constructed, transformed into rice, and the expression profiles observed. The inclusion of an intron derived from Adh1 enhanced gene expression approximately 20-fold, but did not appear to affect the specificity of expression. The HvPht1;1 and HvPht1;2 promoters showed minor differences in expression patterns but, in general, expression was observed at high levels in trichoblast cells (root hairs) and stele of the nodal root, throughout secondary roots, and at a relatively low level in leaf tissues. Under phosphorus deficiency, expression was induced by up to 5-fold. These observations are consistent with a primary role for the encoded genes in the uptake of phosphate by root hairs from soil solution and further current understanding of the mechanisms involved. The promoters also have application for providing a new resource for cereal transformation, ideally suited for driving the expression of foreign genes associated with nutrient uptake.
15020705	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are present in both plant and animal kingdoms and represents a growing family of non-coding RNAs. These tiny RNAs act as small guides and direct negative regulations usually in the process of development through sequence complementarity to target mRNAs. Although a large number of miRNAs have been identified from various animals, so far plant miRNA studies have focused mainly on Arabidopsis. Here we describe the identification of 20 miRNAs from a rice cDNA library. All the miRNAs were presumably processed from precursors with stem-loop structures and were positively detected in rice cells from at least one tissue, some of which showed tissue-specific expression. Twenty-three unique rice genes were identified to be feasible targets for seven rice miRNAs, including four members of Scarecrow-like transcription factor, the targets of miR-39 that had been characterized in Arabidopsis. Lacking long complementarity, the regulatory targets of 13 miRNAs remain to be further investigated. A possible mechanism of translational repressor for plant miRNAs that lack perfect complementarity to target mRNAs is discussed.
15020752	Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) is a widely used technique for large-scale transcriptome analysis in mammalian systems. Recently, a modified version called LongSAGE (S. Saha, A.B. Sparks, C. Rago, V. Akmaev, C.J. Wang, B. Vogelstein, K.W. Kinzler [2002] Nat Biotechnol 20: 508-512) was reported by increasing tag length up to 21 bp. Although the procedures for these two methods are similar, a detailed protocol for LongSAGE library construction has not been reported yet, and several technical difficulties associated with concatemer cloning and purification have not been solved. In this study, we report a substantially improved LongSAGE method called Robust-LongSAGE, which has four major improvements when compared with the previously reported protocols. First, a small amount of mRNA (50 ng) was enough for a library construction. Second, enhancement of cDNA adapter and ditag formation was achieved through an extended ligation period (overnight). Third, only 20 ditag polymerase chain reactions were needed to obtain a complete library (up to 90% reduction compared with the original protocols). Fourth, concatemers were partially digested with NlaIII before cloning into vector (pZEro-1), greatly improving cloning efficiency. The significant contribution of Robust-LongSAGE is that it solved the major technical difficulties, such as low cloning efficiency and small insert sizes associated with existing SAGE and LongSAGE protocols. Using this protocol, one can generate two to three libraries, each containing over 4.5 million tags, within a month. We recently have constructed five libraries from rice (Oryza sativa), one from maize (Zea mays), and one from the rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea).
15020759	Over 40,000 sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) consensus sequences assembled from 237,954 expressed sequence tags were compared with the protein and DNA sequences from other angiosperms, including the genomes of Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa). Approximately two-thirds of the sugarcane transcriptome have similar sequences in Arabidopsis. These sequences may represent a core set of proteins or protein domains that are conserved among monocots and eudicots and probably encode for essential angiosperm functions. The remaining sequences represent putative monocot-specific genetic material, one-half of which were found only in sugarcane. These monocot-specific cDNAs represent either novelties or, in many cases, fast-evolving sequences that diverged substantially from their eudicot homologs. The wide comparative genome analysis presented here provides information on the evolutionary changes that underlie the divergence of monocots and eudicots. Our comparative analysis also led to the identification of several not yet annotated putative genes and possible gene loss events in Arabidopsis.
15020760	In recent years, access to complete genomic sequences, coupled with rapidly accumulating data related to RNA and protein expression patterns, has made it possible to determine comprehensively how genes contribute to complex phenotypes. However, for major crop plants, publicly available, standard platforms for parallel expression analysis have been limited. We report the conception and design of the new publicly available, 22K Barley1 GeneChip probe array, a model for plants without a fully sequenced genome. Array content was derived from worldwide contribution of 350,000 high-quality ESTs from 84 cDNA libraries, in addition to 1,145 barley (Hordeum vulgare) gene sequences from the National Center for Biotechnology Information nonredundant database. Conserved sequences expressed in seedlings of wheat (Triticum aestivum), oat (Avena strigosa), rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and maize (Zea mays) were identified that will be valuable in the design of arrays across grasses. To enhance the usability of the data, BarleyBase, a MIAME-compliant, MySQL relational database, serves as a public repository for raw and normalized expression data from the Barley1 GeneChip probe array. Interconnecting links with PlantGDB and Gramene allow BarleyBase users to perform gene predictions using the 21,439 non-redundant Barley1 exemplar sequences or cross-species comparison at the genome level, respectively. We expect that this first generation array will accelerate hypothesis generation and gene discovery in disease defense pathways, responses to abiotic stresses, development, and evolutionary diversity in monocot plants.
1502164	The DNA sequences for 17 plant genes for alpha-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) were analyzed to determine their phylogenetic relationship. A phylogeny for these genes was obtained using two separate approaches, one based on molecular clock assumptions and the other based on a comparison of sequence polymorphisms (i.e., small and localized insertions) in the alpha-amylase genes. These polymorphisms are called "alpha-amylase signatures" because they are diagnostic of the gene subfamily to which a particular alpha-amylase gene belongs. Results indicate that the cereal alpha-amylase genes fall into two major classes: AmyA and AmyB. The AmyA class is subdivided into the Amy1 and Amy2 subfamilies previously used to classify alpha-amylase genes in barley and wheat. The AmyB class includes the Amy3 subfamily to which most of the alpha-amylase genes of rice belong. Using polymerase chain reaction and oligonucleotide primers that flank one of the two signature regions, we show that the AmyA and AmyB gene classes are present in approximately equal amounts in all grass species examined except barley. The AmyB (Amy3 subfamily) genes in the latter case are comparatively underrepresented. Additional evidence suggests that the AmyA genes appeared recently and may be confined to the grass family.
15023457	Floating pellets containing spores of bacterial biological control agent, Bacillus megaterium were prepared by extrusion-spheronization process. The formulations composed of hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO), lactose, microcrystalline cellulose (Avicel(R) PH101), and a disintegrant; cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose (Ac-Di-Sol(R)). The finishing pellets contained bacteria ranging from 10(7) to 10(8) CFU/g and the viability of bacteria in all formulations remained high after 6 months storage. The scanning electron microscope (SEM) was used to observe endospores of B. megaterium on both the surface and the inside of the pellets. The formulations were tested for their physical properties, floating ability and bacterial release. The level of disintegrant in the formulations influenced the floating ability and the liberation of antagonistic bacteria from pellets. The bacterial pellets showed promising result in suppression of the development of sheath blight lesions in greenhouse experiment.
15023961	The taxonomic positions of Weissella kimchii and Weissella cibaria were examined using phenotypic tests, 16S rRNA gene sequencing and DNA-DNA hybridization. The two species displayed very similar sugar-fermentation patterns and produced the D-form of lactic acid. Phylogenetic analysis showed that W. cibaria is the closest neighbour of W. kimchii, sharing about 99.7 % similarity in the 16S rRNA gene sequence. DNA-DNA hybridization experiments further reinforced these results, demonstrating a 98.2 % reassociation level between W. cibaria LMG 17699(T) and W. kimchii DSM 14295(T). On the other hand, strain RO5, an isolate from paddy rice silage, exhibited 99.4 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity and a DNA reassociation level of more than 97 % with both type strains. Therefore, it is proposed that the species W. kimchii should be reclassified as W. cibaria.
15027071	The receptor binding step in the molecular mode of action of five delta-endotoxins (Cry1Ab, Cry1Ac, Cry1C, Cry2A, and Cry9C) from Bacillus thuringiensis was examined to find toxins with different receptor sites in the midgut of the striped stem borer (SSB) Chilo suppressalis (Walker) and yellow stem borer (YSB) Scirpophaga incertulas (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae). Homologous competition assays were used to estimate binding affinities (K(com)) of (125)I-labelled toxins to brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV). The SSB BBMV affinities in decreasing order was: Cry1Ab = Cry1Ac > Cry9C > Cry2A > Cry1C. In YSB, the order of decreasing affinities was: Cry1Ac > Cry1Ab > Cry9C = Cry2A > Cry1C. The number of binding sites (B(max)) estimated by homologous competition binding among the Cry toxins did not affect toxin binding affinity (K(com)) to both insect midgut BBMVs. Results of the heterologous competition binding assays suggest that Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac compete for the same binding sites in SSB and YSB. Other toxins bind with weak (Cry1C, Cry2A) or no affinity (Cry9C) to Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac binding sites in both species. Cry2A had the lowest toxicity to 10-day-old SSB and Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac were the most toxic. Taken together, the results of this study show that Cry1Ab or Cry1Ac could be combined with either Cry1C, Cry2A, or Cry9C for more durable resistance in transgenic rice. Cry1Ab should not be used together with Cry1Ac because a mutation in one receptor site could diminish binding of both toxins.
15029491	In order to understand the molecular mechanisms by which two types of phytohormones, brassinosteroids (BRs) and gibberellins (GAs), regulate plant growth and development, a cDNA microarray was made containing 4000 clones randomly selected from a rice cDNA library constructed from RNA isolated from seedlings treated with GA(3) and brassinolide (BL). The array was then probed to identify differences in expression using labelled cDNAs prepared from treated and control seedlings. Nine and 29 unique cDNA clones were up-regulated, while 32 and 42 unique cDNA clones were down-regulated by BL and GA(3), respectively. The predicted products of these BL- and GA-regulated genes fall into such functional categories as signal transduction, transcription, metabolism, cellular organization, and defense or anti-stress responses. Northern analysis of the selected BL- and GA(3)-regulated genes not only confirmed their BL or GA(3) dose dependent expression, but also revealed significant differences in the degree of expression in different organs and in response to other phytohormones. These results demonstrate that BR and GA influence growth and development by coordinately regulating the expression of specific groups of genes.
15029955	The NAC domain was originally characterized from consensus sequences from petunia NAM and from Arabidopsis ATAF1, ATAF2, and CUC2. Genes containing the NAC domain (NAC family genes) are plant-specific transcriptional regulators and are expressed in various developmental stages and tissues. We performed a comprehensive analysis of NAC family genes in Oryza sativa (a monocot) and Arabidopsis thaliana (a dicot). We found 75 predicted NAC proteins in full-length cDNA data sets of O. sativa (28,469 clones) and 105 in putative genes (28,581 sequences) from the A. thaliana genome. NAC domains from both predicted and known NAC family proteins were classified into two groups and 18 subgroups by sequence similarity. There were a few differences in amino acid sequences in the NAC domains between O. sativa and A. thaliana. In addition, we found 13 common sequence motifs from transcriptional activation regions in the C-terminal regions of predicted NAC proteins. These motifs probably diverged having correlations with NAC domain structures. We discuss the relationship between the structure and function of the NAC family proteins in light of our results and the published data. Our results will aid further functional analysis of NAC family genes.
15029956	We used an 8987-EST collection to construct a cDNA microarray system with various genomics information (full-length cDNA, expression profile, high accuracy genome sequence, phenotype, genetic map, and physical map) in rice. This array was used as a probe to hybridize target RNAs prepared from normally grown callus of rice and from callus treated for 6 hr or 3 days with the hormones abscisic acid (ABA) or gibberellin (GA). We identified 509 clones, including many clones that had never been annotated as ABA-or GA-responsive. These genes included not only ABA- or GA-responsive genes but also genes responsive to other physiological conditions such as pathogen infection, heat shock, and metal ion stress. Comparison of ABA- and GA-responsive genes revealed antagonistic regulation for these genes by both hormones except for one defense-related gene, thionin. The gene for thionin was up-regulated by both hormone treatments for 3 days. The upstream regions of all the genes that were regulated by both hormones had cis-elements for ABA and GA response. We performed a clustering analysis of genes regulated by both hormones and various expression profiles that showed three notable clusters (seed tissues, low temperature and sugar starvation, and thionin-gene related). A comparison of the cis-elements for hormone response genes between rice and Arabidopsis thaliana, we identified cis-elements for dehydration-stress response or for expression of amylase gene as Arabidopsis gene-specific or rice gene-specific, respectively.
15029965	The effects of five different diets on the experimental infection of pigs with a Danish field isolate of Brachyspira pilosicoli were investigated. The diets tested were a pelleted and a non-pelleted standard diet based on wheat and barley, the standard diet supplemented with 2 per cent lactic acid, a fermented liquid feed and a diet based on cooked rice. Two trials were conducted, each with six groups of six pigs; in each, two of the groups were fed the standard diet. One of these groups and the other four groups were challenged after two weeks on the diets and euthanased four weeks later. The clinical signs of B pilosicoli infection varied from loose stools to watery, mucoid diarrhoea. The group fed the rice diet excreted B pilosicoli in their faeces for a significantly shorter period than the group fed the standard diet (P < 0.01), and fewer of them excreted the organism (P < 0.05). All the pigs fed the pelleted diet excreted B pilosicoli in their faeces, and significantly more of them showed clinical signs of disease than the pigs fed the standard diet (P < 0.05). The fermented liquid feed and the diet containing lactic acid had no significant effect on the excretion of B pilosicoli or on the numbers of pigs showing clinical signs of disease.
15030242	Selenium fertilizer was foliar applied to determine the effects of antioxidant activity of selenium-enriched rice assessed by alpha,alpha-diphenyl-beta-picylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging and the ferric thiocyanate (FTC) method. Results showed that selenium concentration in rice was significantly enhanced dose dependently. Aqueous or ethanolic extracts of rice displayed significantly higher antioxidant activity against lipid peroxidation. The activities of aqueous extracts were significantly higher than those of ethanolic extracts and increased with the increasing selenium concentration in rice. The DPPH assay showed that the kinetic behaviors of aqueous extracts were complex and slow, while ethanolic extracts reacted quickly with DPPH radical. Aqueous extracts of rice exhibited higher antiradical efficiencies than ethanolic extracts, and rice (1.275 mg Se kg(-)(1)) presented the lowest EC(50) values of 533.46 +/- 0.58 microg mL(-)(1). As compared to rice extracts, all of the reference antioxidants showed more than 4-fold antiradical efficiencies than rice extracts. This radical scavenging activity was significantly correlated with selenium concentrations in rice (R = 0.862, p < 0.05), while ethanolic extracts were inversely correlated with selenium concentration in rice.
15031413	We have identified and characterized a novel gene, PAIR1 (HOMOLOGOUS PAIRING ABERRATION IN RICE MEIOSIS1), required for homologous chromosome pairing and cytokinesis in male and female meiocytes of rice (Oryza sativa). The pair1 mutation, tagged by the endogenous retrotransposon Tos17, exhibited meiosis-specific defects and resulted in complete sterility in male and female gametes. The PAIR1 gene encodes a 492-amino acid protein, which contains putative coiled-coil motifs in the middle, two basic regions at both termini, and a potential nuclear localization signal at the C terminus. Expression of the PAIR1 gene was detected in the early stages of flower development, in which the majority of the sporocytes had not entered meiosis. During prophase I of the pair1 meiocyte, all the chromosomes became entangled to form a compact sphere adhered to a nucleolus, and homologous pairing failed. At anaphase I and telophase I, chromosome nondisjunction and degenerated spindle formation resulted in multiple uneven spore production. However, chromosomal fragmentation frequent in plant meiotic mutants was never observed in all of the pair1 meiocytes. These observations clarify that the PAIR1 protein plays an essential role in establishment of homologous chromosome pairing in rice meiosis.
15031916	Two sets of test materials were derived from diallel cross among nine different types of selected rice varieties (lines). Based on the experimental data at different development stages of early and late rice, the estimation of heterosis and genetic correlation of rice grain weight at some development stages (0-->t) or at some special development phases (t--1-->t) was conducted by using additive-dominant genetic model and developmental genetic model for quantitative traits. The results indicated that the heterosis over mid-parent value based on population mean was not significant at 5% level at the early stages (1-12 d), and turned to positively significant as the development process proceeded in early rice. The heterobeltiosis based on population mean appeared to be small negative during the entire courses of grain filling. The heterosis over mid-parent based on population mean appeared to be positively significant at the early and middle grain filling stages (1-18 d), but became insignificant at the late stages (19-28 d) in late rice. The heterobeltiosis based on population mean appeared to be positively significant at the early grain filling stages (1-12 d), but turned to be significantly negative as the development process proceeded in late rice. It also indicated that the heterosis of grain weight development was beneficial to improve the quality of grain filling in late rice, compared to that in early rice. The genetic correlation between the grain weights per se at different stages and the final grain weight was mainly controlled by dominant effects, and became closer with the development process in the early rice, while by additive effects in the late rice. It's suggested that indirect selection of final grain weight throughout the process of grain filling would be more effective in late rice.
15031926	The study showed that the rice varieties N22, Luyuanzhan No. 1 and 94D-22 had a stronger tolerance to Sogatella furcifera, while Mudgo and K89-B5 had a weaker tolerance. The varieties Ptb33 and Zhongzu 74 were of antibiosis, and susceptible varieties Xiushui 11, Shanyou 63 and susceptible check varieties TN1 had no tolerance. After rice plants were infested by S. furcifera, the percentages of nitrogen content (N%) and soluble sugar content (S%) in tolerant varieties increased, but the ratio of nitrogen content to soluble sugar content (N/S) decreased obviously. For susceptible varieties, the variations of N%, S% and N/S were opposite to those of the tolerant varieties. In different varieties the contents of most kinds of free amino acid increased at various degrees, but those of alanine in susceptible variety TN1, alanine, threonine and methionine in tolerant varieties N22, and arginine in resistant variety Ptb33 decreased.
15031929	By using the relay seeding technique with slight modification, a population of 134 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between indica rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar Zhong 156 x Gumei 2 and contained 168 DNA markers covering all 12 chromosomes with 1447.9 cM spans was employed to evaluate the rice allelopathic effect on barnyardgrass [Echinochloa crus-galli (I.) Beauv.]. The phenotyping values of the biomass of barnyardgrass infested with rice materials were employed to map the genes of allelopathic activity on barnyardgrass. One main effect of QTL on 7 chromosomes was identified, which explained 32.30% of the phenotypic variation. Six pairs of digenic epistatic loci were also detected, which collectively explained 47.83% of the phenotypic variation. The main QTL and epistatic loci totally explained 80.13% of the phenotypic variation of allelopathic activity.
15031930	A pot experiment was conducted with silty loam Agrodolf as test soil and with transgenic Bt rice and non-Bt rice as test crops to study the effect of transgenic Bt rice planting on soil urease, phophatase, arylsulfatase, invertase, and dehydrogenase activities. The results showed that Bt toxin could be introduced into soil through root exudates of transgenic Bt rice, and its survival amount in soil varied with time. Compared with non-Bt rice treatment, transgenic Bt rice treatment had a significant decrease (2.47%) of soil urease activity and a significant increase (8.91%) of soil acid phosphatase activity, but no significant change in soil arylsulfatase, invertase, and dehydrogenase activities at the 15th day of emergence. At the 30th day of emergence, the transgenic Bt rice treatment still had a significant decrease of soil urease activity (16.36%) and a significant increase of acid phosphatase activity (35.69%), and no change in invertase activity. It also had significant increase in soil arylsulfatase (19.70%) and dehydrogenase activities (16.83%).
15031931	The allelochemicals and allelopathic potentials of rice (Huahang No. 1) were investigated under different water, fertility, and light conditions with pot culture. The results showed that the allelopathic potential of Huahang No. 1 was stronger at high levels of water and fertility, but its specific allelochemicals contents had no significant variation at both levels. The numbers of the total secondary metabolites and the contents of some anti-pathogenic chemicals were increased at low level of water or fertility. Furthermore, the contents of specific allelochemicals in Huahang No. 1 were lower under strong light than under weak light condition. Similarity, the allelopathic potential decreased, and the contents of some anti-pathogenic chemicals maintained unchanged under weak light condition. No matter what levels of water, fertility or light conditions were, the allelopathic potential of Huahang No. 1 on associated weeds was weaker than that on non-associated ones.
15031933	Methanogens, methanotrophs, nitrifiers and denitrifiers are the important microorganisms in the production and consumption of CH4 and N2O in soil. In order to understand the microbial processes related to the two greenhouse gases in paddy soil, the four bacteria groups in phaeozem (Hailun) and burozem (Shenyang) were surveyed during rice growth season by using MPN counting technique. The CH4 and N2O emissions were measured with closed chamber method. Two different water management regimes, i.e., continual irrigation and intermittent irrigation, were used for the two paddy soils. The results of multiple regression analysis showed that there was a significantly positive correlation between CH4 emission and methanogen population in both phaeozem and burozem under two water management regimes. In the soil of Shenyang, there was a significantly positive correlation between CH4 emission and methanotropli population. The N2O emission was significantly correlated to the denitrifier population in both phaeozem and burozem under intermittent irrigation, and in the soil of Shenyang, there was a significantly positive correlation between N2O emission and nitrifier population under two water managements.
15031934	The measurements of soil microbial biomass C, respiration rate and CH4 emissions during one rice growth period in black earth rice fields showed that the soil microbial biomass C and respiration rate were depressed significantly by the application of slow-releasing urea at the early stage of rice growth period (P < 0.05), but almost not affected by intermittent irrigation. The CH4 emission was decreased by 32.5% in the intermittent irrigation treatments, but not significantly affected by the application of slow-releasing urea, compared to the control. It was significantly related to soil microbial biomass C in slow-releasing urea treatments.
15031942	This paper introduced the developmental genetics and its molecular ecological basis of high yielding formation of rice in the past decade, and analyzed the advantage and the shortage of comparative physiological approach traditionally used in the research work on crop cultivation. It was emphasized to actively introduce the research contents and its methodology from relative disciplines to deeply understand the scientific issue, and suggested that the key to realize stable and high yielding of rice was to develop a rational cultivation system based on the properties of genetic effects on the traits in different developmental stages by controlling and regulating the traits governed by dominant effect genes and additive effect genes x environment in same direction, which was considered as the main characteristics and the technological innovation of modern crop genetic ecological cultivation science. Finally, the development trend of crop cultivation science shifting to molecular crop cultivation science was predicted and discussed.
15032821	The N-terminal amino-acid sequence was determined for a major rice phloem protein with a molecular mass of 31 kDa, named RPP31. The corresponding full-length rice EST-clone was cloned based on the amino acid sequence. The predicted total amino-acid sequence of RPP31 shared high similarity with plant glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). Recombinant RPP31 produced in Escherichia coli and rice phloem sap showed GST activity. Immunocytological analysis indicated that RPP31 is localized in the phloem region of leaves. In mature leaves, the signal was restricted to sieve element-companion cell complexes, and was stronger in sieve elements than in companion cells. Although some plant GSTs are known to be induced by xenobiotics, the amount of RPP31 was not affected by treatments with an herbicide, pretilachlor, and/or its safener, fenclorim. These results suggest that RPP31 is an active GST restricted to the phloem region of normal rice leaves.
15032827	Variation in transgene expression levels can result from uncontrolled differences in experimental protocols. It is important to quantify and eliminate this unwanted variation as much as possible in order to attain precision in transgenic studies. Large-scale transgenic studies could, by their design, generate additional variation. The influence of different plant growth, sampling and analysis strategies in generating spurious variation in transgene expression level quantification in rice plant populations was assessed. The use of multiple independent plant phenotypic analyses (enzymatic assays in this study) was identified as the major source of spurious variation (doubling or tripling the variation). The quantification of transgene expression levels was also found to be significantly influenced by plant age, the choice of leaf sampled and leaf size. All of these factors reduced the precision of molecular genetic studies and generated artefactual results in transgenic studies. Identification of the sources of extraneous variation allowed the development of a new standard operating procedure (SOP) for rice, designed to control spurious variation. SOP allowed the influence of differences in growth period and independent phenotypic analyses to be minimized. The coefficient of variation in transgene expression levels, between and within genetically identical rice plants, was reduced to approximately 10 to 15% using SOP. Adoption of quality assurance (QA) criteria such as SOP is key to improving the reproducibility of transgenic studies.
15032885	Phytohormones are well-known regulators of the symbiotic Rhizobium-legume association in the plant host. The enod40 nodulin gene is associated with the earliest phases of the nodule organogenesis programme in the legume host and modifying its expression resulted in perturbations of nodule development in Medicago truncatula. Therefore in our pursuit to mimic the initial signal transduction steps of legume nodulation in the alien physiological set-up of a rice plant, we have expressed the Mtenod40 gene in rice. Molecular data confirm the stable integration, inheritance and transcription of the foreign gene in this non-legume. We have compared the phytohormonal responses of Mtenod40-overexpressing and control plants in a homologous legume background (M. truncatula) and in the non-legume rice. An enod40-mediated root growth response, induced by inhibition of ethylene biosynthesis, was observed in both plants. On the other hand, a significant differential effect of cytokinins was observed only in rice plants. This suggests that ethylene inhibits enod40 action both in legumes and non-legumes and reinforces that some of the early signal transduction steps of the nodule developmental programme may function in rice.
15032948	Brown planthopper (BPH) (Nilaparvata lugens Stål) is a significant insect pest of rice (Oryza sativa L.). We constructed a gene-pyramided japonica line, in which two BPH resistance genes Bph1 and Bph2 on the long arm of chromosome 12 independently derived from two indica resistance lines were combined through the recombinant selection. The gene-pyramiding was achieved based on the previously constructed high-resolution linkage maps of the two genes. Two co-dominant and four dominant PCR-based markers flanking the loci were used to select for a homozygous recombinant line in a segregating population that was derived from a cross between the parental homozygous single-gene introgression lines. BPH bioassay showed that the resistance level of the pyramided line was equivalent to that of the Bph1-single introgression line, which showed a higher level of resistance than the Bph2-single introgression line. The pyramid line should provide a useful experimental means for studying the fine structure of the chromosomal region covering these two major BPH resistance genes.
15033235	The plant growth-promoting soil bacterium Azospirillum brasilense enhances growth of economically important crops, such as wheat, corn and rice. In order to improve plant growth, a close bacterial association with the plant roots is needed. Genes encoded on a 90-MDa plasmid, denoted pRhico plasmid, present in A. brasilense Sp7, play an important role in plant root interaction. Sequencing, annotation and in silico analysis of this 90-MDa plasmid revealed the presence of a large collection of genes encoding enzymes involved in surface polysaccharide biosynthesis. Analysis of the 90-MDa plasmid genome provided evidence for its essential role in the viability of the bacterial cell.
15033524	Proteins that form part of the chloroplast proteome can be identified by computational prediction of the N-terminal presequences (chloroplast transit peptides, cTPs) of their cytoplasmic precursor proteins. The accuracy of four different cTP predictors has been evaluated on a test set of 4500 proteins whose subcellular localization is known, and was found to be substantially lower than previously reported. A combination of cTP prediction programs was superior to any one of the predictors alone. This combination was employed to estimate the size and composition of the chloroplast proteomes of Arabidopsis and rice, and about 2100 (Arabidopsis thaliana) and 4800 (Oryza sativa) different chloroplast proteins with a cTP are predicted to be encoded by their nuclear genomes. A subset of around 900 chloroplast proteins, predominantly derived from the cyanobacterial endosymbiont and with functions mostly related to metabolism, energy and transcription, is shared by the two species. This points to the existence of both conserved nucleus-encoded chloroplast proteins that are predominantly of prokaryotic origin, and a large fraction of taxon-specific chloroplast-targeted proteins, in flowering plants.
15034715	The nine class-I maize (Zea mays L.) knox genes are putative transcription factors normally expressed in shoot apices, but not in leaves. knotted1 (kn1) seems to function in shoot apical meristem maintenance, and rough sheath1 (rs1)-like genes may act in internode elongation. The function of liguleless3 (lg3)-type genes is still unknown. Here, we characterized lg3 as well as the two most closely related genes liguleless4a (lg4a, formerly knox11) and liguleless4b (lg4b, formerly knox5). We termed this subclass of knox genes lg3/4 genes. We studied the expression patterns of lg3/4 genes and compared their sequences. We obtained knockout mutants of lg3 by finding Mu transposon insertions into exons. Our results show that lg3 was not essential for plant development, and that lg4a and lg4b were likely to encode the redundant function. In addition, lg4a but not lg4b was ectopically expressed in the Lg4-O mutant, suggesting that this mutant was affected at the lg4a locus. We found that the lg3 gene was unique among knox genes as it was co-induced in the leaves of leaf mutants that ectopically expressed knox genes in the leaves. The leaf phenotype expressed in the dominant Rs1-O mutant was not altered when lg3 function was removed using the knockout. Genomic sequence comparisons of lg3, lg4a and lg4b from maize and the two homologous genes, osh6 and osh71, from rice revealed a 14-bp phylogenetic footprint in intron II. This sequence was conserved in nucleotide composition, position and polarity in the lg3/4 genes of divergent grasses representing six Gramineae subfamilies. In an independent experiment, this same conserved sequence was found in a yeast reverse one-hybrid screen for putative binding sites of the LG3 homeodomain protein. Distribution of this 14-bp sequence was examined within the public rice database. The possible function of this sequence in regulation of lg3/4 genes is discussed.
15034748	The application of aminoglycoside-3"-adenyltransferase (aadA) gene-mediated streptomycin resistance for non-lethal selection of transgenic rice resulted in plant regeneration frequencies under selection pressure as high as those in non-transformed controls without selection. Since streptomycin does not kill non-transgenic cells, and allows plant regeneration from them, a selection procedure was developed that made the visual identification of transgenic calli and regenerants possible. For callus-level selection, a vital pH indicator-Chlorophenol Red-was applied together with streptomycin, making use of the phenomenon that fast-growing cell lines lower the pH in the culture medium. Transgenic plants were selected according to their main distinctive features; their green colour (photomixotrophic assimilation), and more intense growth. At the same time, non-transgenic regenerants were bleached (heterotrophic assimilation), and growth was retarded in the presence of streptomycin and sucrose. The final efficiency of genetic transformation based on streptomycin resistance was found to be double that of transformations where the selective agent was l-phosphinothricin, and nearly three times more compared to transformations resulting in hygromycin-resistant regenerants. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on producing nuclear transformed rice plants by using a non-lethal selection strategy based on the chimaeric aadA gene.
15037733	Understanding the organization of eukaryotic centromeres has both fundamental and applied importance because of their roles in chromosome segregation, karyotypic stability, and artificial chromosome-based cloning and expression vectors. Using clone-by-clone sequencing methodology, we obtained the complete genomic sequence of the centromeric region of rice (Oryza sativa) chromosome 8. Analysis of 1.97 Mb of contiguous nucleotide sequence revealed three large clusters of CentO satellite repeats (68.5 kb of 155-bp repeats) and >220 transposable element (TE)-related sequences; together, these account for approximately 60% of this centromeric region. The 155-bp repeats were tandemly arrayed head to tail within the clusters, which had different orientations and were interrupted by TE-related sequences. The individual 155-bp CentO satellite repeats showed frequent transitions and transversions at eight nucleotide positions. The 40 TE elements with highly conserved sequences were mostly gypsy-type retrotransposons. Furthermore, 48 genes, showing high BLAST homology to known proteins or to rice full-length cDNAs, were predicted within the region; some were close to the CentO clusters. We then performed a genome-wide survey of the sequences and organization of CentO and RIRE7 families. Our study provides the complete sequence of a centromeric region from either plants or animals and likely will provide insight into the evolutionary and functional analysis of plant centromeres.
15038587	This study examined the comparative efficacies of rice-based oral rehydration solution (R-ORS) and glucose-based oral rehydration solution (G-ORS) in the management of severe cholera due to Vibrio cholerae O139 Bengal that causes epidemic cholera in many developing countries. Stool culture-proved adult male patients with severe cholera due to V. cholerae O139 Bengal were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either R-ORS or G-ORS after their initial rehydration with intravenous (i.v.) fluid and subsequently four hours of observation. They also received the usual hospital diet and tetracycline capsules (500 mg 6 hourly for three days) immediately after their enrollment in the study. The primary outcomes for observation were stool output during the first 24 hours after intervention and treatment failure as measured by the incidence of re-institution of i.v. fluid after initiation of trial therapy and duration of diarrhoea. Of 113 patients finally included in the study, 57 received R-ORS and 56 G-ORS. The admission characteristics of the two treatment groups were comparable. No significant differences in the first 24 hours of median (inter-quartile range) stool output [179 (67-206) g/kg in R-ORS group vs 193 (80-237) g/kg in G-ORS group; p = 0.52], incidences of unscheduled i.v. fluid requirement [21% (12/57) in R-ORS group vs 25% (14/56) in G-ORS group; p = 0.78], and median (inter-quartile range) duration of diarrhoea [32 (24-48) hours in R-ORS group vs 32 (24-56) hours in G-ORS group; p = 0.64] were observed. It is concluded that rice-based ORS is effective but not superior to standard glucose-based ORS in the management of adult males with severe cholera due to V. cholerae O139 Bengal.
15039991	Monopterus albus has to deal with high environmental ammonia concentrations during dry seasons and agricultural fertilization in rice fields. In this study, NH4HCO3 (10 micromol per g fish) was injected into the peritoneal cavity of M. albus, raising the level of ammonia in the body, in order to elucidate the strategies involved in defense against the toxicity of exogenous ammonia. During the subsequent 24 h after NH4HCO3 injection, there was a significant increase in the ammonia excretion rate, which indicates that the main strategy adopted by M. albus was to remove the majority of the exogenous ammonia through enhanced ammonia excretion. Exogenous ammonia was not detoxified into urea for excretion or accumulation. Six hours post-injection of NH4HCO3, ammonia content in the tissues built up significantly, especially in the brain, which suggests that M. albus had high tolerance of ammonia toxicity at the cellular and sub-cellular levels. By hour 12 post-injection, there were significant increases in the activities of glutamine synthetase in the muscle, liver, and gut, accompanied by significant increases in glutamine contents in the muscle and the liver. There was also a significant increase in the glutamine content in the brain at hour 6 post-injection of NH4HCO3. These results confirm the capability of M. albus to detoxify ammonia through glutamine synthesis. Overall, injection of NH4HCO3 had only minor effects on the contents of FAAs, other than glutamine, in tissues of M. albus because the majority (70%) of the injected ammonia was excreted within the 24-h period.
15040560	During the last decade, major progress in malaria control has been achieved in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. However, malaria is still a potentially fatal disease in some hilly-forested areas and continues to be endemic in a few coastal foci. To estimate the risk that stems from the major vectors after a decade of intensive malaria control, an entomological study based on human landing collections was conducted between April 1998 and November 2000 in six study villages (four in Vietnam, one in Cambodia and one in Laos) located in different physio-geographical areas. Five villages were selected in places where new cases of malaria still occurred. In the sixth village, in the northern hilly area of Vietnam, no case of malaria was detected during the past 3 years. In three study villages of the hilly forested areas of Cambodia and central Vietnam, Anopheles dirus A still played an important role in malaria transmission and maintain perennial transmission inside the villages despite its low density. Anopheles minimus A was found in all study villages except in the southern coastal village of Vietnam. Its role in malaria transmission, however, varied between localities and surveys. In one study village of central Vietnam it was almost absent (one specimen collected over 480 man nights), and in another village sporozoite positive specimens (2.8%) were only observed during the first two surveys whereas this species disappeared from the collections from November 1998 onwards (six surveys: 360 man nights). In the northern study site An. minimus A and C were found in all collections, but no local malaria transmission occurred. However, the constant presence of these two species associated with a high longevity (parous rate up around 80% and 65%, respectively), suggests that transmission can occur at almost any time if parasite reservoirs are reintroduced in the area. The proper management of malaria cases and population movement is, therefore, important to prevent outbreaks and the reintroduction of malaria in northern Vietnam. In the study site of the Mekong delta, An. sundaicus occurred at high densities (up to 190 bites/man/night). The recent changes in land use from rice cultivation to shrimp farming probably explains the increase of this brackish water breeding species during the study period. However, none of the 11,002 specimens was positive for Plasmodium circumsporozoite protein (CSP). The relative low survival rate as estimated by the parous rate (around 47%) may reflect its low vectorial status that could explain the very low malaria incidence (1.9 case/100 persons/year) in this study site. A calculated sporozoite rate of maximum 1/300,000 is enough to explain this low malaria incidence. Despite the successes in malaria control, the vector An. dirus A continues to play an important role in malaria transmission, whereas An. minimus A showed temporal and spatial variation in its role as vector. The role of An. sundaicus as vector could not be confirmed because of the low incidence in the coastal study village. Other Anopheles species may be locally involved, but in the five study villages where malaria is still present they probably do not contribute significantly to malaria transmission. The study also points towards the fact that in Southeast Asia it will become increasingly difficult to incriminate Anopheles species in malaria transmission while the risk for malaria transmission still persist.
15040813	LTR Retrotransposons transpose through reverse transcription of an RNA intermediate and are ubiquitous components of all eukaryotic genomes thus far examined. Plant genomes, in particular, have been found to be comprised of a remarkably high number of LTR retrotransposons. There is a significant body of direct and indirect evidence that LTR retrotransposons have contributed to gene and genome evolution in plants. To explore the evolutionary history of long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons and their impact on the genome of Oryza sativa, we have extended an earlier computer-based survey to include all identifiable full-length, fragmented and solo LTR elements in the rice genome database as of April 2002. A total of 1,219 retroelement sequences were identified, including 217 full-length elements, 822 fragmented elements, and 180 solo LTRs. In order to gain insight into the chromosomal distribution of LTR-retrotransposons in the rice genome, a detailed examination of LTR-retrotransposon sequences on Chromosome 10 was carried out. An average of 22.3 LTR-retrotransposons per Mb were detected in Chromosome 10. Gypsy-like elements were found to be >4 x more abundant than copia-like elements. Eleven of the thirty-eight investigated LTR-retrotransposon families displayed significant subfamily structure. We estimate that at least 46.5% of LTR-retrotransposons in the rice genome are older than the age of the species (< 680,000 years). LTR-retrotransposons present in the rice genome range in age from those just recently inserted up to nearly 10 million years old. Approximately 20% of LTR retrotransposon sequences lie within putative genes. The distribution of elements across chromosome 10 is non-random with the highest density (48 elements per Mb) being present in the pericentric region.
15040887	Alpha-picolinic acid (PA), a metabolite of tryptophan and an inducer of apoptosis in the animal cell, has been reported to be a toxin produced by some of plant fungal pathogens and used in screening for disease resistant mutants. Here, we report that PA is an efficient apoptosis agent triggering cell death of hypersensitive-like response in planta. Confirmed by Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter (FACS), rice suspension cells and leaves exhibited programmed cell death induced by PA. The PA-induced cell death was associated with the accumulation of reactive oxygen species that could be blocked by diphenylene iodonium chloride, indicating that the generation of reactive oxygen species was NADPH-oxidase dependent. We also demonstrated the induction of rice defense-related genes and subsequent resistant enhancement by PA against the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. Hence, it was concluded that the PA-stimulated defense response likely involves the onset of the hypersensitive response in rice, which also provides a simple eliciting tool for studying apoptosis in the plant cell.
15042057
15042416	The activity of indole-3-acetamide (IAM) hydrolase from rice cells was enriched ca. 628-fold by gel filtration and anion exchange column chromatography. The molecular masses of the IAM hydrolase estimated by gel filtration and sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis were approximately 50.5 kD and 50.0 kD, respectively. The enzyme exhibited maximum activity at pH 6.0-6.5. The enzyme was stable against heat treatments between 4 and 50 degrees C and works optimally at 52 degrees C. The activity remained constant at 4 degrees C for at least 143 days. The purified enzyme fraction hydrolyzed indoleacetic acid ethyl ester (Et-IAA) in addition to IAM and its homologue, 1-naphthalene-acetamide, but not indole-3-acetonitrile. Km values of the enzyme were 0.96 mM and 0.55 mM for IAM and Et-IAA, respectively. Although the molecular mass of the enzyme was very similar to that of IAM hydrolase of Agrobacterium tumefaciens involved in tumor formation, the biochemical properties of the enzyme including its high Km value were considerably different from those of the A. tumefaciens enzyme. Based on these enzyme properties, we will discuss whether the amidohydrolase is involved in auxin biosynthesis in rice cells.
15043438	The structures of two enantiomeric azetidine-type amino acids isolated from the n-butanol-soluble fraction of the 70% ethanol extract of red-mold rice fermented with Monascus pilosus were established to be (+)- [1; (+)-monascumic acid] and (-)-syn-2-isobutyl-4-methylazetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acids [2; (-)-monascumic acid] based on spectroscopic methods.
15045490	Type 1 (archaeal) rhodopsins and related rhodopsin-like proteins had been described in a few halophile archaea, gamma-proteobacteria, a single cyanobacteria, some fungi, and a green alga. In exhaustive database searches, we detected rhodopsin-related sequences derived not only from additional fungal species but also from organisms belonging to three groups in which opsins had hitherto not been described: the alpha-proteobacterium Magnetospirillum magnetotacticum, the cryptomonad alga Guillardia theta, and the dinoflagellate Pyrocystis lunula. Putative plant and human type 1 rhodopsin sequences found in the databases are demonstrated to be contaminants of fungal origin. However, a highly diverged sequence supposedly from the plant Oryza sativa was found that is, together with the Pyrocystis sequence, quite similar to gamma-proteobacterial rhodopsins. These close relationships suggest that at least one horizontal gene transfer event involving rhodopsin genes occurred between prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Alternative hypotheses to explain the current phylogenetic range of type 1 rhodopsins are suggested. The broader phylogenetic range found is compatible with an ancient origin of type 1 rhodopsins, their patchy distribution being caused by losses in multiple lineages. However, the possibility of ancient horizontal transfer events between distant relatives cannot be dismissed.
15045523	Proteins induced in rice by auxin and zinc were determined by proteome analysis. Cultured suspension cells of rice were treated with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and ZnSO4 and then proteins were separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; seven proteins were found to be induced by auxin and zinc. Of these seven, methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase (MMSDH) was elevated by treatment with auxin alone. MMSDH was detected in cultured suspension cells, root and leaf sheath, but not in leaf blades. MMSDH responded to auxin and gibberellin, but did not respond to brassinolide and cytokinin. Furthermore, the amount of MMSDH in slr1, a constitutive gibberellin response mutant, was 2-fold that of wild type. MMSDH mRNA and protein were stimulated in root formation induced by auxin and/or zinc over a 4-week period. These results suggest that MMSDH may be necessary for root formation in rice induced by auxin and/or zinc.
15046303	The microbiota of two industrially processed rice sourdoughs was characterised by bacteriological culture in combination with PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and 16S/28S rDNA sequence analysis. Rice sourdough I was continuously propagated for several years by back-slopping every week, whereas sourdough II was processed by using a commercial starter culture and back-slopping daily for three days. In rice sourdough II Candida krusei and Saccharomyces cerevisiae as well as Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus gallinarum, Lactobacillus kimchii, Lactobacillus plantarum, and Lactobacillus pontis dominated at the first day of fermentation. RAPD analysis of lactobacilli revealed identical profiles for each of the species except for L. fermentum and L. pontis indicating the presence of different strains. Fluctuations within the LAB community during fermentation were monitored by PCR-DGGE. L. pontis decreased in numbers over time and L. curvatus became dominant after 3 days of fermentation. Rice sourdough I contained S. cerevisiae, Lactobacillus paracasei (present with three different RAPD types), Lactobacillus paralimentarius, and a Lactobacillus strain which could not be allotted to any valid species. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rDNA sequences revealed Lactobacillus brevis as the closest relative (97.3% sequence similarity). Differences in some phenotypic characteristics and DNA-DNA relatedness indicated that the strain represents a new Lactobacillus species, for which the name Lactobacillus spicheri is proposed.
15046314	To carry out the physiological characterization of Fusarium graminearum and F. culmorum isolates with regard to its zearalenone producing ability, an in-depth experiment with a full factorial design was conducted. The effects and mutual interactions of temperature, moisture, substrate and isolate on the production of the toxin were studied. The study was done with twelve isolates of Fusarium (7 of F. graminearum and 5 of F. culmorum). The analysis of variance shows that there is a complex interaction of all of these factors, which can influence the relative concentrations of the mycotoxin produced, and hence, the correct physiological characterization of the strain. All the tested cultures were susceptible to invasion by Fusarium. The moisture content of grains (water activity values 0.960, 0.970 and 0.980) did not constitute a limiting factor for fungal growth or ZEA production, but incubation temperature (15 degrees C, 20 degrees C, 28 degrees C, and 32 degrees C) affected the rate of zearalenone synthesis. Very low or undetectable ZEA production was observed at 32 degrees C. All tested isolates showed a characteristic behavior concerning the optimum temperature for ZEA production, which was usually 20 degrees C maintained during the whole incubation period. This finding, which does not agree with other reports obtained with strains from different origins, suggests that there are genetic differences that would explain the particular physiological behavior of each isolate related to the optimal production conditions for ZEA. The existence of significant differences regarding the susceptibility of the assayed cereal grains (wheat, corn and rice) used for ZEA production by the different Fusarium species (F. graminearum and F. culmorum) is described for the first time in this paper.
15046315	The capacity of bee pollen as a substrate for production of ochratoxin A (OTA) by a strain of Aspergillus ochraceus was studied. For control purposes corn, wheat and rice grains, and eleven liquid media were assayed. They were Yeast Extract Sucrose broth (YES), YES supplemented with 0.05, 0.1, 0.5, 1 and 5% bee pollen, YES supplemented with 0.5% peptone, 50% must, Wickerham medium, Aflatoxin Production medium and Coconut Broth Medium. Cultures were maintained at 28 degrees C for 4 weeks and were analyzed every seven days for OTA by liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. OTA production in bee pollen was significantly (P < 0.01) higher than production in corn, wheat and rice grains regardless of incubation time. With regard to liquid cultures, OTA accumulation in YES supplemented with 5% bee pollen was significantly higher than in pollen-free liquid cultures. A positive correlation between the proportion of pollen added to YES medium and OTA level was observed. This is the first report concerning the use of bee pollen as a substrate to stimulate OTA production. On the basis of the preliminary results obtained in this study it can be hypothesized that bee pollen may constitute an important risk factor concerning the presence of OTA in the diet of consumers of that nutritious food.
15047141	Plant jasmonic acid (JA) and structurally similar animal prostaglandins play pivotal roles in regulating cellular responses against environmental cues, including the innate immune response(s). In plants, JA and its immediate precursor 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid (OPDA) are synthesized by the octadecanoid pathway, which employs at least five enzymes (lipase, lipoxygenase, allene oxide synthase and cyclase, and OPDA reductase), in addition to the enzymes involved in the beta-oxidation steps. Genetic, molecular, and biochemical analyses have led to the identification of almost all the genes of the octadecanoid pathway in Arabidopsis--a model dicotyledonous plant. In this regard, rice (Oryza sativa L.)--an important socio-economic monocotyledonous model research plant--remains poorly characterized. Until now, no gene has been specifically associated with this pathway. It is therefore of utmost importance to identify, characterize, and assign the pathway specific genes in rice. In this review, we have surveyed the rice genome, extracted a large number of putative genes of the octadecanoid pathway, and discussed their relationship with the known pathway genes from other plant species. Moreover, the achievements made so far on the rice octadecanoid pathway have also been summarized to reflect the contribution of rice towards extending our knowledge on this critical pathway in plants.
15047678	Well-meaning but inadequately informed parents may perceive plant-based beverages such as soy beverages (SB) or rice beverages (RB) as an alternative to infant formula. Manganese (Mn) is an essential mineral nutrient found at high levels in plants such as soy and rice. Excessive Mn exposure increases the risk of adverse neurological effects. We analysed, by atomic absorption spectrometry, the Mn content of 36 SB, 5 RB, 6 evaporated milks (EM), 14 soy-based infant formulas (SF) and 16 milk-based infant formulas (MF), obtained from commercial outlets in Ottawa, Canada. SB had the highest levels of Mn (16.5 +/- 8.6 micro g/g dry wt, mean +/- s.d.), followed by RB (9.9 +/- 1.7 micro g/g dry wt). Mn levels of individual SB/RB ranged from 2 to 17 times the mean Mn content of SF (2.4 +/- 0.7 micro g/g dry wt) and 7 to 56 times that of MF (0.70 +/- 0.35 micro g/g dry wt). EM contained very little Mn (0.02 +/- 0.03 micro g/g dry wt). Calculated mean Mn intakes from SB/RB by infants up to 6 months of age, assuming complete substitution of these products (0.78 L/day), approached the Tolerable Upper Intake Level (UL) for 1-3 year olds (no UL for Mn is available for infants under 1 year of age). Expressed as micro g Mn/100 kcal, SB/RB exceeded the range derived from ULs and typical energy intakes of 1-3 year olds. SB/RB should not be fed to infants because they are nutritionally inadequate and contain Mn at levels which may present an increased risk of adverse neurological effects if used as a sole source of nutrition.
15047876	EIN2 is a central signal transducer in the ethylene-signaling pathway, and a unique membrane-anchored protein. By screening a cDNA library, we have isolated a cDNA clone (OsEIN2) that encodes the rice EIN2 homolog. The full-length ORF clone was obtained by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. OsEIN2 shares significant amino acid sequence similarity with Arabidopsis EIN2 (57% similarity and 42% identity). Both the numbers and positions of introns and exons in the OsEIN2 and AtEIN2 coding regions are also conserved. To address whether this structural similarity is indicative of functional conservation of the corresponding proteins, we also generated transgenic lines expressing the antisense construct of OsEIN2. Those plants were stunted and shoot elongation was severely inhibited. Their phenotypes were similar to that found with wild-type rice seedlings that were treated with AgNO3, an ethylene signal inhibitor. In the OsEIN2 antisense plants, the expression levels of two ethylene-responsive genes, SC129 and SC255, were decreased compared with the wild types. These results suggest that OsEIN2 is a positive component of the ethylene-signaling pathway in rice, just as AtEIN2 is in Arabidopsis: Our antisense transgenic plants produced approximately 3.5 times more ethylene than the wild-type plants. Expression analysis of rice ACS and ACO genes showed that the transcript levels of OsACS1 and OsACO1 were elevated in the transgenic plants.
15047885	The circumnutation of a rice root under dark conditions was observed using a highly sensitive camera, a new super-HARP camera. A rice root showed regular rhythmic movement with fixed angle. When treated with Al (5 microM AlCl3), the rotation angle of the root tip was drastically decreased and then the movement was resumed again, whereas the root elongation rate was constant. With the increase of Al concentration, the cycle-fading period became shorter. This is the first report to show that an Al treatment ceased the rotation movement of the root but not elongation.
15047897	The molecular mechanism by which GA regulates plant growth and development has been a subject of active research. Analyses of the rice (Oryza sativa) genomic sequences identified 77 WRKY genes, among which OsWRKY71 is highly expressed in aleurone cells. Transient expression of OsWRKY71 by particle bombardment specifically represses GA-induced Amy32b alpha-amylase promoter but not abscisic acid-induced HVA22 or HVA1 promoter activity in aleurone cells. Moreover, OsWRKY71 blocks the activation of the Amy32b promoter by the GA-inducible transcriptional activator OsGAMYB. Consistent with its role as a transcriptional repressor, OsWRKY71 is localized to nuclei of aleurone cells and binds specifically to functionally defined TGAC-containing W boxes of the Amy32b promoter in vitro. Mutation of the two W boxes prevents the binding of OsWRKY71 to the mutated promoter, and releases the suppression of the OsGAMYB-activated Amy32b expression by OsWRKY71, suggesting that OsWRKY71 blocks GA signaling by functionally interfering with OsGAMYB. Exogenous GA treatment decreases the steady-state mRNA level of OsWRKY71 and destabilizes the GFP:OsWRKY71 fusion protein. These findings suggest that OsWRKY71 encodes a transcriptional repressor of GA signaling in aleurone cells.
15049918	Anoxic soils in river floodplains (or riparian soils) are a source of methane emission. However, little is known about the ecology and community structure of archaeal methanogenic microbes, which are a crucial component of methane flux in those habitats. We studied the archaeal community in the vertical profile of four different sites along the River Waal in the Netherlands. These sites differ in their annual flooding regime ranging from never or seldom to permanently flooded. The archaeal community structure has been characterized by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and comparative sequence analysis of the archaeal SSU rRNA gene and the mcrA gene. The latter gene codes for the alpha-subunit of methyl-coenzyme M reductase. Additionally, the potential methanogenic activity was determined by incubation of soil slurries under anoxic conditions. The community composition differed only slightly with the depth of the soil (0-20 cm). However, the diversity of archaeal SSU rRNA genes increased with the frequency of flooding. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of mcrA gene amplicons confirmed the results concerning methanogenic archaea. In the never and rarely flooded soils, crenarchaeotal sequences were the dominant group. In the frequently and permanently flooded soils, Methanomicrobiaceae, Methanobacteriaceae, Methanosarcinaceae and the uncultured Rice Clusters IV and VI (Crenarchaeota) were detectable independently from duration of anoxic conditions. Methanosaetaceae, on the other hand, were only found in the permanently and frequently flooded soils under conditions where concentrations of acetate were < 30 microM. The results indicate that methanogens as well as other archaea occupy characteristic niches according to the flooding conditions in the field. Methanosaetaceae, in particular, seem to be adapted (or proliferate at) to low acetate concentrations.
15050391	The Axios river basin is an area of high agricultural importance for Macedonia, Northern Greece. High priced crops such as cotton, corn, sugarbeets, vegetables and rice are rotated with cereals and alfalfa and thus a great variety of pesticides are used annually for the control of pests and diseases. Moreover, the groundwater resources of the specific area constitute the main source of potable water for the surrounding cities and villages. Therefore, a study was initiated to investigate the probable risks of groundwater contamination with pesticides. The leaching of pesticides from agricultural soils was monitored in the phreatic horizon as well as in soil water samples collected with suction lysimeters. In parallel studies, the presence of pesticides in the irrigation water and the water of Axios river was also monitored. Pesticides like carbofuran, atrazine, alachlor and prometryne, which were regularly applied in the northern part of the basin during 1992-1994 were detected at concentrations occasionally exceeding 1 microg/l in soil water from the deeper soil layers and in the phreatic horizon. Residues of pesticides others than the ones applied in the studied area like propanil, terbufos and paraoxon-methyl were also detected at the deeper soil layers and in the phreatic horizon. The latter pesticides were also detected at significant concentrations in the irrigation water which mainly consisted of riverine water. The lack of an independent soil draining system and the use of riverine water for irrigation purposes resulted in the redistribution of residual amounts of these pesticides in the phreatic horizon beneath the agricultural area.
15050392	A monitoring study was conducted during 1992-1994 in the south part of the Axios river basin, which constitutes one of the main rice-cultivated basins of Greece. The potential of pesticides to contaminate groundwater resources was assessed under realistic agricultural conditions using suction lysimeters. Pesticide residues were also measured in local drainage canals, the phreatic horizon and Axios river. Carbofuran, atrazine, alachlor, prometryne and propanil were regularly detected at concentrations exceeding 1 microg/l in the soil water of deeper soil layers and in the phreatic horizon of the fields. Residues of those pesticides were measured in the soil water and the phreatic horizon of all the studied fields even though they had only been applied in certain fields. This almost uniform distribution of pesticide residues across the whole of the studied area was attributed to rice cultivation. Soil water and its pesticidal content was horizontally transported from saturated soil conditions beneath rice paddies to adjacent corn or cotton-cultivated fields with lower soil moisture contents. The presence of high pesticide concentrations in the water of the Axios river, which was used for the irrigation of the studied area, had probably contributed to the generalized pesticide contamination of the soil water in the studied area. These results suggest that there is a high risk for groundwater contamination in the basin.
15051048	The rice (Oryza sativa L.) catalase (EC 1.11.1.6) gene CatB is expressed in roots and cultured cells. We examined the promoter activity of its 5'-flanking region in a monocot and in two dicots. Transient expression assays in rice Oc and tobacco BY-2 suspension cell protoplasts showed that CatB's 5'-flanking DNA fragments (nucleotides -1066 to +298) had about 20 and 3-4 times as much promoter activity, respectively, as the CaMV 35S promoter. Serial deletion analyses of the CatB promoter region revealed that the shortest fragment (-56 to +298) still had about 10 times as much promoter activity as the CaMV 35S promoter in rice protoplasts. In tobacco protoplasts, the activity of the fragment (-56 to +298) was about half of the CaMV 35S promoter. Transgenic rice and Arabidopsis plants carrying GUS genes driven by the 5'-truncated CatB promoters were generated and their GUS activity was examined. The region ranging from -329 to +298 showed preferential expression in the roots of rice and Arabidopsis, and in the shoot apical meristems of Arabidopsis. In situ hybridization revealed that CatB was highly expressed in branch root primordia and root apices of rice. Fusion of the GUS gene to the region (-329 to +298) conferred strong expression in these same areas, indicating that the presence of this region was sufficient to express CatB specifically in the roots. There may be new regulatory element(s) in this region, because it contained no previously known cis-regulatory elements specific for gene expression in roots.
15051080	Composting of rice straw with poultry manure and oilseed rape cake and its effects on growth and yield of faba bean and soil properties was studied in pot experiments at Gifu University, Japan in 2001/2002. The composts reached maturity in 90 days, were rich in organic matter and mineral nutrients, had a high level of stability, and no phytotoxicity. The addition of compost (20-200 g pot(-1)) improved selected soil chemical (increased total N, total C and CEC), physical (decreased particle density) and biological (increased soil respiration rate) properties. Application of composts at a rate of 20 g pot(-1) significantly increased growth, yield, yield components and total crude protein of faba bean plants. The benefit of this compost without chemical fertilizer demonstrated the validity and possibility of sustainable agronomic performance of faba bean using locally available recycled organic materials.
15051085	A field experiment was conducted on rice-wheat system at Modipuram, India in Typic Ustochrept. Sesbania was intercropping in direct seeded rice for green manuring with 3 levels of Urea N (i.e., O, 60, 120 and 180 KgNha(-1)). Sesbania was turned in the soil after 30 days of sowing. Grain yields of rice and wheat were significantly greater in plots receiving green manuring than that without green manuring. In general, advantages of green manuring were greater at low levels of N than at higher levels, and the residual effect of green manuring on succeeding wheat was very small.
15051402	Microcystins are naturally occurring hepatotoxic cyclic heptapeptides produced by some toxic freshwater cyanobacterial species. In this study, crude extract of toxic cyanobacterial blooms from Dianchi Lake in southwestern China was used to determine the effects of microcystins on rape (Brassica napus L.) and rice (Oryza sativa L.). Experiments were carried out on a range of doses of the extract (equivalent to 0, 0.024, 0.12, 0.6 and 3 microg MC-LR/ml). Investigations showed that exposure to microcystins inhibited the growth and development of both rice and rape seedlings, however, microcystins had more powerful inhibition effect on rape than rice in germination percentage of seeds and seedling height. Microcystins significantly inhibited the elongation of primary roots of rape and rice seedlings. Determination of the activities of peroxidase and superoxide dismutase demonstrated that microcystin stress was manifested as an oxidative stress. Using ELISA, microcystins were examined from the extract of exposed rape and rice seedlings, indicating that consumption of edible plants exposed to microcystins via irrigation route may have health risks. Significantly different levels of recovered microcystins between exposed rice and rape seedlings suggested that there might be different tolerant mechanisms toward microcystins.
15052440	Although Helicobacter pylori infection is a major risk factor for gastric cancer, it does not explain the full picture of stomach carcinogenesis. There have been few epidemiological studies, however, which examined both H. pylori and environmental factors simultaneously. The aims of this study were to estimate the association of environmental factors (smoking and dietary factors) with gastric cancer in consideration of H. pylori infection, and to investigate the effects of the interaction between environmental factors and H. pylori infection. A multicenter, hospital-based, case-control study of gastric cancer was conducted at four hospitals in Nagano prefecture, Japan, between October 1998 and March 2002. For 153 newly diagnosed gastric cancer cases, two controls matched by age (within 3 years), sex, and residence area were randomly selected from the participants of a health check-up program during the same period in the same hospitals. We conducted a questionnaire survey and obtained blood samples. Consequently, 122 non-cardia gastric cancer cases and 235 controls were available for this analysis. Results. H. pylori infection was strongly associated with non-cardia gastric cancer after adjustment for possible confounding factors (odds ratio [OR], 8.2; 95% confidence interval [CI], 3.7-18.2). Cigarette smoking (OR, 2.8; 95% CI, 1.2-6.5) and frequent intake of miso (fermented soy bean) soup (OR, 2.1; 95% CI, 0.9-5.1) and rice (OR, 2.5; 95% CI, 1.0-6.1) were determined to be risk factors even after adjusting for possible confounding factors, including H. pylori infection. However, no statistically significant interaction between environmental factors and H. pylori infection was detected. This finding suggests that although H. pylori infection is clearly an important risk factor for gastric cancer, smoking cessation and dietary modification may be practical strategies for the prevention of non-cardia gastric cancer among both H. pylori-positive and -negative subjects in Japan.
15053301	The modifying effects of administrating an ethyl acetate extract of "Kurosu" (EK), a vinegar made from unpolished rice, on development of azoxymethane (AOM)-induced colonic aberrant crypt foci (ACF) were investigated in male F344 rats. We also assessed the effects of EK on proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) index in ACF, prostaglandin (PG) E2 expression in the colonic mucosa and activities of detoxifying enzymes of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and quinone reductase (QR) in the liver. To induce ACF, rats were given two weekly subcutaneous injections of AOM (20 mg/kg body wt). They also received drinking water containing 0, 0.05, 0.1 or 0.2% EK for 4 weeks, starting 1 week before the first dosing of AOM. AOM exposure produced 140 +/- 23 ACF/rat at the end of the study (week 4). EK administration dose-dependently inhibited ACF formation and inhibition by 0.2% EK was statistically significant (P < 0.002). Treatment with EK significantly lowered PCNA index in ACF and reduced PGE2 content in the colonic mucosa, while EK elevated liver GST and QR activities. These findings suggest that EK may be effective for inhibiting colonic ACF, through induction of liver GST and QR and possibly alteration of PGE2 production.
15053318	A new Klebsiella species, K. variicola, is proposed on the basis of total DNA-DNA hybridization, on the monophyly observed in the phylogenetic analysis derived from the sequences of rpoB, gyrA, mdh, infB, phoE and nifH genes and on distinct phenotypic traits. The bacteria from this new species seem to be genetically isolated from K. pneumoniae strains, do not ferment adonitol and were obtained from plants (such as banana, rice, sugar cane and maize) and hospitals. The type strain is F2R9T (= ATCC BAA-830T = CFNE 2004T).
15054237	The fungal production of fumaric acid using rice bran and subsequent bacterial conversion of succinic acid using fungal culture broth were investigated. Since the rice bran contains abundant proteins, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals, it is suitable material that fungi use as a nitrogen source. The effective concentration of rice bran to produce fumaric acid was 5 g/L. A large amount of rice bran caused excessive fungal growth rather than enhance fumaric acid production. In addition, we could produce fumaric acid without the addition of zinc and iron. Fungal culture broth containing approx 25 g/L of fumaric acid was directly employed for succinic acid conversion. The amount of glycerol and yeast extract required for succinic acid conversion was reduced to 70 and 30%, respectively, compared with the amounts cited in previous studies.
15054349	We conducted a 6-month randomized, double-blind, parallel trial in which subjects consumed their usual diet plus arabinogalactan, a functional fiber isolated from either larch or tamarack. Healthy human subjects (28 men, 26 women) ages 18 to 55 years old consumed 8.4 g/day larch arabinogalactan (n=18), tamarack arabinogalactan (n=19), or a placebo of rice starch (n=17). Serum cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoprotein B, apolipoprotein A-I, glucose, and insulin were measured monthly. Three-day food records, body weight, blood pressure, and gastrointestinal symptom surveys were obtained monthly. Serum lipids seemed to decrease at month 2, but there were no statistically significant differences among diets for any measured endpoint. Arabinogalactan is a recognized soluble fiber and is currently being used in products because it is not viscous, is easily incorporated into foods and beverages, and is well accepted by consumers.
15054431	New findings, that relate poor foetal growth to long-term outcomes, highlight the need to understand more about the nature of women's diets before and during pregnancy. This study examines the influence of sociodemographic and anthropometric factors on the quality of the diets of young women in the UK. Diet was assessed by an interviewer-administered food frequency questionnaire. A single diet score was calculated for each woman using the first component defined by principal components analysis. Southampton, UK. A total of 6125 non pregnant women aged 20-34 y. The diets of women with low diet scores were characterised by low intakes of fruit and vegetables, wholemeal bread, rice and pasta, yogurt, and breakfast cereals, but high intakes of chips and roast potatoes, sugar, white bread, red, and processed meat and full-fat dairy products. Educational attainment was the most important factor related to the diet score. In all, 55% (95% CI 50-59%) of women with no educational qualifications had scores in the lowest quarter of the distribution, compared with only 3% (95% CI 2-4%) of those who had a degree. Smoking, watching television, lack of strenuous exercise, and living with children were also associated with lower diet scores. After taking these factors into account, no other factor including social class, the deprivation score of the neighbourhood, or receipt of benefits added more than 1% to the variance in the diet score. Poor achievement at school defines a substantial group of women in the UK who may be vulnerable. Many of these women have poor diets that are not simply a result of the level of deprivation in their neighbourhood, or of living at a level of poverty that entitles them to benefits. We suggest that it is a priority to identify and to address the barriers that prevent these women from improving the quality of their diets. The study was funded by the Dunhill Medical Trust, the University of Southampton and the Medical Research Council.
15055520	We identified three rice cDNA clones showing amino acid similarity to the Arabidopsis CONSTANS-like proteins from a database search (S12569, S3574, and C60910), to examine if their transcript abundances were under circadian control. Unlike the other two proteins, the protein encoded by the S12569 cDNA contains only one CONSTANS-like zinc finger B box, and a CCT region. We found that the transcript levels of these rice CONSTANS-like (COL) genes were under circadian control. The oscillation phase of the S12569 gene transcript was more or less opposite to those of OsGI (rice GIGANTEA homolog) and Hd1 (rice COSTANS homolog), whereas the phases of the other two gene transcripts were similar to that of the Hd1 transcript. S12569 mRNA started to increase about 3 h after the onset of the dark period, with a peak about 3 h after its end. The S3574 and C60910 genes were expressed to similar extents during the vegetative and reproductive phases, like OsGI. Higher levels of S12569 transcripts, however, like those of Hd1, were detected in the earlier stages of panicle development. Unlike Hd1 transcripts, S12569, S3574, and C60910 transcripts were present at similar levels in the aerial parts of plants and in their roots during the vegetative phase. In conclusion, the rice COL genes showed distinctive expression patterns from the CO and COL genes, as well as Hd1, a rice CO homolog.
15055522	A cDNA encoding an Oryza sativa glutathione peroxidase, OsGPX1, was isolated and characterized. OsGPX1 encodes a protein of 168 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of approximately 18.5 kDa. The protein has 92% identity to a GPX of Zea mays, but only 65% identity to rice PHGPX. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsGPX1 contains two GPX active site domains and one WNF(S/T)KF domain. There is no plastid transit peptide sequence, suggesting that OSGPX1 may function in the cytoplasm. OsGPX1 is located slightly over 85.5 cM from the end of the short-arm of chromosome 4. The OsGPX1 transcripts were abundant only in the leaves of mature plants, and were barely detectable in the leaves of seedlings. However, the transcription of OsGPX1 gene was induced in the seedlings within an hour of exposure to salt stress and was also gradually increased by cold and drought stress. These results indicate that OsGPX1 is a stress-inducible gene of the rice glutathione peroxidase family that protects cells against both metabolic and environmental oxidative stresses.
15055532	Mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MK1) from Capsicum annuum was previously cloned and characterized. MK1 is highly conserved in plants and its amino acid sequence is 92% identical to wound-inducible protein kinase (WIPK) from tobacco. In C. annuum, MK1 is transcriptionally activated by wounding. In the present work, the MK1 gene was introduced into the rice genome by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Seven independent transgenic rice plants were isolated and characterized. All seven lines had a single-copy insertion of the MK1 transgene. MK1 mRNA and protein were detected in the transgenic rice, but not in wild type rice. In unwounded transgenic rice plants, the level of jasmonic acid was 3-fold higher than in the wild type, whereas in wounded leaves the level of jasmonic acid was the same in transgenic and wild type plants. Expression of the wound-inducible pathogenesis-related gene PR1a was also higher in transgenic than in wild type plants. Either overexpression of PR1a or increased PR1b and PR10 expression in transgenic rice plants may confer increased resistance to rice blast.
15055541	A cDNA encoding a class III chitinase (Oschib1) was isolated from a cDNA library constructed from rice leaves infected with the blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. The cDNA contains an open reading frame of 861 nucleotides encoding 286 amino acid residues with a pI of 5.06. The deduced amino acid sequence of Oschibl has a high level of similarity with class IIIb chitinases of Gladiolus gandavensis (46%) and Tulipa bakeri (49%). A high level of Oschibl mRNA was detected after inoculation with M. grisea or Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Expression of Oschib1 was induced more rapidly when an avirulent strain of M. grisea was inoculated (incompatible interaction) than when a virulent strain was used (compatible interaction). Expression of Oschibl was also induced by treatment of signaling molecules such as salicylic acid, ethylene, and methyl jasmonic acid, and by treatment with H2O2 or CuSO4. The induction patterns of Oschibl expression suggest that Oschib1 may be involved in defense response against pathogen infections and may be classified as a member of pathogenesis-related protein 8 in rice.
15055542	The resistance of rice to ozone (O3) is a quantitative trait controlled by nuclear genes. The identification of quantitative trait loci (QTL) and analysis of molecular markers of O3 resistance is important for increasing the resistance of rice to O3 stress. QTL associated with the O3 resistance of rice were mapped on chromosomes 1, 7 and 11 using 164 recombinant inbred (RI) lines from a cross between 'Milyang 23' and 'Gihobyeo'. The quantitative trait loci were tightly linked to the markers RG109, C507 and RG1094 and were detected in each of three replications. The association between these markers and O3 resistance in 26 rice cultivars and doubled haploid (DH) populations was analysed. The markers permit the screening of rice germplasm for O3 resistance and the introduction of resistance into elite lines in breeding programs.
15055545	Magnaporthe grisea, the causal fungus of rice blast, forms a specialized infection structure called an appressorium that is crucial for host plant penetration. A cDNA clone of M. grisea, showing strong sequence homology to FEM1 of Fusarium oxysporum and encoding an extracellular matrix protein, was isolated during an expressed sequence tag (EST) analysis of an appressorium cDNA library and named extracellular matrix protein 1 (EMP1). Sequence analysis of the corresponding genomic clone revealed that EMP1 contains an open reading frame of 685 nucleotides encoding 207 amino acids. The estimated molecular weight of the protein product was 20.5 kDa with a pI of 7.84. It contains an 18 amino acid N-terminal secretion signal sequence, as well as four potential N-glycosylation sites. At its C-terminus, the protein contains a 16 amino acid sequence with the characteristics of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor addition signal. Northern blot analysis showed that EMP1 transcripts accumulate during appressorium formation but not during vegetative growth. An EMP1 null mutant, emp1, generated by targeted gene disruption, exhibited reduced levels of appressorium formation and pathogenicity but no effect on mycelial growth rate or conidiation ability. These data suggest that EMP1 plays important roles in appressorium formation and the pathogenicity of M. grisea.
15055878	GMO crops were introduced for commercial production in 1996. Since then, their use has increased rapidly. GMOs have primarily benefited large farms and multinational companies in Industrialised Countries and now is more and more debating their utilisation in Developing World. The objective of the present review is an analysis of this subject from a comprehensive point of view; in addition to that, the changes related to the nutritional content of transgenic foods will be treated. Despite the progress that has been made, the world food situation is still marked by mass hunger and chronic malnutrition. In particular micronutrient malnutrition, that means vitamin and mineral deficiencies, represents an important public health problem in several areas of the world. The "golden rice" bioengineered to contain beta-carotene, as a source of vitamin A is the most famous example of GM food used for reduction (or even to solve) of a public health problem. The expected results of this approach have presently not been achieved. Further studies are necessary to increase the general knowledge about GMOs and their long-term effects on human health. Collaborative attitude of different research sectors (private and public) and involvement of different sectors of society will be an added value for comprehension of the real impact of the application of modern biotechnology to food and agriculture systems.
15056886	Vinegar was produced from barley-, sweet potato-, and rice-shochu post-distillation slurry using jar fermentor within 19 hrs. All the vinegars showed radical-scavenging activity, angiotensin I converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition and advanced glycation endproducts (AGE) inhibition in vitro. The radical-scavenging activity of the vinegar produced from sweet potato-shochu post-distillation slurry was higher than that of other two kinds of vinegar on the organic matter basis. The ACE inhibitory activities of all the vinegars were higher than that of each post-distillation slurry. The main components that showed ACE inhibitory activity would be peptides, and their content increased during acetic acid fermentation. Regarding AGE inhibition, only rice-shochu post-distillation slurry did not show such activity, but the other two post-distillation slurries and all the vinegars showed clear inhibitory activity. The activity appeared to depend on the concentration of amino groups except for sweet potato-shochu post-distillation slurry and the vinegar produced from it.
15056895	Carpropamid ((1RS,3SR)-2,2-dichloro-N-[(R)-1-(4-chlorophenyl)ethyl]-1-ethyl-3-methylcyclopropanecarboxamide) is a potent chemical against the rice blast fungus, Pyricularia oryzae. In 2001, isolates of the fungus with reduced sensitivity to this fungicide appeared in Saga Prefecture of Japan and were regarded as a potential threat to rice protection by carpropamid. The cause of the resistance has been identified genetically as a point mutation resulting in the Val75Met change in scytalone dehydratase, the primary target of the fungicide. We constructed an overexpression system of the variant enzyme and characterized the kinetics in the catalysis and the inhibition by carpropamid isomers. The variant enzyme retained a significant level of enzymatic activity. Inhibition of the variant enzyme by carpropamid was more than 200-fold reduced in comparison with that of the wild-type. Based on the results, here we propose possible mechanisms of the carpropamid-resistance of the variant enzyme in retaining the normal enzymatic activity.
15057934	In plants, successful sexual reproduction and the ensuing development of seeds and fruits depend on flowering at the right time. This involves coordinating flowering with the appropriate season and with the developmental history of the plant. Genetic and molecular analysis in the small cruciform weed, Arabidopsis, has revealed distinct but linked pathways that are responsible for detecting the major seasonal cues of day length and cold temperature, as well as other local environmental and internal signals. The balance of signals from these pathways is integrated by a common set of genes to determine when flowering occurs. Excitingly, it has been discovered that many of these same genes regulate flowering in other plants, such as rice. This review focuses on recent advances in how three of the signalling pathways (the day-length, vernalisation and autonomous pathways) function to control flowering.
15060575	Aluminum (Al) toxicity is considered to be a major problem for crop growth and production on acid soils. The ability of crops to overcome Al toxicity varies among crop species and cultivars. Rye (Secale cereale L.) is the most Al-tolerant species among the Triticeae. Our previous study showed that Al tolerance in a rye F6 recombinant inbred line (RIL) population was controlled by a single gene designated as the aluminum tolerance (Alt3) gene on chromosome 4RL. Based on the DNA sequence of a rice (Oryza sativa L.) BAC clone suspected to be syntenic to the Alt3 gene region, we developed two PCR-based codominant markers flanking the gene. These two markers, a sequence-tagged site (STS) marker and a cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) marker, each flanked the Alt3 gene at an approximate distance of 0.4 cM and can be used to facilitate high-resolution mapping of the gene. The markers might also be used for marker-assisted selection in rye or wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) breeding programs to obtain Al-tolerant lines and (or) cultivars.
15061077	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are plant steroids essential for normal growth and development. To gain insight into the molecular mechanism by which BRs regulate the growth and development of plants, it is necessary to identify and analyze more genes that are regulated by BRs. A novel brassinolide (BL)-enhanced gene designated OsBLE1, which was originally identified by using rice (Oryza sativa L.) cDNA microarray, was cloned and characterized. Its cDNA is 598 bp long, encoding a predicted polypeptide with 81 amino acid residues. Northern blots analysis revealed that OsBLE1 expression began to increase at 6 h and reached its maximum at 12 h after BL treatment. OsBLE1 expression was most responsive to BL in lamina joint in rice seedlings; besides, IAA and GA3 also enhanced its expression. OsBLE1 expressed mainly in active tissues such as vascular bundles and root primordial. Transgenic rice expressing antisense OsBLE1 exhibits various degrees of repressed growth. Results suggest that OsBLE1 might be involved in BL-regulated growth processes in rice seedlings.
15061587	Production of cephalosporin C employing a strain, Cephalosporium sp. NCIM 1039 under solid state fermentation was optimized. Different substrates like wheat bran, wheat grains, rice grains, barley and rice bran were studied to optimize the best substrate. Wheat bran showed the highest antibiotic yield. The physical and chemical parameters were optimized. The maximum productivity of cephalosporin C (750 U/g) was achieved by employing wheat bran and with optimized nutritional and process parameters such as potato starch as additive 1% w/w, urea as additive 1% w/w, incubation period of 7 days, incubation temperature at 30 degrees C, inoculum level 10% w/v, moisture content of solid substrate 80% and pH 7.0.
15062783	We used RT-PCR to sequence approximately 3 kb of the gene coding for the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (rpb1) from nine land plants. Our results show that plant rpb1 genes all have a similar GC-content and that their amino acid sequences evolve at a similar rate in most species we examined, except for the Arabidopsis thaliana and rice sequences which evolve faster. This gene also exists as a single copy in most species and contains enough phylogenetically informative sites to resolve the evolutionary relationships among seed plants. Protein maximum parsimony, as well as neighbor-joining and maximum likelihood analyses of DNA and protein sequences, all generated identical tree topologies with similar strong support values at each node. The angiosperms are a clade comprising Amborella as a sister group to all other angiosperms, followed by Nymphaea, Magnolia, Arabidopsis, and a monocot clade containing maize and rice. The gymnosperms also form a monophyletic clade with Welwitschia and pine grouped together and sister to a Cycas and Zamia clade. These findings concur with recent studies that refute the Anthophyte Hypothesis and place Amborella at the base of the angiosperm tree. These rpb1 sequences also give a more consistent picture of seed plant relationships than similar analyses performed on data sets made of 18S rDNA, atpB, and rbcL sequences from the same species. These sequences therefore show great promise to help further resolve the phylogenetic relationships of seed plants.
15063062	For the quantification of Gram-negative sulphate reducers in rice fields, 11 real-time PCR assays were established targeting 16S rRNA genes combined with SybrGreen detection. Three of these assays were specific for the "main" groups, i.e. the Desulfovibrionaceae, the Desulfobacteraceae and Desulfobulbus sp., whereas eight assays were developed for subgroups within the first two main groups. The detection limits of the assays were between 2 x 10(5) and 4 x 10(3) targets g(-1) (wet weight) or less than 0.02% of the eubacterial 16S rDNA targets in bulk soil, rhizosphere soil and rice root DNA extracts. Analysis of soil spiked with defined cell numbers of sulphate-reducing bacteria showed good correlation of measured target numbers to amended cells. In rice field bulk and rhizosphere soil, the Desulfobacteraceae were the predominant main group with target numbers of 6.4 x 10(7) (+/-1.0 x 10(7)) and 7.5 x 10(7) (+/-1.7 x 10(7)), respectively. Within this group the Desulforhabdus/Synthrophobacter assemblage and Desulfobacterium sp. were predominant. At the rice roots, the three main groups were abundant in similar numbers (approx. 1.0 x 10(8)) indicating that the relative abundance of the Desulfovibrionaceae and also of Desulfobulbus sp. was increased, relatively to the Desulfobacteraceae. Within the Desulfovibrionaceae the subgroup was predominant that was detected by assay DSV-II. This assay detects many from rice field soil isolated Desulfovibrio-strains and molecular retrieved sequences. Therefore these organisms that were already detected in the rice field environment by isolation and by molecular techniques are indeed best adapted to the conditions provided by the rice roots.
15064362	A complete sequence of a chromosome centromere is necessary for fully understanding centromere function. We reported the sequence structures of the first complete rice chromosome centromere through sequencing a large insert bacterial artificial chromosome clone-based contig, which covered the rice chromosome 4 centromere. Complete sequencing of the 124-kb rice chromosome 4 centromere revealed that it consisted of 18 tracts of 379 tandemly arrayed repeats known as CentO and a total of 19 centromeric retroelements (CRs) but no unique sequences were detected. Four tracts, composed of 65 CentO repeats, were located in the opposite orientation, and 18 CentO tracts were flanked by 19 retroelements. The CRs were classified into four types, and the type I retroelements appeared to be more specific to rice centromeres. The preferential insert of the CRs among CentO repeats indicated that the centromere-specific retroelements may contribute to centromere expansion during evolution. The presence of three intact retrotransposons in the centromere suggests that they may be responsible for functional centromere initiation through a transcription-mediated mechanism.
15064855	To increase the specific free amino acid content in the japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar Donganbyeo, mutant cell lines resistant to growth inhibition by 5-methyltryptophan (5MT) were selected from embryo-cultured callus irradiated with 50 Gy gamma-rays. Four 5MT-resistant homozygous M4 lines, MRI-40, MRI-116, MRII-8, and MRII-12, were obtained. The mean content of nine free essential amino acids were 70.1, 72.5, 31.7, and 35.4% greater than the original variety in these four mutant lines, respectively. For AFLP analysis, 8 EcoRI (+2) and 8 MseI (+3) primers used in 45 primer combinations generated a total of 3,684 bands with a mean of 82 bands, of which 361 (9.8%) were clearly polymorphic with the control cultivar, the four 5MT-resistant mutants, and five sensitive lines. The lines were grouped into three clusters through cluster analysis using unweighted pair grouping method of averages. The 36 polymorphic PCR products present only in the four homozygous 5MT-resistant lines were cloned and sequenced, and 10 of these sequenced products were converted into sequence tagged site (STS) markers. These STS primer sets were designated OSMR1-OSMR10. Six STS primer sets (OSMR1, OSMR2, OSMR3, OSMR4, OSMR5, and OSMR6) generated a single monomorphic PCR product identical in size to the original AFLP fragments. The broad applicability of these STS markers for the screening of 5MT resistance was evaluated with seven putative 5MT-resistant M2 plants (PM-1 to PM-7). Four STS markers (OSMR1, OSMR2, OSMR4, and OSMR5) out of six STS primer sets were revealed as polymorphic products between the control cultivar and the seven M2 plants. These markers can be utilized for the fine selection of 5MT resistance in rice, and this PCR-screening technique is less time-consuming, less labor-intensive, and more accurate and reliable than selection based solely on phenotypic evaluation involving soaking in 5MT solutions.
15066759	We report the development of a laser micromanipulation system and its application in the isolation of individual rice chromosomes directly from a metaphase cell. Microdissection and flow sorting are two major methods for the isolation of single chromosome. These methods are dependent on the techniques of chromosome spread and chromosome suspension, respectively. In the development of this system, we avoided using chromosome spread and cell suspension was used instead. The cell wall of metaphase rice cell was cut by optical scissors. The released single chromosome was captured by an optical trap and transported to an area without cell debris. The isolated single chromosome was then collected and specific library was constructed by linker adaptor PCR. The average insert size of the library was about 300 bp. Two hundred inserts of chromosome 4 library were sequenced, and 96.5% were aligned to the corresponding sequences of rice chromosome 4. These results suggest the possible application of this method for the preparation of other subcellular structures and for the cloning of single macromolecule through a laser microbeam trap.
15067404	The selection of an appropriate sampling strategy and a clustering method is important in the construction of core collections based on predicted genotypic values in order to retain the greatest degree of genetic diversity of the initial collection. In this study, methods of developing rice core collections were evaluated based on the predicted genotypic values for 992 rice varieties with 13 quantitative traits. The genotypic values of the traits were predicted by the adjusted unbiased prediction (AUP) method. Based on the predicted genotypic values, Mahalanobis distances were calculated and employed to measure the genetic similarities among the rice varieties. Six hierarchical clustering methods, including the single linkage, median linkage, centroid, unweighted pair-group average, weighted pair-group average and flexible-beta methods, were combined with random, preferred and deviation sampling to develop 18 core collections of rice germplasm. The results show that the deviation sampling strategy in combination with the unweighted pair-group average method of hierarchical clustering retains the greatest degree of genetic diversities of the initial collection. The core collections sampled using predicted genotypic values had more genetic diversity than those based on phenotypic values.
15067844	The authors describe the feeding habits of nursing students at the Francisco Maldonado University School of Nursing in Osuna. Usually, they eat three meals a day, breakfast, lunch and supper and the majority dine in their academic dormitory. The most common breakfast is coffee accompanied by toast. Cooking for oneself or for one's colleagues is a common custom. The students in our sample have feeding habits which are characterized by a high consumption of meat, an adequate consumption of complex carbohydrates as shown by eating an average of 3.48 servings of rice or pasta per week and an inadequate consumption of the following: an average of 3.48 servings per week of vegetables, 4.75 servings per week of fruit, 2.22 servings per week of fish, 3.97 servings per week of bread, and 5.5 servings per week of milk. The data obtained indicate that the feeding habits of this sample study group are not the adequate ones.
15068927	Dietary cadmium (Cd) exposure and renal tubular function were investigated in 1381 female farmers from five districts in Japan (Japanese Multi-centered Environmental Toxicant Study project; JMETS). Dietary Cd exposure of the five populations was assessed from the individual Cd concentrations of the rice consumed by the study participants and the quantities of rice consumed daily. The populations showed a sequential difference in dietary Cd exposure, ranging from a level as low as that of the general Japanese population to one close to the current provisional tolerable weekly intake (PTWI). The levels of urinary Cd excretion, an indicator of Cd accumulation in the kidneys, increased along the same sequential pattern as dietary Cd exposure. However, no differences were observed among the populations in levels of urinary alpha 1-microglobulin and beta 2-microglobulin excretion, which are indicators of renal tubular function. These results indicate that the current PTWI is sufficient to prevent Cd-induced renal dysfunction among the general population.
15069638	Despite recent progress in sequencing the complete genome of rice (Oryza sativa), the proteome of this species remains poorly understood. To extend our knowledge of the rice proteome, the subcellular compartments, which include plasma membranes (PM), vacuolar membranes (VM), Golgi membranes (GM), mitochondria (MT), and chloroplasts (CP), were purified from rice seedlings and cultured suspension cells. The proteins of each of these compartments were then systematically analyzed using two-dimensional (2D) electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, and Edman sequencing, followed by database searching. In all, 58 of the 464 spots detected by 2D electrophoresis in PM, 43 of the 141 spots in VM, 46 of the 361 spots in GM, 146 in the 672 spots in MT, and 89 of the 252 spots in CP could be identified by this procedure. The characterized proteins were found to be involved in various processes, such as respiration and the citric acid cycle in MT; photosynthesis and ATP synthesis in CP; and antifungal defense and signal systems in the membranes. Edman degradation revealed that 60-98% of N-terminal sequences were blocked, and the ratios of blocked to unblocked proteins in the proteomes of the various subcellular compartments differed. The data on the proteomes of subcellular compartments in rice will be valuable for resolving questions in functional genomics as well as for genome-wide exploration of plant function.
15069639	Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) comprise a large family of key defence enzymes against xenobiotic toxicity. Here we describe the comprehensive characterisation of this important multigene family in the model monocot species rice [ Oryza sativa(L.)]. Furthermore, we investigate the molecular evolution of the family based on the analysis of (1) the patterns of within-genome duplication, and (2) the phylogenetic relationships and evolutionary divergence among rice, Arabidopsis, maize and soybean GSTs. By in-silico screening of the EST and genome divisions of the Genbank/EMBL/DDBJ database we have isolated 59 putative genes and two pseudogenes, making this the largest plant GST family characterised to date. Of these, 38 (62%) are represented by genomic and EST sequences and 23 (38%) are known only from their genomic sequences. A preliminary survey of EST collections shows a large degree of variability in gene expression between different tissues and environmental conditions, with a small number of genes (13) accounting for 80% of all ESTs. Rice GSTs are organised in four main phylogenetic classes, with 91% of all rice genes belonging to the two plant-specific classes Tau (40 genes) and Phi (16 genes). Pairwise identity scores range between 17 and 98% for proteins of the same class, and 7 and 21% for interclass comparisons. Rapid evolution by gene duplication is suggested by the discovery of two large clusters of 7 and 23 closely related genes on chromosomes 1 and 10, respectively. A comparison of the complete GST families in two monocot and two dicot species suggests a monophyletic origin for all Theta and Zeta GSTs, and no more than three common ancestors for all Phi and Tau genes.
15069955	Red yeast rice is a source of fermented pigment with possible bioactive effect. Evidence shows that fermented red yeast rice lowers cholesterol levels moderately compared to other statin drugs, but with the added advantage of underscores its potential as a new alternative to lipid level control. It is concluded from the present evidence that other types of pigmented rice possess opportunities for development as new functional foods.
15070073	Phytate is the main storage form of phosphorus in many plant seeds, but phosphate bound in this form is not available to monogastric animals. Phytase, an enzyme that hydrolyzes phosphate from phytate, has the potential to enhance phosphorus availability in animal diets when engineered in rice seeds as a feed additive. Two genes, derived from a ruminal bacterium Selenomonas ruminantium (SrPf6) and Escherichia coli (appA), encoding highly active phytases were expressed in germinated transgenic rice seeds. Phytase expression was controlled by a germination inducible alpha-amylase gene (alphaAmy8) promoter, and extracellular phytase secretion directed by an betaAmy8 signal peptide sequence. The two phytases were expressed in germinated transgenic rice seeds transiently and in a temporally controlled and tissue-specific manner. No adverse effect on plant development or seed formation was observed. Up to 0.6 and 1.4 U of phytase activity per mg of total extracted cellular proteins were obtained in germinated transgenic rice seeds expressing appA and SrPf6 phytases, respectively, which represent 46-60 times of phytase activities compared to the non-transformant. The appA and SrPf6 phytases produced in germinated transgenic rice seeds had high activity over broad pH ranges of 3.0-5.5 and 2.0-6.0, respectively. Phytase levels and inheritance of transgenes in one highly expressing plant were stable over four generations. Germinated transgenic rice seeds, which produce a highly active recombinant phytase and are rich in hydrolytic enzymes, nutrients and minerals, could potentially be an ideal feed additive for improving the phytate-phosphorus digestibility in monogastric animals.
15071565
15071728	Tos17 is a copia-like, cryptic retrotransposon of rice, but can be activated by tissue culture. To study possible epigenetic mechanism controlling activity of Tos17, we subjected three rice lines (the parental line cv. Matsumae and two introgression lines, RZ2 and RZ35) that harbor different copies of the element to tissue culture. For each line, we investigated transcription and transposition of Tos17 in seed plants, calli and regenerated plants, cytosine-methylation status at CG and CNG positions within Tos17, effect of 5-azacytidine on methylation status and activity of Tos17, and cytosine-methylation states in genomic regions flanking original and some newly transposed copies of Tos17 in calli and regenerated plants. We found that only in introgression line RZ35 was Tos17 transcriptionally activated and temporarily mobilized by tissue culture, which was followed by repression before or upon plant regeneration. The activity and inactivity of Tos17 in calli and regenerated plants of RZ35 are accompanied by hypo- and hyper-CG methylation and hemi- and full CNG methylation, respectively, within the element, whereas immobilization of the element in the other two lines is concomitant with near-constant, full hypermethylation. Treatment with 5-azacytidine induced both CG and CNG partial hypomethylation of Tos17 in two lines (Matsumae and RZ35), which, however, was not accompanied by activation of Tos17 in any line. Heritable alteration in cytosine-methylation patterns occurred in three of seven genomic regions flanking Tos17 in calli and regenerated plants of RZ35, but in none of the five regions flanking dormant Tos17 in the other two lines.
15071831	The anopheline vectors and malaria transmission were investigated in the Middle West of Madagascar, in the village of Ambohimena (at the altitude of 940 meters) during two years (August 1996 to July 1998). This village is located outside the vector control area, where yearly DDT house spraying campaigns have been conducted between 1993 and 1998. Collection of mosquitoes was mainly based on all night man billing collections (650 man-nights), pyrethrum spray catches (224 bedrooms) and direct collections in outdoor resting places (140 toilets, 61 pigsties, 33 holes, 19 sheds, 79 sisal hedges, 70 cart shelters). Blood fed anophelines allowed analysis of the origin of blood with an ELISA method. Presence of circum-sporozoite protein was assessed with another ELISA method. The total number of collected anophelines was 14,280. Two malaria vectors were identified: Anopheles funestus Giles, 1900 and An. arabiensis Patton, 1902. An. funestus was the most abundant mosquito, especially during the hot rainy season. Two peaks of abundance were observed (in December and April). Endophagic rate (for mosquitoes aggressive for man) of 35.3%, an endophilic rate (for resting mosquitoes) of 78.0% and an anthropophilic rate (for indoor resting mosquitoes) of 64.0% were calculated. The average parity rate was relatively low (61.2%). The Plasmodium falciparum immunological sporozoite rate was 0.20%. An. funestus presented a higher vectorial capacity during the first round of rice cultivation (January) than during the second round (April-May). An. arabiensis was mostly abundant in December and January at the beginning of the rainy season. This species was exophagic (endophagic rate = 27.5%) and zoophilic (anthropophilic rate = 7.8%). The sporozoitic index was determined as zero (number of examined mosquitoes = 871). In this village, An. arabiensis presented only marginal importance for malaria transmission. Malaria transmission occurred from December to April. Annual entomological inoculation rate, only due to An. funestus, was 8.96 during the first year, and 3.17 during the second year. In this area where transmission is moderately stable, we suggest an extension of vector imagocidal control activities up to the western fringes of the Highlands.
15073211	Variation in transgene expression levels can result from uncontrolled differences in experimental protocols. Studies conducted over generations could, by their design, generate additional unwanted variation. To study sources of spurious variation, transgene expression levels were quantified over five homozygous generations in two independent transgenic rice lines created by particle bombardment. Both lines contained the same gus expression unit and had been shown to exhibit stable inheritance of transgene structure and expression. All plants were cultured and sampled using previously developed standardized protocols. Plants representative of each generation (T2, T3, T4, T5, T6) were grown either all together or across several different growth periods. GUS activity in plants from different generations was quantified either in the same assay or over multiple independent assays. Strategies in which plants were grown and phenotyped independently, significantly increased (up to 3-fold) extraneous variation in transgene expression level quantification, thus reducing the precision of molecular genetic studies and generating artefactual results in transgenic studies conducted over generations. Identification of sources of unwanted variation and quantification of their effect allowed the development of new strategies designed to control spurious variation. Growth and phenotyping of all plants from all generations together, using standard operating procedures (SOP), led to a reduction in extraneous variation associated with transgene expression level quantification. Adoption of such strategies is key to improving the reproducibility of transgenic studies conducted over generations.
15073216	Rad21/Rec8 is an important component and key regulator of cohesins. A RAD21-like gene from rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) has been cloned and termed OsRAD21-1. OsRAD21-1 is a single-copy gene in the rice genome and is expressed in the entire plant. OsRad21-1 consists of 1055 amino acid residues and is the largest of the Rad21/Rec8 family identified to date. Based on sequence similarity comparison with other members of this family and gene expression patterns, it is concluded that OsRad21 is a rice orthologue of yeast Rad21.
15074611	A study of temporal variation in methane efflux from the rice-fields indicated that weeds could modulate the CH4 emission by transporting atmospheric O2 more efficiently than rice plants to the rhizosphere, which suppressed CH4 formation in the oxic condition, inhibiting methanogenic activity. A more oxic environment in the sediment was reflected by the higher redox potential in the weed growing plots. Besides, cultivar differences in methane efflux might be attributed to various plant activities, more importantly root exudation, development of aerenchyma and the biomass. Peak emission of CH4 at the flowering stage in all the rice cultivars was associated with maximum extension of root mat, releasing exudates, which serve as carbon source for the methanogenic bacteria for CH4 formation.
15074688	The oxidation of elemental mercury (Hg0) to the divalent gaseous mercury dibromide (HgBr2) has been proposed to account for the removal of Hg0 during depletion events in the springtime Arctic. The mechanism of this process is explored in this paper by theoretical calculations of the relevant rate coefficients. Rice-Ramsberger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory, together with ab initio quantum calculations where required, are used to estimate the following: recombination rate coefficients of Hg with Br, I, and O; the thermal dissociation rate coefficient of HgBr; and the recombination rate coefficients of HgBr with Br, I, OH, and O2. A mechanism based on the initial recombination of Hg with Br, followed by the addition of a second radical (Br, I, or OH) in competition with thermal dissociation of HgBr, is able to account for the observed rate of Hg0 removal, both in Arctic depletion events and at lower latitudes.
15075001	Many epidemiological studies have provided support for the hypothesis that type II diabetes can increase the risk of colorectal cancer, but time trends, geographical distributions and host factors for the two diseases remain largely to be clarified. To address these issues, we investigated the epidemic pattern of colon cancer and type II diabetes among Japanese in Japan (J-Japanese), with consideration of the westernization of dietary habits. Over the last three decades, the increase in crude mortality rates of colon cancer from the Vital Statistics has closely paralleled the increment in prevalence rates (PRs) from hospital based surveys of diabetes. Age-standardized incidence rates (ASIRs) for colon cancer among Japanese in the United States (US-Japanese) were higher than those among J-Japanese and almost the same as those among US-Whites, while PRs for type II diabetes among US-Japanese were the highest in the three populations. Correlation analysis showed that PRs for type II diabetes had a positive association with ASIRs for colon cancer among the combination of Japanese and US-Japanese (r=0.79, p<0.01). Since 1950, intake of milk, meat, eggs and fat/oil has increased, while that of rice and potatoes has gradually decreased. Our findings indicate that the increment of ASIRs for colon cancer among J-Japanese might be closely associated with the increment of PRs for type II diabetes, reflecting the westernization of food intake.
15075394	To enhance our understanding of GA metabolism in rice (Oryza sativa), we intensively screened and identified 29 candidate genes encoding the following GA metabolic enzymes using all available rice DNA databases: ent-copalyl diphosphate synthase (CPS), ent-kaurene synthase (KS), ent-kaurene oxidase (KO), ent-kaurenoic acid oxidase (KAO), GA 20-oxidase (GA20ox), GA 3-oxidase (GA3ox), and GA 2-oxidase (GA2ox). In contrast to the Arabidopsis genome, multiple CPS-like, KS-like, and KO-like genes were identified in the rice genome, most of which are contiguously arranged. We also identified 18 GA-deficient rice mutants at six different loci from rice mutant collections. Based on the mutant and expression analyses, we demonstrated that the enzymes catalyzing the early steps in the GA biosynthetic pathway (i.e. CPS, KS, KO, and KAO) are mainly encoded by single genes, while those for later steps (i.e. GA20ox, GA3ox, and GA2ox) are encoded by gene families. The remaining CPS-like, KS-like, and KO-like genes were likely to be involved in the biosynthesis of diterpene phytoalexins rather than GAs because the expression of two CPS-like and three KS-like genes (OsCPS2, OsCPS4, OsKS4, OsKS7, and OsKS8) were increased by UV irradiation, and four of these genes (OsCPS2, OsCPS4, OsKS4, and OsKS7) were also induced by an elicitor treatment.
15075398	The unstable mutation bz-m039 arose in a maize (Zea mays) stock that originated from a plant infected with barley stripe mosaic virus. The instability of the mutation is caused by a 3.9-kb mobile element that has been named Jittery (Jit). Jit has terminal inverted repeats (TIRs) of 181 bp, causes a 9-bp direct duplication of the target site, and appears to excise autonomously. It is predicted to encode a single 709-amino acid protein, JITA, which is distantly related to the MURA transposase protein of the Mutator system but is more closely related to the MURA protein of Mutator-like elements (MULEs) from Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa). Like MULEs, Jit resembles Mutator in the length of the element's TIRs, the size of the target site duplication, and in the makeup of its transposase but differs from the autonomous element Mutator-Don Robertson in that it encodes a single protein. Jit also differs from Mutator elements in the high frequency with which it excises to produce germinal revertants and in its copy number in the maize genome: Jit-like TIRs are present at low copy number in all maize lines and teosinte accessions examined, and JITA sequences occur in only a few maize inbreds. However, Jit cannot be considered a bona fide transposon in its present host line because it does not leave footprints upon excision and does not reinsert in the genome. These unusual mobile element properties are discussed in light of the structure and gene organization of Jit and related elements.
15077625	Much research on rice allelopathy has been directed toward the selection of allelopathic rice strains and the identification of allelochemicals in rice. This paper briefly summarizes recent progress in the rice allelopathy and focuses on rediscovery of momilactone B as an allelochemical. A large number of rice varieties were found to inhibit the growth of several plant species when grown together under field and/or laboratory conditions. These findings suggest that rice probably produces and releases allelochemical(s) into the environment. The putative compound causing the inhibitory effect of rice was recently isolated from rice root exudates, and the chemical structure of the inhibitor was determined by spectral data as momilactone B. In addition, it has been found that momilactone B is released from rice roots into the neighboring environment, and the release level of momilactone B from rice may be sufficient to cause growth inhibition of neighboring plants. These findings suggest that momilactone B may play an important role in rice allelopathy.
15078334	Two genes in the rice genome were identified as those encoding the gamma subunits, gamma1 and gamma2, of heterotrimeric G proteins. Using antibodies against the recombinant proteins for the alpha, beta, gamma1, and gamma2 subunits of the G protein complexes, all of the subunits were proven to be localized in the plasma membrane in rice. Gel filtration of solubilized plasma membrane proteins showed that all of the alpha subunits were present in large protein complexes (about 400 kDa) containing the other subunits, beta, gamma1, and gamma2, and probably also some other proteins, whereas large amounts of the beta and gamma (gamma1 and gamma2) subunits were freed from the large complexes and took a 60-kDa form. A yeast two-hybrid assay and co-immunoprecipitation experiments showed that the beta subunit interacted tightly with the gamma1 and gamma2 subunits, and so the beta and gamma subunits appeared to form dimers in rice cells. Some dimers were associated with the alpha subunit, because few beta, gamma1, and gamma2 subunits were present in the 400-kDa complexes in a rice mutant, d1, which was lacking in the alpha subunit. When a constitutively active form of the alpha subunit was prepared by the exchange of one amino acid residue and introduced into d1, the mutagenized subunit was localized in the plasma membrane of the transformants and took a free, and not the 400-kDa, form.
15078336	Summary An efficient yeast-based system was developed for the isolation of plant cDNAs encoding transcription factors (TFs) and proteins with transcription activation functions (co-activators). The system consists of two vectors: (i) a reporter vector (pG221) harboring the iso-1-cytochrome c (CYC1) core promoter and the beta-galactosidase (lacZ) gene; and (ii) a cDNA library construction vector (pYF503), which yields a library of plant peptides fused to the GAL4-binding domain (GAL4-BD). Expression of a peptide harboring the characteristics of a transcriptional activator leads to expression of lacZ, allowing for selection of relevant colonies. TFs during rice embryo development were isolated through this system. Approximately 200 confirmed positive colonies were obtained from screening 10(6) yeast colonies, and sequence analysis of conserved domains identified 75 independent cDNAs, 20 of which encoded plant TFs or co-activators, including members of the APETALA2 (AP2)/ethylene-responsive element-binding protein (EREBP), MYB and growth-regulating factor (GRF) families. Peptides encoded by 13 of the isolated cDNAs were classified as potential TFs or co-activators because of the presence of conserved TF-like domains. Additionally, 2, 11, and 13 clones encoded kinases, chromosome-related proteins, and unknown proteins, respectively, while the remaining 16 cDNAs were associated with specific functions seemingly unrelated to TFs. Expression pattern analysis of selected TF-encoding genes via RT-PCR revealed that these genes were expressed during seed development, with differential transcription observed during various stages. This work provides informative hints for further study of the regulatory mechanism of rice seed development and illustrates an identification strategy that will be of practical value for the isolation of TFs and co-activators associated with specific plant developmental processes.
15078440	Oryza rufipogon Griff. is the most agriculturally important but seriously endangered wild rice species. To better estimate how genetic structure can be used to obtained a conservation perspective of the species, genetic variability at six polymorphic microsatellite DNA loci was examined. High levels of genetic variability were detected at six loci in 1245 individuals of 47 natural populations covering most of the species' range in China (overall RS = 3.0740, HO = 0.2290, HS = 0.6700). Partitioning of genetic variability (FST = 0.246) showed that most microsatellite variation was distributed within populations. Significant departures from Hardy-Weinberg expectations and very strong linkage disequilibrium indicate a high degree of inbreeding in the species and severe subdivision within populations. A mean Nm value of 0.7662 suggested a limited gene flow among the assayed populations. Our study suggests that conservation and restoration genetics should focus in particular on the maintenance of historically significant processes such as high levels of outbreeding and gene flow and large effective population size in the species.
15078816	Two evolutionarily distant plant species, rice (Oryza sativa L.), a short-day (SD) plant, and Arabidopsis thaliana, a long-day plant, share a conserved genetic network controlling photoperiodic flowering. The orthologous floral regulators-rice Heading date 1 (Hd1) and Arabidopsis CONSTANS (CO)-integrate circadian clock and external light signals into mRNA expression of the FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) group floral inducer. Here, we report that the rice Early heading date 1 (Ehd1) gene, which confers SD promotion of flowering in the absence of a functional allele of Hd1, encodes a B-type response regulator that might not have an ortholog in the Arabidopsis genome. Ehd1 mRNA was induced by 1-wk SD treatment, and Ehd1 may promote flowering by inducing FT-like gene expression only under SD conditions. Microarray analysis further revealed a few MADS box genes downstream of Ehd1. Our results indicate that a novel two-component signaling cascade is integrated into the conserved pathway in the photoperiodic control of flowering in rice.
15078861	We initially analyzed 11 families of low- and middle-copy-number long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons in rice to determine how their structures have diverged from their predicted ancestral forms. These elements, many highly fragmented, were identified on the basis of sequence homology and structural characteristics. The 11 families, totaling 1000 elements, have copy numbers ranging from 1 to 278. Less than one-quarter of these elements are intact, whereas the remaining are solo LTRs and variously truncated fragments. We also analyzed two highly repetitive families (Osr8 and Osr30) of LTR retrotransposons and observed the same results. Our data indicate that unequal homologous recombination and illegitimate recombination are primarily responsible for LTR-retrotransposon removal. Further analysis suggests that most of the detectable LTR retrotransposons in rice inserted less than 8 million years ago, and have now lost over two-thirds of their encoded sequences. Hence, we predict that the half-life of LTR-retrotransposon sequences in rice is less than 6 million years. Moreover, our data demonstrate that at least 22% (97 Mb) of the current rice genome is comprised of LTR-retrotransposon sequences, and that more than 190 Mb of LTR-retrotransposon sequences have been deleted from the rice genome in the last 8 million years.
15079051	Stress perception and signal transduction leading to tolerance involve a complex interplay of different gene products. We describe here the isolation and characterization of an intronless gene (OSISAP1) from rice encoding a zinc-finger protein that is induced after different types of stresses, namely cold, desiccation, salt, submergence, and heavy metals as well as injury. The gene is also induced by stress hormone abscisic acid. Overexpression of the gene in transgenic tobacco conferred tolerance to cold, dehydration, and salt stress at the seed-germination/seedling stage as reflected by the percentage of germination/green seedlings, the fresh weight of seedlings, and their developmental pattern. Thus, OSISAP1 seems to be an important determinant of stress response in plants.
15080335	The objectives of this research were to examine the palatability of stabilized rice bran (SRB) when included in a dry canine diet, and to determine the effects of SRB on food intake, digestion, fecal characteristics, blood lipid characteristics, and selected immune mediators. Experiment 1 tested the palatability of SRB. Diets contained poultry fat in Test 1 and soybean oil in Test 2, in conjunction with either 12% SRB or 12% defatted rice bran (DRB, as-fed basis), and were fed to 20 dogs. Diets contained approximately 32% protein and 22% fat (DM basis). Food intake data were collected and intake ratios calculated (grams of SRB diet consumed divided by total consumed of both diets). Intake ratios were 0.73 for Test 1 (P < 0.01) and 0.61 for Test 2 (P < 0.14) for SRB diets. Diets in Exp. 2 contained 12% SRB or DRB (as-fed basis), and poultry fat, beef tallow, or poultry fat:soybean oil (50:50) as the main fat sources, and were fed to 36 beagles. Diets contained approximately 32% protein and 22% fat (DM basis). The effects of SRB and DRB were determined on food intake, digestibility, fecal characteristics, and blood fatty acid, phospholipid, and eicosanoid concentrations. No differences were noted in food intake, digestibility, or fecal characteristics. Fat sources contributed much more to dietary fat than rice bran source; therefore, fat source profiles overwhelmed the rice bran source contribution. Dogs consuming a DRB diet had lower (P < 0.050) plasma phospholipid total monounsaturated fatty acids compared with those consuming a SRB diet (-1.17 vs. 0.95%, respectively), whereas plasma fatty acid concentrations tended (P < 0.119) to decrease more than with SRB diets. Total concentrations of red blood cell phospholipid SFA tended (P < 0.15) to be greater in dogs consuming a beef tallow-containing diet compared with those consuming a poultry fat or poultry fat:soybean oil diet. Total concentrations of red blood cell phospholipid PUFA and n-6 PUFA tended to be greater (P < 0.097 and P < 0.083, respectively) in dogs consuming a poultry fat-containing diet than in those consuming a beef tallow-containing diet. Statistical differences and tendencies were detected in individual plasma fatty acids and plasma and red blood cell phospholipids due to rice bran source, fat source, and their interaction. Eicosanoid concentrations did not change due to treatment. Stabilized rice bran is a highly palatable ingredient when included in a dry dog diet, and did not elicit an effect on inflammatory immune mediators in healthy dogs.
15080622	Oryza sativa cv. Heugjinjubyeo (Gramineae), anthocyanin-pigmented rice, having dark purple grains, is known broadly as enriched rice with an improved taste. Two bioactive compounds were isolated from the 0.5% HCl-ethyl alcohol soluble fraction of the aleurone layer of O. sativa cv. Heugjinjubyeo through an activity-monitored fractionation and isolation method. From spectral analysis, the cytotoxic components were the anthocyanidins cyanidin (1) and malvidin (2) The 50% growth inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)) of cyanidin and malvidin on U937, human monocytic leukemia cells, were 60 and 40 microg/mL, respectively. These compounds showed cytotoxicity through the arrest of the G(2)/M phase of cell cycle and induction of apoptosis.
15080628	The deduced amino acid variability for the 10 kDa prolamin was determined for 16 Oryza species, both cultivated (rice) and wild. Prolamin, a seed storage protein and site of nitrogen and sulfur accumulation, is sequestered in the subaleurone layer of the starchy endosperm for use during seedling germination. The 10 kDa prolamin amino acid distribution for the cultivated species (O. sativa and O. glaberrima) was determined and compared to those of wild and, hitherto unknown, noncultivated Oryza species. Four wild species (O. granulata, O. australiensis, O. brachyantha, and O. meyeriana) exhibited the greatest residue heterogeneity in both the signal and mature peptide regions. A breakdown of the essential amino acid variance among three Central/South American and one African endemic wild species is also presented and compared with those of rice.
15081049	The importance of angiosperms to sustaining humanity by providing a wide range of 'ecosystem services' warrants increased exploration of their genomic diversity. The nearly completed sequences for two species representing the major angiosperm subclasses, specifically the dicot Arabidopsis thaliana and the monocot Oryza sativa, provide a foundation for comparative analysis across the angiosperms. The angiosperms also exemplify some challenges to be faced as genomics makes new inroads into describing biotic diversity, in particular polyploidy (genome-wide chromatin duplication), and much larger genome sizes than have been studied to date.
15081051	The first successful and reproducible gene targeting by homologous recombination, without the concomitant occurrence of ectopic events, has been reported. This will be a powerful approach for the characterization of gene function in rice, an important crop and a model for other cereal species. Models have been proposed to explain gene replacement by homologous recombination, including a possible model for Agrobacterium-mediated gene targeting using a strong positive-negative selection.
15081482	The electrochemical disinfection of germinated brown rice (GBR) circulating water and cooling tower water containing Legionella bacteria was investigated. Results showed the total aerobic plate counts (APC) in the treated GBR circulating water decreased significantly and the turbidity was largely improved at a pulse voltage of 1.0 kV; Legionella bacteria were also disinfected effectively at 1.0 kV. The disinfection was attributed to the synergistic effects of the oxide anode, the electric field, and the radicals formed during the electrochemical treatment. This suggests that electrochemical treatment could be applicable to the disinfection of water from other sources.
15081715	Acid sulfate soils having a pH of less than 3.5 are widespread in Malaysia. Some of these soils are planted to cocoa, but the yield is reported to be low due to soil infertility related to Al toxicity. Cocoa growth is sensitive to the presence of Al in the soil. To a certain extent, Al toxicity in soils can be reduced by organic matter application and to a greater extent in iron-poor acid sulfate soil. A study was conducted to determine the efficacy of various types of organic materials easily available in the country to ameliorate acid sulfate soil infertility for growing cocoa seedlings. The treatments were control (nil), lime (3 t/ha), peat (10% w/w), peat plus green manure (10% w/w), peat plus rice straw (10% w/w), peat plus chicken dung (10% w/w) and peat plus POMS (Palm oil mill sludge) (10% w/w). The growth of cocoa seedlings was affected significantly by the presence of Al in the cocoa tissues. As the amount of Al in the leaves increased, the relative top dry weight of cocoa seedlings decreased. Likewise, the relative plant height was negatively correlated with Al in the leaves. Peat as well as peat in combination with green manure, rice straw, chicken dung or palm oil mill sludge was able to reduce Al toxicity in acid sulfate soil; the highest top dry weight of cocoa seedlings were obtained in the peat plus green manure treatment. The best cocoa seedlings root growth was found for the peat treatment alone. The relative top dry weight of cocoa seedlings was negatively correlated with Al(3+) as well as Al(3+)+Al(OH)(2+)+Al(OH)(2)(+) activity in the soil solution. The critical values for Al(3+) and the combination of Al(3+)+Al(OH)(2+)+Al(OH)(2)(+) activity in the soil solution were 10 microM and 15 microM, respectively.
15082564	Weedy rice has much stronger seed dormancy than cultivated rice. A wild-like weedy strain SS18-2 was selected to investigate the genetic architecture underlying seed dormancy, a critical adaptive trait in plants. A framework genetic map covering the rice genome was constructed on the basis of 156 BC(1) [EM93-1 (nondormant breeding line)//EM93-1/SS18-2] individuals. The mapping population was replicated using a split-tiller technique to control and better estimate the environmental variation. Dormancy was determined by germination of seeds after 1, 11, and 21 days of after-ripening (DAR). Six dormancy QTL, designated as qSD(S)-4, -6, -7-1, -7-2, -8, and -12, were identified. The locus qSD(S)-7-1 was tightly linked to the red pericarp color gene Rc. A QTL x DAR interaction was detected for qSD(S)-12, the locus with the largest main effect at 1, 11, and 21 DAR (R(2) = 0.14, 0.24, and 0.20, respectively). Two, three, and four orders of epistases were detected with four, six, and six QTL, respectively. The higher-order epistases strongly suggest the presence of genetically complex networks in the regulation of variation for seed dormancy in natural populations and make it critical to select for a favorable combination of alleles at multiple loci in positional cloning of a target dormancy gene.
15084106	A study was undertaken to develop a method for the chemical speciation of As in rice on the basis of current knowledge in this field for use in preparing a certified reference material (CRM). Samples of the Arborio rice variety were ground to a fine powder, which was extracted under sonication with a water-methanol mixture (1 + 1, v/v). The resulting solutions were injected into a high-performance liquid chromatograph combined on-line with a quadrupole inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometer. This hyphenated system allowed for the quantification of As species in one analytical step. Four forms of As were detected: inorganic As (III), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), and inorganic As (V) at concentrations of 88.2 +/- 7.1, 50.8 +/- 5.0, 15.2 +/- 1.7, and 51.2 +/- 3.5 ng/g, respectively. The concentration of total As was 211 +/- 7 ng/g. The limits of detection (3sigma criterion) and the quantitation (10sigma criterion) were, respectively, as follows (in ng/g): As (III), 0.095 and 0.320; As (V), 0.082 and 0.273; MMA, 0.110 and 0.367; and DMA, 0.145 and 0.480. Ten hours were needed for the extraction procedure, 6 h for the evaporation, and 30 min for quantification of the analytes. This investigation was performed in the frame of a European Commission Project on the feasibility of CRMs for As and Se species.
15084107	Health risk associated with dietary arsenic intake may be different for infants and adults. Seafood is the main contributor to arsenic intake for adults while terrestrial-based food is the primary source for infants. Processed infant food products such as rice-based cereals, mixed rice/formula cereals, milk-based infant formula, applesauce and puree of peaches, pears, carrots, sweet potatoes, green beans, and squash were evaluated for total and speciated arsenic content. Arsenic concentrations found in rice-based cereals (63-320 ng/g dry weight) were similar to those reported for raw rice. Results for the analysis of powdered infant formula by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) indicated a narrow and low arsenic concentration range (12 to 17 ng/g). Arsenic content in puree infant food products, including rice cereals, fruits, and vegetables, varies from <1 to 24 ng/g wet weight. Sample treatment with trifluoroacetic acid at 100 degrees C were an efficient and mild method for extraction of arsenic species present in different food matrixes as compared to alternative methods that included sonication and accelerated solvent extraction. Extraction recoveries from 94 to 128% were obtained when the summation of species was compared to total arsenic. The ion chromatography (IC)-ICP-MS method selected for arsenic speciation allowed for the quantitative determination of inorganic arsenic [As(III) + As(V)], dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), and methylarsonic acid (MMA). Inorganic arsenic and DMA are the main species found in rice-based and mixed rice/formula cereals, although traces of MMA were also detected. Inorganic arsenic was present in freeze-dried sweet potatoes, carrots, green beans, and peaches. MMA and DMA were not detected in these samples. Arsenic species in squash, pears, and applesauce were not detected above the method detection limit [5 ng/g dry weight for As(III), MMA, and DMA and 10 ng/g dry weight for As(V)].
1508429	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are a family of 209 chemicals with two linked phenyl rings and variable chlorination. They are clear oils at room temperature. They were produced from the 1930s until banned in the 1970s because of toxicity and evidence of widespread environmental contamination. They were used mostly as insulators in electrical equipment; their widespread occurrence in the environment is more a consequence of uncontrolled disposal than of deliberate dissemination. In Asia, there have been two outbreaks of poisoning due to cooking oil contaminated by thermally degraded PCBs. Studies in workers exposed chronically to "clean" PCBs, workers exposed acutely to thermally degraded PCBs in clean-up of fires, and adult patients in Asia who ingested contaminated rice oil consistently show slowed nerve conduction and sometimes show headache, lassitude, and other CNS symptoms. In children exposed to background levels in the US, those with the highest transplacental exposure show hypotonia and hyporeflexia at birth and slowed motor development through age two, a defect in visual memory processing at 7 mon, and defects in short term memory at 4 years. Despite the presence of PCBs in breast milk, no association between breast milk exposure and any measured outcome has been seen other than lower activity levels at 4 years among long term breast fed children at the highest PCB levels. In Asia, children who were in utero at or after the 1968 exposure in Japan or the 1979 exposure in Taiwan showed clinically evident developmental delay. In Taiwan, the children were shown to have a variety of ectodermal defects, but the association between these defects and developmental delay was weak.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
15084732	GATA transcription factors are a group of DNA binding proteins broadly distributed in eukaryotes. The GATA factors DNA binding domain is a class IV zinc finger motif in the form CX(2)CX(17-20)CX(2)C followed by a basic region. In plants, GATA DNA motifs have been implicated in light-dependent and nitrate-dependent control of transcription. Herein, we show that the Arabidopsis and the rice (Oryza sativa) genomes present 29 and 28 loci, respectively, that encode for putative GATA factors. A phylogenetic analysis of the 57 GATA factors encoding genes, as well as the study of their intron-exon structure, indicates the existence of seven subfamilies of GATA genes. Some of these subfamilies are represented in both species but others are exclusive for one of them. In addition to the GATA zinc finger motif, polypeptides of the different subfamilies are characterized by the presence of additional domains such as an acidic domain, a CCT (CONSTANS, CO-like, and TOC1) domain, or a transposase-like domain also found in FAR1 and FHY3. Subfamily VI comprises genes that encode putative bi-zinc finger polypeptides, also found in metazoan and fungi, and a tri-zinc finger protein which has not been previously reported in eukaryotes. The phylogeny of the GATA zinc finger motif, excluding flanking regions, evidenced the existence of four classes of GATA zinc fingers, three of them containing 18 residues in the zinc finger loop and one containing a 20-residue loop. Our results support multiple models of evolution of the GATA gene family in plants including gene duplication and exon shuffling.
15085449	The DNA sequence of 106 BAC/PAC clones in the minimum tiling path (MTP) of the long arm of rice chromosome 11, between map positions 57.3 and 116.2 cM, has been assembled to phase 2 or PLN level. This region has been sequenced to 10x redundancy by the Indian Initiative for Rice Genome Sequencing (IIRGS) and is now publicly available in GenBank. The region, excluding overlaps, has been predicted to contain 2,932 genes using different software. A gene-by-gene BLASTN search of the NCBI wheat EST database of over 420,000 cDNA sequences revealed that 1,143 of the predicted rice genes (38.9%) have significant homology to wheat ESTs (bit score >/= 100). Further BLASTN search of these 1,143 rice genes with the GrainGenes database of sequence contigs containing bin-mapped wheat ESTs allowed 113 of the genes to be placed in bins located on wheat chromosomes of different homoeologous groups. The largest number of genes, about one-third, mapped to the homoeologous group 4 chromosomes of wheat, suggesting a common evolutionary origin. The remaining genes were located on wheat chromosomes of different groups with significantly higher numbers for groups 3 and 5. Location of bin-mapped wheat contigs to chromosomes of all the seven homoeologous groups can be ascribed to movement of genes (transpositions) or chromosome segments (translocations) within rice or the hexaploid wheat genomes. Alternatively, it could be due to ancient duplications in the common ancestral genome of wheat and rice followed by selective elimination of genes in the wheat and rice genomes. While there exists definite conservation of gene sequences and the ancestral chromosomal identity between rice and wheat, there is no obvious conservation of the gene order at this level of resolution. Lack of extensive colinearity between rice and wheat genomes suggests that there have been many insertions, deletions, duplications and translocations that make the synteny comparisons much more complicated than earlier thought. However, enhanced resolution of comparative sequence analysis may reveal smaller conserved regions of colinearity, which will facilitate selection of markers for saturation mapping and sequencing of the gene-rich regions of the wheat genome.
15086592	Previous reports, based on surgery, showed duodenal ulcer (DU) to be more common in the rice-eating areas of southern India than in the northern wheat-eating areas. Does this difference persist? Can it be explained by risk factors other than diet? A total of 20 053 records from patients undergoing endoscopy for dyspepsia, and 590 endoscopy patients from two northern and two southern centers in India were studied prospectively. Records were scrutinized to determine the relative incidence of DU and non-ulcer dyspepsia in wheat- and rice-eating areas. Age, sex, length of history, smoking and medication were recorded. Three antral biopsies and one from each duodenal quadrant were taken. A rapid urease test was carried out on one of the antral biopsies; the others were examined for Helicobacter pylori, gastritis, duodenitis and duodenal gastric metaplasia. The difference in diet-associated prevalence persisted. No differences in smoking, Helicobacter pylori infection or duodenal gastric metaplasia were found between the two regions, but all three were more common in DU than in non-ulcer dyspeptic patients from both dietary areas. The dietary differences between the regions remain the only factor to account for the differences in DU prevalence. A strong interrelationship between duodenal gastric metaplasia and cigarette smoking is demonstrated.
15086801	A unigene set of 1411 contigs was constructed from 2629 redundant maize expressed sequence tags (ESTs) mapped on the maizeDB genetic map. Rice orthologous sequences were identified by blast alignment against the rice genomic sequence. A total of 1046 (74%) maize contigs were associated with their corresponding homologues in the rice genome and 656 (47%) defined as potential orthologous relationships. One hundred and seventeen (8%) maize EST contigs mapped to two distinct loci on the maize genetic map, reflecting the tetraploid nature of the maize genome. Among 492 mono-locus contigs, 344 (484 redundant ESTs) identify collinear blocks between maize chromosomes 2 and 4 and a single rice chromosome, defining six new collinear regions. Fine-scale analysis of collinearity between rice chromosomes 1 and 5 with maize chromosomes 3, 6 and 8 shows the presence of internal rearrangements within collinear regions. Mapping of maize contigs to two distinct loci on the rice sequence identifies five new duplication events in rice. Detailed analysis of a duplication between rice chromosomes 1 and 5 shows that 11% of the annotated genes from the chromosome 1 locus are found duplicated on the chromosome 5 paralogous counterpart, indicating a high degree of re-organisations. The implications of these findings for map-based cloning in collinear regions are discussed.
15086817	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5 A (eIF5A) is the only cellular protein known to contain the unusual amino acid hypusine. However, the precise cellular function of eIF5A is to date unknown. In the present study, we report on the characterization of two cDNA clones encoding eIF5A in rice (Oryza sativa). Sequence analysis revealed that the two cDNAs share 93% amino acid sequence identity. Phylogenetic analysis of the eIF5A genes revealed paraphyly of OseIF5A-1 and OseIF5A-2. Analysis at the mRNA level has shown that OseIF5A-1 and OseIF5A-2 are expressed in rice leaves and panicles and high relative amounts of both genes were detected in old leaves. In addition, both OseIF5A-1 and OseIF5A-2 were spatially regulated during rice leaf development. In suspension-cultured cells, the transcripts of OseIF5A genes were strongly reduced after sugar starvation. Abiotic stresses, salt and heavy metal, induce the accumulation of OseIF5A-1 and OseIF5A-2 mRNAs in rice cells. These results suggested that both OseIF5A genes might be regulated by plant development and environmental stresses.
15086826	An NADPH-dependent oxidoreductase (NADPH-DO) with an isoelectric point of 5.2 and a molecular mass of 35 kDa was isolated from suspension-cultured rice cells. NADPH-DO was inducible by auxin and gibberellin. NADPH-DO mRNA was expressed in roots and leaf sheaths of rice seedlings, but not in leaf blades. The levels of NADPH-DO mRNA and protein in suspension-cultured cells were increased by auxin; they were further raised by the application of zinc. In contrast, NADPH-DO mRNA and protein accumulation in intact roots was stimulated by auxin, but in this case the stimulation was inhibited by zinc. Auxin-induced callus growth and root formation in intact rice plants were further enhanced by zinc. These results indicate that high levels of NADPH-DO are necessary for auxin- and zinc-induced callus formation, and imply that zinc plays a role in the regulation of NADPH-DO induction by auxin.
15088086	The genetic loci and phenotypic effects of the transgene Xa21, a bacterial blight (BB) resistance gene cloned from rice, were investigated in transgenic rice produced through an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system. The flanking sequences of integrated T-DNAs were isolated from Xa21 transgenic rice lines using thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR. Based on the analysis of 24 T-DNA- Xa21 flanking sequences, T-DNA loci in rice could be classified into three types: the typical T-DNA integration with the definite left and right borders, the T-DNA integration linked with the adjacent vector backbone sequences and the T-DNA integration involved in a complicated recombination in the flanking sequences. The T-DNA integration in rice was similar to that in dicotyledonous genomes but was significantly different from the integration produced through direct DNA transformation approaches. All three types of integrated transgene Xa21 could be stably inherited and expressed the BB resistance through derived generations in their respective transgenic lines. The flanking sequences of the typical T-DNA integration consisted of actual rice genomic DNA and could be used as probes to locate the transgene on the rice genetic map. A total of 15 different rice T-DNA flanking sequences were identified. They displayed restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) between two rice varieties, ZYQ8 and JX17, and were mapped on rice chromosomes 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12, respectively, by using a double haploid population derived from a cross between ZYQ8 and JX17. The blast search and homology comparison of the rice T-DNA flanking sequences with the rice chromosome-anchored sequence database confirmed the RFLP mapping results. On the basis of genetic mapping of the T-DNA- Xa21 loci, the BB resistance effects of the transgene Xa21 at different chromosome locations were investigated using homozygous transgenic lines with only one copy of the transgene. Among the transgenic lines, no obvious position effects of the transgene Xa21 were observed. In addition, the BB resistance levels of the Xa21 transgenic plants with different transgene copy numbers and on different genetic backgrounds were also investigated. It was observed that genetic background (or genome) effects were more obvious than dosage effects and position effects on the BB resistance level of the transgenic plants.
15088147	Suppression subtractive hybridization was used to construct a subtractive cDNA library from plants of non-submerged and 7-day-submerged rice (Oryza sativa L., FR13A, a submergence-tolerant cultivar). One clone of the subtractive cDNA library, S23, was expressed abundantly during submergence. The full length of S23 was amplified using 5'- and 3'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends, and found to consist of 1,671 bp with an open reading frame of 1,077 bp (181-1257) encoding 358 amino acids. Its deduced amino acid sequence showed a high homology with monogalactosyldiacylglycerol synthase (UDPgalactose: 1,2-diacylglycerol 3-beta-D-galactosyl transferase; EC 2.4.1.46, MGDG synthase) from Arabidopsis thaliana; therefore, we named the gene OsMGD. Time-course studies showed that the expression of OsMGD in the rice cultivars FR13A and IR42 (submergence-susceptive cultivar) during submergence was gradually increased and that expression in FR13A was higher than in IR42. The expression of OsMGD in FR13A was influenced by benzyladenine and illumination. The accumulation of OsMGD mRNA in both FR13A and IR42 was also increased by ethephon, gibberellin, drought and salt treatment, but cold stress had no effect on the expression of the gene. These results suggest that the expression of OsMGD mRNA requires benzyladenine or illumination, and that the process is also mediated by ethephon and gibberellin. Salt and drought stress have an effect similar to that of submergence. Furthermore, the enhanced expression of OsMGD may relate to photosynthesis, and play an important role during submergence.
15091377	Five varieties of rice (Oryza sativa L.) of varying salinity resistance were grown in non-saline and in saline conditions, with and without a repeated exposure to ozone at a concentration of 83 nmol mol(-1) giving an AOT40 (cumulative exposure above 40 nmol mol(-1)) of 3600 nmol mol(-1) h. Salinity caused a substantial reduction in shoot and root dry weight in all varieties, but the effect on root growth was proportionately less than on shoot growth. Ozone reduced root dry weight but the treatment used did not significantly affect shoot dry weight. Both salinity and ozone reduced plant height. The potassium concentration in the leaves of all five varieties was reduced by salinity, and by ozone in both saline and non-saline treatments. Ozone reduced the sodium concentration in plants grown at 50 mM NaCl but had no effect upon the chloride concentration. Carbon dioxide assimilation, transpiration and stomatal conductance were all reduced by salinity and by ozone and there was close quantitative similarity between the effects of ozone and/or salinity upon assimilation, stomatal conductance and transpiration. There were some antagonistic effects but there were additive effects of salinity and of ozone on root dry weight, plant height, shoot potassium concentration, photosynthesis, transpiration and stomatal conductance. The possible basis of the additive effects of salinity and ozone on gas exchange and mineral uptake are discussed.
15091407	The concentrations of Cd, Co, Cu, Ni, Pb, Zn, Fe and Mn in different inorganic fertilizers (urea, calcium superphosphate, iron sulphate and copper sulphate) and in pesticides (two herbicides and one fungicide) are evaluated together with the contribution of these metals in soils from their use. The study was made in rice farming areas to the north of Albufera Natural Park (Valencia, Spain). The results obtained show that superphosphate is the fertilizer that contains the highest concentrations of Cd, Co, Cu and Zn as impurities. Copper sulphate and iron sulphate have the most significant concentrations of Pb, and are the only fertilizers in which Ni was detected. The three pesticides analysed show similar Cd contents and the highest levels of Fe, Mn, Zn, Pb and Ni are found in the herbicides. The most significant additions of heavy metals as impurities that soil receives from agricultural practices, are Mn, Zn, Co and Pb. Three contamination indexes have been applied to provide a basis for comparison of potential heavy metal toxicity. These results denote the potential toxicity of heavy metals in the studied soils.
15091465	A study using open-top chambers ventilated with ambient or charcoal filtered air in the vicinity of Lahore, Pakistan demonstrated reductions of 42% and 37% in the grain yield of two cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L.). This yield reduction was primarily due to the reduction in mean panicle number per plant, although significant effects of filtration on 1000 grain weight and the number of filled grains per panicle were also detected. The 6-h daily mean O(3) concentrations were only 10-20 nl litre(-1) during the monsoon season, but increased to 30-55 nl litre(-1) later in the growing season, while the mean NO(2) concentration during the experiment was 12 nl litre(-1). On the basis of experience in North America and Japan, the reductions in yield in the present study are substantially greater than might be predicted. The reasons for this discrepancy are discussed, together with the implications for effects on rice yield in other regions of south and south-east Asia.
15091536	To investigate the effects of low (0.05 micromol/mol) and relatively low (0.10 micromol/mol) concentrations of ozone on photoassimilate partitioning, rice plants grown in a water culture were fed with (13)C-labelled carbon dioxide at the reproductive stage in an assimilation chamber with constant concentration of (12)CO(2) and (13)CO(2). Rice plants were exposed to ozone 4 weeks before and 3 weeks after (13)CO(2) feeding. The dry weight of whole plants decreased with increasing ozone concentration, whereas net photosynthetic rate (apparent CO(2) uptake per unit leaf area) was unaffected, compared with the control, at the time of (13)CO(2) feeding. Dry matter distribution into leaf sheaths and culms was reduced more than that into leaf blades by ozone exposure. Although panicle dry weight per plant was reduced by ozone, the percentage of panicle dry weight to the whole plant tended to increase considerably. Exposure to ozone accelerated translocation of (13)C from source leaves to other plant parts. Partitioning of (13)C to panicles and roots was higher under ozone treatment than in the control. Respiratory losses of fixed (13)C from plants tended to decrease under treatment with ozone. The increase in photoassimilate partitioning in panicles can be considered to be an acclimation response of rice plants to complete reproductive stage under the restricted biomass production caused by ozone.
15091755	This paper discusses agriculture's share in the world-wide emissions of climate-affecting gases and in the global warming potential (GWP). Proposals also are presented to reduce these emissions adequately, using a cause-oriented approach. Largely due to the fertilization and cultivation of agriculture as well as the burning of biomass, agriculture has a very high share in the anthropogenic emissions of NH(3), N(2)O, CH(4) and CO at >95%, 81%, 70% and 52%, respectively, while its share in the NO(x) and CO(2) emissions is relatively small at 35% and 21%. The GWP of agriculture, based on annually 16.1 x 10(9) tons of CO(2), approaches 63% of the GWP of the energy sector or 80% of the GWP of its CO(2) emissions. At 34% and 32%, respectively, the main originators in the GWP of agriculture would seem to be CO(2) (changing land use) and CH(4) (animal husbandry/rice cropping/biomass burning) followed at 15% by NO(2) (technical and biological N fixation/(cultivation and recultivation/biomass burning) and 10% and 9% by CO and NO(x). The GWP of 3 German dairy cows corresponds with 13.2 tonnes CO(2) per year the GWP of two average German automobiles. However, the ozone-destroying effect of N(2)O and the climate-relevant effects of NH(3) are not yet included here. As with the therapy for other 'modern' boundary-crossing environmental damages, such as acidification or eutrophication, global climate change therapy likewise needs a therapy for the respective effects of reactive compounds of carbon, nitrogen, phosphorous, and sulfur also emitted by agriculture. Proposals for reducing these emissions within the agricultural sector include need-oriented plant, animal and human nutrition, more efficient external and internal nutrient recycling, the cessation of further clearing by burning, along with intensified afforestation mainly in the tropics, targeted measures to reduce nutrient losses/emissions, and measures for more efficient use of nutrients in plant, animal and human nutrition. These measures would at best result in reduced pollution of the global environment but not put it to an end. Decisive, therefore, is both the tolerable extent of mankind and its long-term sustainable way of life.
15092013	Plants of rice (Oryza sativa) and white bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) were exposed to 524 microg m(-3) SO2, 392 microg m(-3) O3 and a mixture of both gases, i.e. 524 microg m(-3) SO2 and 392 microg m(-3) O3 to determine the visible foliar injury and leaf diffusive resistance. Response of leaf diffusive resistance was measured on upper and lower surfaces of leaves, i.e. the two unifoliate leaves of bean and the first, second and third primary leaves of rice. The difference in the response may be due to sensitive guard cells causing stomatal closure in the presence of O3, whilst a low concentration of SO2 caused the stomata to open. Thus, SO2 alone is known to decrease, and O3 tends to increase leaf diffusive resistance. However, exposure to both gases increases or decreases the resistance, depending on the species response.
15092057	Paddy soil and sediment samples collected from the Vellar River watershed, Tamil Nadu state, South India from December, 1987 to January, 1989 were analysed to understand the comprehensive behaviour of organochlorine insecticides (HCH and DDT) in the tropical environment. HCH (BHC) showed higher levels in soil during wet season, reflecting the application of technical HCH largely during the flowering season of rice. On the other hand, DDT residues were low and did not show a significant seasonal trend in soil or sediment, indicating small quantities of DDT utilized at present for agricultural purposes in India. When compared to soil, the residue levels in sediments are low and the seasonal variation is less pronounced. This indicates that in tropical watersheds, the relative flux of residues into the aquatic environment is smaller than the amount volatilized to the atmosphere.
15092071	To clarify the response of growth and root functions to low concentrations of ozone (O(3)), rice plants (Oryza sativa L.) were exposed to O(3) at 0.0 (control), 0.05 and 0.10 ppm for 8 weeks from vegetative to early heading stages. Exposure to 0.05 ppm O(3) tended to slightly stimulate the dry weight of whole plants up to 5 weeks and then slightly decrease the dry weight of whole plants. However, these effects were statistically significant only at 6 weeks. Exposure to 0.10 ppm O(3) reduced the dry weight of whole plants by 50% at 5 and 6 weeks, and thereafter the reduction of the dry weight of whole plants was gradually alleviated. Those changes in dry weight can be accounted for by a decrease or increase in the relative growth rate (RGR). The changes in the RGR caused by 0.05 and 0.10 ppm O(3) could be mainly attributed to the effect of O(3) on the net assimilation rate. Root/shoot ratio was lowered by both 0.05 and 0.10 ppm O(3) throughout the exposure period. The root/shoot ratio which had severely decreased at 0.10 ppm O(3) in the first half period of exposure (1-4 weeks) became close to the control in the latter part of exposure (5-8 weeks). Time-course changes in NH(4)-N root uptake rate were similar to those in the root/shoot ratio especially for 0.10 ppm O(3). On the other hand, root respiration increased from the middle to later periods. Since it is to be supposed that plants grown under stressed conditions change the ratio of plant organ weight to achieve balance between the proportion of shoots to roots in the plant and their activity for maintaining plant growth, these changes in root/shoot ratio and nitrogen uptake rate under long-term exposure can be considered to be an adaptive response to maintain rice growth under O(3) stress.
15092110	The effect of paper industry effluent on the growth and content of certain macromolecules of seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Kesari-82K) has been examined. The effects were investigated in relation to both concentration of effluent and time of exposure to the effluent. Percentage of germination, water imbibing capacity, growth, pigment, carbohydrate and protein content showed a decreasing trend with increase in effluent concentration and time. Protein content was the most sensitive macromolecule affected by effluent. Measurement of protein and protein enzymes might therefore provide a useful criterion for the evaluation of the phytotoxicity of effluent released from the pulp and paper industries.
15092147	DDT added to soil at a concentration of 50 microg g(-1) had no inhibitory effects on germination and plant growth of barley, mung and rice, but considerably inhibited the oilseed species tested in the laboratory. The uptake of one or other ions was affected in varying degrees, with plants grown in DDT-treated soils. Detailed field studies of a peanut crop further confirmed the inhibition of ion uptake with DDT, especially Ca(2+) and K(+). Reduced uptake of (86)Rb by germinated peanut seeds in the presence of DDT further supported the observations made with K(+). Cell number and length in plants were reduced in plants grown in DDT-treated soil and the role of calcium is discussed. It appears that growth inhibition in oil seed plants may arise from the low levels of Ca(2+) and K(+) in plants grown in DDT-treated soils.
15092167	Oryza sativa L. cv. GR3 was grown near to a fertilizer plant and the growth of its seed progeny was evaluated at sites near to, and distant from, the fertilizer plant. The grain yield was reduced in plants grown at the polluted site, with reduced panicle length and increased sterility index. This decrease in grain yield was higher in the progeny plants than in the normal polluted plants. The polluted progeny grown at a control site showed a normal yield, but an increased sterility index. Accumulation of total sulphur and fluoride was higher in the leaves of polluted rice plants. It was evident that tolerance to air pollution was reduced in the progeny plants due to an additional dosage of sulphur and fluoride pollutants and to unfavourable climatic factors. Further, pollution effects were not carried over in progeny plants when grown in an unpolluted environment.
15092202	Water samples collected from Vellar river and Pichavaran mangroves at Porto Novo (11 degrees 29' N, 79 degrees 46' E), Tamil Nadu State, South India, from December 1987 to January 1989 were analyzed to determine the seasonal variation of the levels of organochlorine insecticides such as HCH (BHC) and DDT. Both these insecticides showed higher levels from October to February, although this trend was more pronounced in HCH than DDT, reflecting the application of technical HCH largely and probably small quantities of DDT during the flowering season of rice. The alpha-HCH was detected as a dominant isomer for all seasons monitored followed by beta-HCH. Among DDT compounds, p,p'-DDT was the highest in river water except in the dry season when p,p'-DDD showed a higher percentage. On the other hand, in mangroves p,p'-DDE was highest during the wet season and p,p'-DDD during the dry season. Air-water partitioning data of HCH isomers and DDT compounds in Vellar river revealed that these chemicals tend to be in the water phase. These observations may aid in understanding the role of a tropical paddy area on the behavior and fate of man-made chemicals in view of worldwide contamination.
15092346	Air samples collected from Porto Novo (11 degrees 29' N, 79 degrees 46' E), Tamil Nadu State, South India from December, 1987 to January, 1989 were analysed to determine the seasonal variations of the levels of organochlorine insecticides such as HCH (BHC) and DDT. Both these insecticides showed higher levels from August to January, although this trend was more marked in HCH than DDT, reflecting the application of HCH largely, and probably small quantities of DDT during the flowering season of rice. The alpha-HCH was detected as a dominant isomer for all seasons monitored followed by gamma-HCH. Among DDT compounds, p,p'-DDT was the highest except in dry season (January to April) when p,p-DDE showed higher percentage. The levels and percentage composition of these insecticides recorded in the present study may aid in interpreting the role of a 'point source' area since India is one of the countries still using the persistent organochlorine pesticides in large quantities.
15092357	There is a fast growing and an extremely serious international scientific, public and political concern regarding man's influence on the global climate. The decrease in stratospheric ozone (O3) and the consequent possible increase in ultraviolet-B (UV-B) is a critical issue. In addition, tropospheric concentrations of 'greenhouse gases' such as carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O) and methane (CH4) are increasing. These phenomena, coupled with man's use of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), chlorocarbons (CCs), and organo-bromines (OBs) are considered to result in the modification of the earth's O3 column and altered interactions between the stratosphere and the troposphere. A result of such interactions could be the global warming. As opposed to these processes, tropospheric O3 concentrations appear to be increasing in some parts of the world (e.g. North America). Such tropospheric increases in O3 and particulate matter may offset any predicted increases in UV-B at those locations. Presently most general circulation models (GCMs) used to predict climate change are one- or two-dimensional models. Application of satisfactory three-dimensional models is limited by the available computer power. Recent studies on radiative cloud forcing show that clouds may have an excess cooling effect to compensate for a doubling of global CO2 concentrations. There is a great deal of geographic patchiness or variability in climate. Use of global level average values fails to account for this variability. For example, in North America: 1. there may be a decrease in the stratospheric O3 column (1-3%); however, there appears to be an increase in tropospheric O3 concentrations (1-2%/year) to compensate up to 20-30% loss in the total O3 column; 2. there appears to be an increase in tropospheric CO2, N2O and CH4 at the rate of roughly 0.8%, 0.3% and 1-2%, respectively, per year; 3. there is a decrease in erythemal UV-B; and 4. there is a cooling of tropospheric air temperature due to radiative cloud forcing. The effects of UV-B, CO2 and O3 on plants have been studied under growth chamber, greenhouse and field conditions. Few studies, if any, have examined the joint effects of more than one variable on plant response. There are methodological problems associated with many of these experiments. Thus, while results obtained from these studies can assist in our understanding, they must be viewed with caution in the context of the real world and predictions into the future. Biomass responses of plants to enhanced UV-B can be negative (adverse effect); positive (stimulatory effect) or no effect (tolerant). Sensitivity rankings have been developed for both crop and tree species. However, such rankings for UV-B do not consider dose-response curves. There are inconsistencies between the results obtained under controlled conditions versus field observations. Some of these inconsistencies appear due to the differences in responses between cultivars and varieties of a given plant species; and differences in the experimental methodology and protocol used. Nevertheless, based on the available literature, listings of sensitive crop and native plant species to UV-B are provided. Historically, plant biologists have studied the effects of CO2 on plants for many decades. Experiments have been performed under growth chamber, greenhouse and field conditions. Evidence is presented for various plant species in the form of relative yield increases due to CO2 enrichment. Sensitivity rankings (biomass response) are agein provided for crops and native plant species. However, most publications on the numerical analysis of cause-effect relationships do not consider sensitivity analysis of the mode used. Ozone is considered to be the most phytotoxic regional scale air pollutant. In the pre-occupation of loss in the O3 column, any increases in tropospheric O3 concentrations may be undermined relative to vegetation effects. As with the other stress factors, the effects of O3 have been studied both under controlled and field conditions. Thboth under controlled and field conditions. The numerical explanation of cause-effect relationships of O3 is a much debated subject at the present time. Much of the controversy is directed toward the definition of the highly stochastic, O3 exposure dynamics in time and space. Nevertheless, sensitivity rankings (biomass response) are provided for crops and native vegetation. The joint effects of UV-B, CO2 and O3 are poorly understood. Based on the literature of plant response to individual stress factors and chemical and physical climatology of North America, we conclude that nine different crops may be sensitive to the joint effects: three grain and six vegetable crops (sorghum, oat, rice, pea, bean, potato, lettuce, cucumber and tomato). In North America, we consider Ponderosa and loblolly pines as vulnerable among tree species. This conclusion should be moderated by the fact that there are few, if any, data on hardwood species. In conclusion there is much concern for global climate change and its possible effects on vegetation. While this is necessary, such a concern and any predictions must be tempered by the lack of sufficient knowledge. Experiments must be designed on an integrated and realistic basis to answer the question more definitively. This would require very close co-operation and communication among scientists from multiple disciplines. Decision makers must realize this need.
15092362	Thirty-day-old seedlings of rice plants (IR-20 variety) from the nursery were transplanted into experimental plots and after 52 days were sprayed with phosphamidon (Dimecron 85% EC) at two dose-rates (0.38 kg a.i. ha(-1) and 0.76 kg a.i. ha(-1)). Residues of phosphamidon in the plant, soil and water were analysed by GLC, at various time intervals, and were found to decrease steadily up to 15 days. A second application of the pesticide was made on day 113 and grains harvested on day 138. The residue level in the plants was 0.12 microg g(-1) and in the grains 0.04 microg g(-1) with the high dose. This is slightly below the EPA prescribed tolerance level of 0.05 microg g(-1). The residues in both soil and water were very low, 24 h after spraying.
15092369	The effects of DDT on the germination and growth of plants were studied using many crop species. Of the species tested, oil-rich seeds of plants, such as peanut (Arachis hypogaea) and mustard (Brassica juncea), were more prone to DDT induced inhibition of germination and subsequent plant growth than cereals, pulses and fibre crops, like rice (Oryza sativa), barley (Hordeum vulgare), mung bean Vigna radiata), pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan) and cotton (Gossypium hirsutum). Studies with (14)C labelled DDT showed that insecticide uptake by seeds was directly proportional to seed size. However, there was no direct relationship between DDT uptake by the seeds and its subsequent translocation to the growing regions or the degree of growth inhibition. Data suggest that oil content of the seeds per se has a bearing on the susceptibility or tolerance of a plant to DDT. It is suggested that lipids of the plant cell solubilize and disperse DDT in the cytoplasm, which, in turn, affects normal metabolism within the cell.
15092427	The effects of three cultivars, two water regimes and two rates of applying nitrogen fertilisers were tested when studying the performance of rice (Oryza sativa L.) near to, and distant from, a fertiliser plant emitting atmospherically dispersed pollutants. The atmosphere near the fertiliser plant had average daily peak concentrations of 144 and 210 microg m(-3) of SO(2) and NO(2), respectively. Growth was less near to, than at a distance from, the fertiliser plant. On average it was decreased by water stress while the effects of different amounts of nitrogen fertiliser were variable. Whilst there were a number of interactions involving nitrogen and water treatments, the most consistent were associated with the responses of the three cultivars at the two locations. The three cultivars performed similarly at the unpolluted control site, but there were major differences at the polluted site. These were most clearly exemplified by changes in the proportion of dry matter allocated to yields of grain and straw. At the unpolluted site, grain accounted for about 30% of the combined yields of grain and straw. At the polluted site, grain accounted for 1, 23 and 31% of the combined grain and straw yields of cultivars CO 43 (the most sensitive), TKM 9 and GR 3 (the most tolerant). Grain yields were closely related to numbers of filled grains per plant. At the polluted site, 98% of grains failed to develop in CO 43, whereas in GR 3, the number of panicles, and therefore the potential number of grains, was significantly enhanced.
15092558	Crop yield losses were estimated for ambient O3 concentrations and for a series of potential O3 air quality standards for California, including the current statewide 1-h oxidant (O3) standard of 0.10 ppm (196 microg m(-3)), 12-h growing season averages, and other models. A model for statewide losses was developed using hourly O3 data for all sites in the State, county crop productivity data, and available O3 concentration-yield loss equations to determine potential yield losses for each crop in each county in California for 1984. Losses were based on comparison to an estimated background filtered air concentration of 0.025 or 0.027 ppm, for 12 or 7 h, respectively. Potential losses due to ambient air in 1984 were estimated at 19% to 25% for dry beans, cotton, grapes, lemons, onions, and oranges. Losses of 5% to 9% were estimated for alfalfa and sweet corn. Losses of 4% or less were estimated for barley, field corn, lettuce, grain sorghum, rice, corn silage, spinach, strawberries, sugar beets, fresh tomatoes, processing tomatoes, and wheat. Implementation of either a modified rollback to meet the current 1 h California O3 standard (0.10 ppm) or a three-month, 12-h growing season average of 0.045 ppm was necessary to produce large reductions in potential crop losses.
15092639	The effects of gamma-irradiated sludge on the growth and yield of rice (Oryza sativa L. var. GR-3) in pot cultures have been studied. Compared to plants grown only in soil, shoot length, root length, fresh weight, dry weight, total proteins, total soluble sugars, starch and chlorophyll content of plants grown in soil supplemented with unirradiated or gamma-irradiated sludge were found to be significantly increased. Irradiation of sludge significantly stimulated the linear growth of shoot and root systems as well as fresh and dry weights of plants, compared to those grown in soil containing unirradiated sludge. There was also an improvement in the grain yield (weight of seed) when plants were grown in soil supplemented with irradiated sludge. The results obtained suggest that the gamma-irradiated sewage sludge can be beneficially recycled for agricultural uses.
15093454	Analysis of global fallout 99Tc in environmental samples should provide useful information for predicting the nuclide behaviour under natural conditions which is important from the viewpoint of radioecology. Concentrations of 99Tc in rice paddy soils collected in Japan have been studied. After chemical separation, 99Tc in the final solution was measured by ICP-MS. The activity ratio of 99Tc/137Cs was used to understand the 99Tc behaviour in the environment because the fission yields of 99Tc and 137Cs from 235U or 239Pu are almost the same. The theoretical activity ratio from fission which is calculated now is about 3.0 x 10(-4). Our results showed that the range of activity ratios of 99Tc/137Cs in the soil samples was (2.0-5.2) x 10(-3); these ratios were one order of magnitude higher than the theoretical one. 99Tc has been accumulating in rice paddy soil like 137Cs has, although their mechanisms might differ. One of the reasons for the high ratio in the surface soil might be the ratios in the atmospheric samples, which have increased from the order of 10(-3) to 10(-2) (García-León et al., 1993).
15094187	Homeobox genes that encode transcription factors play important roles in development and differentiation of both plant and animal systems. From a cDNA library of 3-day after-pollination (DAP) rice embryos we cloned a HAZ1 cDNA that encodes a protein with a PHD-finger domain and a homeodomain. A database search showed that HAZ1 was most similar in its entire amino acid sequence to Zmhox1a (52% identity) and Zmhox1b (50%), PHD-finger family homeodomain proteins of maize. Differing from Zmhox1, overexpression of HAZ1 brought no morphological change either in tobacco or in rice. In situ hybridization showed that HAZ1 was expressed at a higher level in the outer layers of a developing embryo than in the inner parts of the embryo at 3 DAP. At 4 and 5 DAPs, the expression of HAZ1 was concentrated at the ventral part of an embryo. These results indicate that HAZ1 marks outer layer cells of a globular embryo before any morphological differentiation is discerned in it. Radial axis differentiation marked by HAZ1 is then collapsed dynamically along with embryo morphogenesis, and HAZ1 later marks the ventral surface of the embryo.
15096063	How vibrational energy flows in molecules has recently become much better understood through the joint efforts of theory, experiment, and computation. The phenomenology of energy flow is much richer than earlier thought. We now know energy flow depends on the local structure of molecular vibrational state space. The details of the theoretically predicted transition from localized vibrations to free flow, where the molecule can act as its own heat bath, are now well-established experimentally. Energy flow is a quantum diffusive process leading to nonexponential decays, also seen in experiment. The slowness of energy flow in activated molecules causes substantial deviation from statistical Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theories for low barrier rate processes, such as isomerization. Quantitative calculations of rates in those cases are now possible.
15096605	Previous research has shown that long-term intensive cropping of irrigated lowland rice has led to significant grain-yield declines in field trials. The yield decline was attributed to decreased availability of soil nitrogen, which is held mostly in the soil organic matter. By advanced solid-state NMR spectroscopy, we have detected significant amounts of amide nitrogen directly bonded to aromatic rings in a humic acid fraction extracted from a continually submerged, triple-cropped rice soil. Because nitrogen bonded to aromatics is not readily plant-available, this observation can explain the yield decline. Quantitative (13)C NMR combined with advanced spectral editing showed that this humic acid is rich in lignin derivatives (>45% of all carbon), whereas the corresponding humic acid fraction extracted from an aerobic, single-cropped rice soil contains less lignin and less nitrogen bonded to aromatics.
15098484	Rats were fed by transgenic rice which expressed insecticidal protein CpTI (cowpea trypsin inhibitor) to study if the transgenic rice possessed potential teratogenicity effects. Weanling Wistar rats were randomly divided into four groups: transgenic rice group, non transgenic rice group, negative control group and positive control group. The diet of transgenic rice group contained 78.3% transgenic rice. The diet of non transgenic rice group contained 74.7% non transgenic rice which was the parent line of the transgenic one. The diet formula of the two control groups was AIN93G. The marco- and micronutrient content were equal in three diets. When the sexual maturation period of rats arrived, conventional teratogenicity test was performed. The body weight gain of pregnant rats and body weight, body length and tail length of fetal rats in transgenic rice group were significant higher than those in positive control group (P < 0.01). The malformation rate of fetus in transgenic rice group was significant lower than that in positive control group (P < 0.01). There were no significant differences of all indexes among transgenic rice group, non transgenic rice group and negative control group (P > 0.05). Judging from these results, the transgenic rice modified with CpTI was considered to have no maternal toxicity, embryotoxicity and teratogenicity effects.
15098485	To assess the immunotoxicologic aspect of transgenetic plant. BALB/C mice were fed with food composed by transgenic rice (into which cowpea trypsin inhibitor gene was introduced) or nontransgenetic rice (which has the same gene composition as the transgenic rice except for the cowpea trypsin inhibitor gene) for 30 days. All food is made according to the composition of AIN-93G. In the end, all kinds of immunotoxicologic indexes of mice of every group were compared such as body weight, guts index, blood routine test, lymphocyte sort, serum antibody titter, plaque forming cell, delayed hypersensitivity response, macrophage function test. All immunotoxicologic indexes of mice fed either by transgenic rice or nontransgenetic rice have no differences to those of mice fed by normal food. Transgenic rice is substantially equivilent to nontransgenetic rice in immunotoxicologic aspect.
15099988	Measurement of in vitro activity of quicklime against Burkholderia pseudomallei revealed that quicklime at concentrations of 10% or more was bactericidal for up to 35 d. The effect of quicklime as an inhibitor of B. pseudomallei in soil from a rice field was studied in a laboratory setting. The soil, collected from a rice field in north-eastern Thailand, was mixed with B. pseudomallei. In experiment 1, quicklime was mixed with the soil in different amounts. In experiment 2, quicklime was spread over the soil surface. In experiment 3, quicklime solution was poured onto the soil. It was found that the pH of the soil in experiment 1 was much higher than that in experiments 2 and 3. Only quicklime mixed with soil at a concentration of 40% or more (weight/weight) was effective in inhibiting the growth of B. pseudomallei for up to six weeks.
15101094	AtCRE1 is known to be a cytokinin receptor in Arabidopsis. The AtCRE1 protein contains CHASE domain at the N-terminal part, followed by a transmitter (histidine kinase) domain and two receiver domains. The N-terminal CHASE domain of AtCRE1 contains putative recognition sites for cytokinin. Five CHASE domains containing proteins were found in rice, OsCRL1a, OsCRL1b, OsCRL2, OsCRL3, and OsCRL4. OsCRL1a, OsCRL1b, OsCRL2 and OsCRL3 contain the four domains existing in CRE1, whereas OsCRL4 only contains the CHASE domain and a putative Ser/Thr protein kinase domain. The authors cloned the encoding gene OsCRL4 and found that it represents a new member of the cytokinin receptor protein in rice.
15101095	Aluminum (Al) toxicity is the major factor limiting crop productivity in acid soils. In this study, a recombinant inbreed line (RIL) population derived from a cross between an Al sensitive lowland indica rice variety IR1552 and an Al tolerant upland japonica rice variety Azucena, was used for mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for Al tolerance. Three QTLs for relative root length (RRL) were detected on chromosome 1, 9, 12, respectively, and 1 QTL for root length under Al stress is identical on chromosome 1 after one week and two weeks stress. Comparison of QTLs on chromosome 1 from different studies indicated an identical interval between C86 and RZ801 with gene(s) for Al tolerance. This interval provides an important start point for isolating genes responsible for Al tolerance and understanding the genetic nature of Al tolerance in rice. Four Al induced ESTs located in this interval were screened by reverse Northern analysis and confirmed by Northern analysis. They would be candidate genes for the QTL.
15101099	A machine vision system was developed to inspect the quality of rice seeds. Five varieties of Jinyou402, Shanyou10, Zhongyou207, Jiayou and IIyou were evaluated. The images of both sides of rice seed with black background and white background were acquired with the image processing system for identifying external features of rice seeds. Five image sets consisting of 600 original images each were obtained. Then a digital image processing algorithm based on Hough transform was developed to inspect the rice seeds with incompletely closed glumes. The algorithm was implemented with all image sets using a Matlab 6.5 procedure. The results showed that the algorithm achieved an average accuracy of 96% for normal seeds, 92% for seeds with fine fissure and 87% for seeds with incompletely closed glumes. The algorithm was proved to be applicable to different seed varieties and insensitive to the color of the background.
15101474
15102067	Summary It is now well established that the cereals share a common gene order or gene synteny. However, the cereal species encompass an enormous range of genome size, with wheat being one of the largest and rice one of the smallest. Here we describe the current state of knowledge of interphase chromosome structure within the cereal species. In wheat and its close relatives, the interphase chromosomes adopt a highly regular Rabl configuration, with the two chromosome arms lying next to each other and the centromeres and telomeres located at opposite poles of the nuclei. By contrast, the chromosomes in most rice nuclei clearly do not show a Rabl configuration. Surprisingly, the chromosomes in the endoreduplicated xylem vessel cells of rice do adopt a Rabl configuration. To explain this observation, we propose that endoreduplication may occur immediately after chromosome segregation in these cells, and that the new chromatin interactions, particularly at the centromeres, in the endoreduplicated chromosomes may stabilize the anaphase chromosome configuration.
15103410	A better understanding of the genetics of seedling characteristics in rice could be helpful in improving rice varieties. Zhenshan 97 and Minghui 63, the parents of Shanyou 63, an elite hybrid developed during the last decade in China, vary greatly with respect to their physiological and morphological traits at the seedling growth stage. In this study, we used a population of 240 recombinant inbred lines derived from a cross between Zhenshan 97 and Minghui 63 to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) for seedling characteristics. All plant material was grown in hydroponic culture. Data for the following characters were collected at 30 days and 40 days post-sowing: plant height, shoot dry matter weight (SDW), maximum root length, root dry weight (RDW), total dry weight, and root-shoot ratio (the ratio of SDW to RDW). Analysis using composite interval mapping detected 16 QTL for the six traits in 30-day-old seedlings. Of these 16 QTL, Minghui 63 alleles increased trait values at only two of them. The QTL in the vicinity of R3166 on chromosome 5 simultaneously influenced PH, SDW, MRL, RDW, and TDW in the same direction. Twenty QTL were detected for the same traits in the 40-day-old seedlings. However, at this stage Minghui 63 alleles increased trait values at eight QTL. The QTL linked to R3166 also affected PH, SDW, MRL, RDW, and TDW. Only four QTL were common to the two stages. These results clearly indicate that different genes (QTL) control the same traits during different time intervals. Zhenshan 97 alleles had positive effects during the first 30 days of seedling growth, but thereafter the positive effects of Minghui 63 alleles on seedling growth gradually became more pronounced.
15104142	Colonization ability of the two endophytic bacteria, isolated from surface sterilized seeds of Jaisurya variety of deep-water rice viz., Pantoea sp. and Ochrobactrum sp., was compared after genetically tagging them with a constitutively expressing green fluorescent protein gene (gfp). Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) of hydroponically grown seedlings of Jaisurya rice, inoculated with gfp-tagged endophytes, revealed that both Pantoea sp. and Ochrobactrum sp. colonized the intercellular spaces in the root cortex when inoculated separately. Colonization by gfp-tagged Ochrobactrum sp. was severely inhibited when co-inoculated with an equal number (10(5) c.f.u. ml(-1)) of wild type Pantoea sp., but the converse was not true. Pantoea sp. was a more aggressive endophytic colonizer of its host than Ochrobactrum sp. The potential of using GFP reporter and CLSM as tools in evaluating competitive ability of colonization among endophytes is herewith demonstrated.
15104153	Since its recognition as an effective tool to identify Schistosoma haematobium infection, haematuria detection has been used in several large scale control programs. However, large variations in performance between age groups, gender, prevalence and areas were observed. Correlation between the degree of haematuria and the intensity of infection and between intensity of infection with age and/or gender could partly explained these variations. Other factors, such as the circadian cycles and day-to-day variations of haematuria and egg excretion, a concomitant presence of blood in urine for another reason than schistosomiasis and the intrinsic characteristics of the reagents strips also contribute to the observed variations. This study assessed the influence of age, gender and intensity of infection taken together on the performance of the diagnostic test by fitting logistic regression models. During a socio-economic study of schistosomiasis, carried out between 1989 and 1991 in a rice-growing area located in Mali, West Africa, haematuria was detected by reagent strips among 2,873 six-year-old and more subjects randomly chosen from 14 villages. The "gold standard" of infection was provided by the parasite egg counts. Laboratory quality controls were implemented. Observed sensitivities, specificities, positive and negative predictive values were calculated by the standard two-by-two tables. The influence of age, gender, intensity of infection, measured in a continuous scale, on these parameters were studied by fitting two logistic models. The first one modelled sensitivity and specificity The second one modelled predictive values. Goodness-of-fit tests were performed. Large variations in the observed values of sensitivities, specificities and predictive values by age and gender were observed. The best fitted model for sensitivity and specificity included infection status, age, gender, intensity and an age by gender interaction. For the predictive values, the best model included haematuria, age, and an haematuria by age interaction. Given the large variations in the performances across the covariates strata defined by cross-tabulation of the age/gender and intensity categories, this modelling approach provided a more realistic appraisal of the performances than using overall values obtained from a general two- by-two table. It allowed to assess the effect of the covariates of interest on the performances of the test and provided an adjustment of the performances on these covariates. The best fitted model was able to provide estimates of sensitivity for each age/gender stratum as a function of the intensity of infection, which could not be done by using the two-by-two table approach. A decrease in sensitivity adjusted for intensity of infection above 10 years of age among males is discussed. This modelling approach also uses all the information available and not only the data from the stratum of interest.
15104155	The relation between agricultural land development of inland-valleys and health population has been studied in a town of the Ivorian forest area using urinary schistosomiasis as an indicator. Snails were collected during 4 months in rice fields and water holes used for market gardening of two urban inland-valleys (Batagnihi and Gakognihi). Prevalence of schistosomiasis was evaluated in two districts, Kennedy II and Fadiga, located close to the investigated inland-valleys. Schistosomiasis risk was higher in the Batagnihi where rice cultivation was more developed and prevalence of urinary schistosomiasis was higher in the Kennedy II district which is close to this inland-valley particularly among the Northern migrant people. The Kennedy II population has much more contacts with the inland-valley because of rice cultivation and social status. The higher socio-economic level of the Fadiga population limiting its contacts with the inland-valley can explain this result.
15104602	To systematically summarise the available evidence concerning the rate of folic acid supplement use pre- and periconceptionally, to identify those characteristics associated with low rates of use and to assess whether folic acid public awareness campaigns are associated with higher folic acid use. Systematic overview. Survey studies. Women of reproductive age, most of whom were currently or recently pregnant. Two investigators searched MEDLINE, Embase and Nutriotiongate databases between 1990 and 2003. Bibliographies of retrieved references were scanned for other relevant publications, and authors were contacted if necessary. Studies were included that evaluated the rate of folic acid supplement use either before conception or in early pregnancy. Rate of preconceptional and/or periconceptional folic acid use, rate of planned pregnancy in each study, as well as significant characteristics differentiating non-users from users of folic acid, including the effect of folic acid awareness campaigns. A total of 52 studies were included. In 34 studies, reported preconceptional folic acid use varied from 0.9% to 50%. In 49 studies, the reported rate of periconceptional supplement use ranged from 0.5% to 52%. Significant predictors of reduced periconceptional folic acid use were a low level of formal education, immigrant status, young maternal age, lack of a partner and an unplanned pregnancy. Four studies examined the effect of mass media campaigns on periconceptional folic acid use; the reported rates increased significantly, by a factor of 1.7 to 7.2, but in no study was the post-campaign rate above 50%. In many countries, fewer than 50% of women take periconceptional folic acid supplements. Consideration should be given to the practical advantages of folic acid fortification of centrally processed foods, such as wheat, corn and rice flour, while further promoting vitamin tablet supplement use and planned pregnancy.
15105026	We investigated the effect of folic acid fortification of enriched cereal grains on folate intake in women of predominantly childbearing age at high risk for cervical cancer. Subjects in this cross-sectional study were 77 women randomized between November 1999 and December 2000 in the Women's Intervention to Stay Healthy (WISH), a clinical trial evaluating the effect of a tobacco control intervention on the progression of cervical dysplasia. All subjects were cigarette smokers, had a previously abnormal Papanicolaou test, and were positive for high-risk human papillomavirus at entry. Dietary intake was assessed with food-frequency questionnaires completed at the baseline visit for WISH. The effect of folic acid fortification on folate intake was assessed by using pre- and postfortification folate databases to estimate folate intake. Mean folate intake assessed with the postfortification database was 63% higher than intake assessed with the prefortification database: 417 versus 256 microg/d of dietary folate equivalents (P < 0.0001). The proportion of subjects below the estimated average requirement for folate was smaller after fortification than before fortification: 40.3% versus 75.3% (P < 0.0001). Several foods, including white bread, cheese dishes, spaghetti, and rice, became major sources of folate as a result of fortification. Folic acid fortification resulted in an increased intake of folate in these subjects. However, even with fortification, folate intake in a large proportion of these women remained below recommended levels. These results should be considered before decisions regarding future levels of folic acid fortification are made.
15105442	Receptor-like kinases (RLKs) belong to the large RLK/Pelle gene family, and it is known that the Arabidopsis thaliana genome contains >600 such members, which play important roles in plant growth, development, and defense responses. Surprisingly, we found that rice (Oryza sativa) has nearly twice as many RLK/Pelle members as Arabidopsis does, and it is not simply a consequence of a larger predicted gene number in rice. From the inferred phylogeny of all Arabidopsis and rice RLK/Pelle members, we estimated that the common ancestor of Arabidopsis and rice had >440 RLK/Pelles and that large-scale expansions of certain RLK/Pelle members and fusions of novel domains have occurred in both the Arabidopsis and rice lineages since their divergence. In addition, the extracellular domains have higher nonsynonymous substitution rates than the intracellular domains, consistent with the role of extracellular domains in sensing diverse signals. The lineage-specific expansions in Arabidopsis can be attributed to both tandem and large-scale duplications, whereas tandem duplication seems to be the major mechanism for recent expansions in rice. Interestingly, although the RLKs that are involved in development seem to have rarely been duplicated after the Arabidopsis-rice split, those that are involved in defense/disease resistance apparently have undergone many duplication events. These findings led us to hypothesize that most of the recent expansions of the RLK/Pelle family have involved defense/resistance-related genes.
15105688
15105886	This study compared cultural and analytical methods for detecting aflatoxin production by Aspergillus species. Aspergillus isolates were obtained from various Mississippi Delta crops (corn, peanut, rice, cotton) and soils. Most of the isolates (99%) were A. flavus and the remainder comprised A. parasiticus and A. nomius. The following three cultural methods were evaluated on potato dextrose agar: fluorescence (FL) on beta-cyclodextrin-containing media (CD), yellow pigment (YP) formation in mycelium and medium, and color change after ammonium hydroxide vapor exposure (AV). Aflatoxins in culture extracts were confirmed by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Of the 517 isolates, 314 produced greater than 20 ng/g of total aflatoxin based on ELISA, and 180 produced greater than 10 000 ng/g of aflatoxin in the medium. Almost all the toxigenic isolates (97%) were confirmed by TLC as producers. Of the toxigenic isolates, as determined by ELISA, 93%, 73%, and 70% gave positive FL, YP, and AV responses, respectively. Of the 203 isolates producing less than 20 ng/g of aflatoxin, 20%, 6%, and 0% of respective FL, YP, and AV methods gave false-positive responses. The 9% false-positive results from TLC fall within this range. This study showed good agreement among all tested cultural methods. However, these cultural techniques did not detect aflatoxin in all cultures that were found to produce aflatoxins by ELISA, LC/MS, and TLC. The best results were obtained when the AV color change and CD fluorescence methods were used together, yielding an overall success rate comparable to TLC but without the need for chemical extraction and the time and expense of TLC.
15105992	International rice export markets are increasing demands for rapid improvements in grain quality characteristics. The African rice Oryza glaberrima is a new potential source of genes that will enhance the eating, cooking, and milling properties of the rice grain. The objective of this research was to identify and characterize quantitative trait loci (QTLs) among 312 doubled haploid lines derived from the BC3F1 of an interspecific cross of O. sativa x O. glaberrima. Genetic material was planted in replicated plots and evaluated for ten grain quality traits in 2001 in Colombia. A linkage map was constructed with 100 polymorphic microsatellite markers using the mapdisto software program to adjust for segregation distortion. Transgressive segregation was observed for all traits. Interval and composite interval analyses identified 27 QTLs for nine characters located on 11/12 chromosomes. The chromosomal positions of QTLs for percentage amylose, alkali-spreading score, and percentage protein were in agreement with data reported by others, whereas QTL markers for percentage head rice, percentage milled rice, percentage protein, and percentage brown rice were different in our mapping population. Five major QTLs were found to be associated with improved percentage rice bran, percentage amylose, and alkali-spreading score. Seven QTLs for improved percentage rice bran, percentage milled rice, alkali-spreading score, percentage protein, and grain length/width ratio were derived from the O. glaberrima accession. Three new QTLs for percentage rice bran are reported here for the first time. Results from this study suggest that the African rice might be a valuable new source for introgression and improvement of several traits that affect quality traits demanded by the different rice export markets.
15105995	EST and genomic DNA sequencing efforts for rice and wheat have provided the basis for interpreting genome organization and evolution. In this study we have used EST and genomic sequencing information and a bioinformatic approach in a two-step strategy to align portions of the wheat and rice genomes. In the first step, wheat ESTs were used to identify rice orthologs and it was shown that wheat 3S and rice 1 contain syntenic units with intrachromosomal rearrangements. Further analysis using anchored rice contiguous sequences and TBLASTX alignments in a second alignment step showed interruptions by orthologous genes that map elsewhere in the wheat genome. This indicates that gene content and order is not as conserved as large chromosomal blocks as previously predicted. Similarly, chromosome 7L contains syntenic units with rice 6 and 8 but is interrupted by combinations of intrachromosomal and interchromosomal rearrangements involving syntenic units and single gene orthologs from other rice chromosome groups. We have used the rice sequence annotations to identify genes that can be used to develop markers linked to biosynthetic pathways on 3BS controlling xanthophyll production in wheat and thus involved in determining flour colour.
15107503	Graminaceous monocots, including most of the world's staple grains (i.e. rice, corn, and wheat) use a chelation strategy (Strategy II) for primary acquisition of iron from the soil. Strategy II plants secrete phytosiderophores (PS), compounds of the mugineic acid family that form stable Fe(III) chelates in soil. Uptake of iron-PS chelates, which occurs through specific transporters at the root surface, thus represents the primary route of iron entry into Strategy II plants. The gene Yellow stripe1 (Ys1) encodes the Fe(III)-PS transporter of maize (Zea mays). Here the physiological functions performed by maize YS1 were further defined by examining the pattern of Ys1 mRNA and protein accumulation and by defining YS1 transport specificity in detail. YS1 is able to translocate iron that is bound either by PS or by the related compound, nicotianamine; thus, the role of YS1 may be to transport either of these complexes. Ys1 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels responds rapidly to changes in iron availability but is not strongly affected by limitation of copper or zinc. Our data provide no support for the idea that YS1 is a transporter of zinc-PS, based on YS1 biochemical activity and Ys1 mRNA expression patterns in response to zinc deficiency. YS1 is capable of transporting copper-PS, but expression data suggest that the copper-PS uptake has limited significance in primary uptake of copper.
15109899	The dynamics of cyclic peptide destruxins (dtxs) produced by Metarhizium anisopliae strains V245 and V275 were monitored both on solid and in liquid media. The results showed that both strains did not produce dtxs in large-scale fermenter cultures or solid Czapek Dox (CD) agar. Production of the major dtxs A and B could be determined in both strains when grown on rice for up to 10-30 days. The main dtxs A, B, E, and E diol were detected in CD liquid culture filtrate from both strains after three days post-inoculation on. Parallel decrease of dtx E and increase of E diol in the culture medium were found, indicating that the latter is the hydrolytic product from the former. Production of dtxs A and B was significantly positively correlated. A negative correlation was observed between the production of the metabolites and pH value of the medium. The influence of different nutrient sources on dtx production was evaluated by using media with different carbon and nitrogen ratios as well as with different insect homogenates. The findings showed that the amount of dtxs A, B, and E increased with the increasing content of peptone in the medium. When insect homogenate was used as single nutrient source or added to CD medium, no toxins were detected in the culture filtrate. The potential risk posed by the toxic metabolites during mass production is discussed.
15110693	A flavone (5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone), a cyclohexenone (3-isopropyl-5-acetoxycyclohexene-2-one-1) and a liquid mixture of low polarity, containing long-chain and cyclic hydrocarbons, were isolated from leaves of allelopathic rice accession PI 312777 using column chromatography. Their structures and constituents were identified by means of HR-MS, NMR and GC/MS analyses, respectively. Bioassays showed that both the flavone and cyclohexenone significantly inhibited the growth of weeds Echinochloa crus-galli, Cyperus difformis and Cyperus iris, and the spore germination of fungal pathogens Pyricularia oryzae and Rhizoctonia solani at all tested concentrations. Moreover, the combination of the inactive mixture of low polarity and the active flavone or cyclohexenone significantly enhanced the inhibitory activities on weed growth. In addition, the two compounds and the mixture of low polarity from the leaves of PI312777 did not inhibit the rice growth at the same concentrations. It was also established that both compounds could be released into the soil, and was especially induced by E. crus-galli. The results suggest that 5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone and 3-isopropyl- 5-acetoxycyclohexene-2-one-1 may act as allelochemicals participating in the defense of rice against weeds and pathogens.
15110863	Toxicity to o-sec-butylphenyl methylcarbamate compound (BPMC) was analyzed in the rice brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, using a differential proteomics approach of identifying proteins on two dimensional-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE). Proteome analysis from BPMC-treated brown planthopper resulted in the modulation of 22 proteins at the expression level as compared to control samples on coomassie brilliant blue (CBB) stained gels. Out of total 22 proteins, 10 proteins showed elevated expression, eight proteins showed decreased expression and four proteins showed specific expression after insecticide treatment. The N-terminal sequences of seven out of 22 proteins were determined by a gas-phase protein sequencer. The internal amino acid sequences of the 15 proteins were determined by the sequence analyses of peptides obtained by Cleveland peptide mapping method and were compared with those of the known proteins available in public databases and the EST database of the brown planthopper in our laboratory to understand the nature of the proteins. Sequence analyses revealed that the expression of putative serine/threonine protein kinase, paramyosin, HSP 90, beta-tubulin, calreticulin, ATP synthase, actin and tropomyosin was elevated, and that of beta-mitochondrial processing peptidase, dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase, enolase and acyl-coA dehydrogenase was reduced due to the exposure of BPMC. The differential expression of these proteins reflects the overall change in cellular structure and metabolism after insecticide treatment.
15111712	Dof (DNA-binding with one finger) domain proteins are plant-specific transcription factors with a highly conserved DNA-binding domain, which presumably includes a single C(2)-C(2) zinc finger. During the past decade, numerous Dof domain proteins have been identified in both monocots and dicots including maize, barley, wheat, rice, tobacco, Arabidopsis, pumpkin, potato, and pea. Biochemical, molecular biological and molecular genetic analyses revealed that Dof domain proteins function as a transcriptional activator or a repressor involved in diverse plant-specific biological processes. Although more physiological roles of Dof domain proteins would be elucidated in future because of numerous Dof domain proteins in plants, it is already evident that the Dof domain proteins play critical roles as transcriptional regulators in plant growth and development. Here I summarize our current knowledge about Dof domain proteins.
15111719	The non dormant-1 (nd-1) mutant of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) is characterized by an albino and viviparous phenotype. Pigment analysis by spectrophotometer and HPLC demonstrated in nd-1 cotyledons the absence of beta-carotene, lutein and violaxanthin. Additionally, we found a strong accumulation of zeta-carotene and, to a lesser extent, of phytofluene and cis-phytoene in nd-1 seedlings grown in very dim light (1 micro mol m(-2) s(-1)). These results suggested that zeta-carotene desaturation was impaired in the mutant plants. To understand the molecular basis of the nd-1 mutation, we cloned and characterized the zeta-carotene desaturase (Zds) gene from sunflower. A reconstructed full-length sequence (1,916 bp) of the Zds cDNA was obtained from homozygous Nd-1/Nd-1 wild-type plants. It contains a 1,761-bp CDS, 62 nucleotides of 5'-untranslated region (UTR), and 77 nucleotides of 3'-UTR. The predicted protein (64.9 kDa) consists of 587 amino acid residues with a putative transit sequence for plastid targeting in the N-terminal region and a typical amino oxidase domain that includes the flavin adenosine dinucleotide (FAD) binding motif. The phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that the sunflower Zds was clustered to marigold (Tagetes) Zds gene, for which it showed an overall aminoacidic identity of 96.6% and resulted strictly correlated with other Zds sequences of higher plants. Interestingly, RT-PCR analyses showed that nd-1 plants were unable to accumulate Zds transcripts. Sequence information from the Zds cDNA was used to design specific primers and to isolate the full-length exons/introns region of the gene. The sunflower Zds gene (HaZds) comprises 14 exons and 13 introns scattered in a ca. 5.0-kb region. Also, HaZds showed a high conservation of the distribution and size of the exons with rice Zds gene. Based on genomic Southern analysis, the nd-1 genome disclosed a large deficiency at the Zds locus.
15111721	The Brachiaria hybrid cv. Mulato is well adapted to low-fertility acid soils deficient in phosphorus (P). To study the grassy forage's mechanisms for tolerating low P supply, we compared it with rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Kitaake). We tested by using nutrient solution cultures, and quantified the effects of P deficiency on the enzymatic activities of phosphohydrolases and on carbon metabolism in P-deficient leaves. While P deficiency markedly induced activity of phosphohydrolases in both crops, the ratio of inorganic phosphorus to total P in leaves was greater in Brachiaria hybrid. Phosphorus deficiency in leaves also markedly influenced the partitioning of carbon in both crops. In the Brachiaria hybrid, compared with rice, the smaller proportion of (14)C partitioned into sugars and the larger proportion into amino acids and organic acids in leaves coincided with decreased levels of sucrose and starch. Hence, in P-deficient leaves of the Brachiaria hybrid, triose-P was metabolized into amino acids or organic acids. Results thus indicate that the Brachiaria hybrid, compared with rice, tolerates low P supply to leaves by enhancing sugar catabolism and by inducing the activity of several phosphohydrolases. This apparently causes rapid P turnover and enables the Brachiaria hybrid to use P more efficiently.
15111723	Although the discovery of aquaporins in plants has resulted in a paradigm shift in the understanding of plant water relations, the relationship between aquaporins and drought resistance still remains elusive. From an agronomic viewpoint, upland rice is traditionally considered as showing drought avoidance. In the investigation of different morphological and physiological responses of upland rice (Oryza sativa L. spp indica cv. Zhonghan 3) and lowland rice (O. sativa L. spp japonica cv. Xiushui 63) to water deficit, we observed young leaf rolling and the remarkable decline of cumulative transpiration in the upland rice. The expression of water channel protein RWC3 mRNA was increased in upland rice at the early response (up to 4 h) to the 20% polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000 treatment, whereas there was no significant expression changes in lowland rice. Protein levels were increased in upland rice and decreased in lowland rice at 10 h after the water deficit. The up-regulation of RWC3 in upland rice fits well with the knowledge that upland rice adopts the mechanism of drought avoidance. The physiological significance of this RWC3 up-regulation was then explored with the over-expression of RWC3 in transgenic lowland rice (O. sativa L. spp japonica cv. Zhonghua 11) controlled by a stress-inducible SWPA2 promoter. Compared to the wild-type plant, the transgenic lowland rice exhibited higher root osmotic hydraulic conductivity (Lp), leaf water potential and relative cumulative transpiration at the end of 10 h PEG treatment. These results indicated that RWC3 probably played a role in drought avoidance in rice.
15111724	Since the recent sequencing of the rice genome, the functional identification of rice genes has become increasingly important. Various tagged lines have been generated; however, the number of tagged genes available is not sufficient for extensive study of gene function. To help identify the functions of genes in rice, we developed a Gateway vector, pANDA, for RNA interference of rice genes. This vector can be used for Agrobacterium transformation of rice and allows easy and fast construction of efficient RNAi vectors. In the construct, hairpin RNA derived from a given gene is transcribed from a strong maize ubiquitin promoter, and an intron is placed 5' upstream of inverted repeats to enhance RNA expression. Analysis of rice genes using this vector showed that suppression of mRNA expression was observed in more than 90% of transgenic plants examined, and short interfering RNA indicative of RNA silencing was detected in each silenced plant. A similar vector, pANDA-mini, was also developed for direct transfer into leaf cells or protoplasts. This vector can be used for transient suppression of gene function in rice. These vectors should help identify the functions of rice genes whose tagged mutants are not available at present and complement existing methods for functional genomics of rice.
15111725	We isolated a cDNA (OsTPC1) from rice that was homologous to AtTPC1, a putative voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel (VDCC) gene of Arabidopsis thaliana. The hydropathy profile of its deduced amino acid sequence showed significant structural features of the alpha 1-subunit of animal VDCCs. Functional analysis using a heterologous yeast expression system showed that OsTPC1 facilitates Ca(2+) permeation. The K(m) value for Ca(2+) of OsTPC1, 47.5 micro M, was comparable to that of intrinsic CCH1, a candidate VDCC in yeast. Ca(2+) permeation by OsTPC1 was inhibited by verapamil, a VDCC blocker. These findings indicate for the first time that OsTPC1 is a putative VDCC in rice.
15112330	Ovorubin and PV2 are the major lipoglycocarotenoproteins present in the perivitellus of the freshwater snail eggs of Pomacea canaliculata, a rapidly expanding rice field pest. We have previously characterized these two particles regarding their lipid and protein compositions, their synthesis and tissular distribution, and their contributions of energy and structural precursors for the developing embryo. In the present study, we have characterized the glycosidic moieties associated to these perivitellines. Both proteins were isolated from egg homogenates by ultracentrifugation, and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using anionic exchange and size exclusion columns. Total carbohydrates accounted for 17.8% and 2.5% (w/w) of the apparent molecular mass of ovorubin and PV2, respectively. Analysis by size exclusion chromatography showed that the amount of O-linked oligosaccharides is higher than that of the N-linked species (59% and 67% w/w of total carbohydrates of ovorubin and PV2, respectively). Glycosylation patterns were determined by a set of biotinilated lectins onto blotted purified proteins. Lectin affinities confirmed the presence of aspargine-linked carbohydrates, probably of hybrid and high mannose types. Jacaline affinity suggested the presence of O-linked residues derived from the T-antigen. Total carbohydrate composition determined by gas liquid chromatography (GLC) showed that mannose was the major monosaccharide in both perivitellins followed by GlcNAc and Gal in ovorubin, and Gal and GlcNAc in PV2. Only one fatty acid (22:1 n-9) accounted for 46% and 56% of the fatty acids present in ovorubin and PV2, respectively. Carbohydrate role on these reserve proteins during embryogenesis of the apple snail is discussed.
15113917	Rice dwarf virus (RDV) is a member of the genus Phytoreovirus, which is composed of viruses with segmented double-stranded RNA genomes. Proteins that support the intercellular movement of these viruses in the host have not been identified. Microprojectile bombardment was used to determine which open reading frames (ORFs) support intercellular movement of a heterologous virus. A plasmid containing an infectious clone of Potato virus X (PVX) defective in cell-to-cell movement and expressing either beta-glucuronidase or green fluorescent protein (GFP) was used for cobombardment with plasmids containing ORFs from RDV gene segments S1 through S12 onto leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana. Cell-to-cell movement of the movement-defective PVX was restored by cobombardment with a plasmid containing S6. In the absence of S6, no other gene segment supported movement. Identical results were obtained with Nicotiana tabacum, a host that allows fewer viruses to infect and spread within its tissue. S6 supported the cell-to-cell movement of the movement-defective PVX in sink and source leaves of N. benthamiana. A mutant S6 lacking the translation start codon did not complement the cell-to-cell movement of the movement-defective PVX. An S6 protein product (Pns6)-enhanced GFP fusion was observed near or within cell walls of epidermal cells from N. tabacum. By immunocytochemistry, unfused Pns6 was localized to plasmodesmata in rice leaves infected with RDV. S6 thus encodes a protein with characteristics identical to those of other viral proteins required for the cell-to-cell movement of their genome and therefore is likely required for the cell-to-cell movement of RDV.
15113951	There is little information on the risk of micronutrient deficiencies during the period of exclusive breast-feeding. We evaluated this among term, low-birthweight (LBW; 1500-2500 g) infants in Honduras. Mother-infant pairs were recruited in the hospital and assisted with exclusive breast-feeding during the first 4 mo. At 4 mo, infants were randomly assigned to either continue exclusive breast-feeding to 6 mo (EBF; n = 59) or be given iron-fortified complementary foods (rice, chicken, fruits, and vegetables) from 4 to 6 mo while continuing to breast-feed (SF, n = 60). Blood samples were collected at 2, 4, and 6 mo and analyzed for hemoglobin (Hb), hematocrit, plasma ferritin, % transferrin saturation, vitamin A, vitamin B-12, folate, zinc, and erythrocyte folate. Infants with Hb < 100 g/L at 2 or 4 mo were given medicinal iron supplements for 2 mo; the proportion administered iron drops did not differ significantly between groups. There was no significant effect of complementary foods on indices of vitamin A, B-12, folate, or zinc status. Among infants not given medicinal iron at 4-6 mo, iron status was higher in the SF group than the EBF group. In those given medicinal iron at 4-6 mo, iron status was higher in the EBF group, suggesting that complementary foods interfered with iron utilization. About half of the infants were anemic by 2 mo, before the age when complementary foods would be recommended. This supports the recommendation that LBW infants should receive iron supplementation in early infancy. Given that infants given iron supplements did not benefit from complementary foods at 4-6 mo, we conclude that exclusive breast-feeding for 6 mo (with iron supplementation) can be recommended for term, LBW infants.
15115080	Humans are thought to acquire Toxoplasma infection by three major routes: ingesting food and water contaminated with oocysts from cat excreta, consumption of under-cooked infected meat, and transplacental transfer. Congenital clinical toxoplasmosis in the newborn indicating definite transplacental transmission had been reported in Thailand, whilst studies concerning infection due to the other two routes were inconclusive. Since the way domestic cats live and eat and also the eating behavior of Thai people differ from those in the West, we conducted a sero-epidemiological study of T. gondii in cats and their owners in Bangkok metropolitan area. Among 327 humans, the prevalence of Toxoplasma antibody was 6.4% and in 315 cats it was 7.3%. These relatively low prevalence rates may result from the predominantly well-cooked fish and rice diet of stray cats, which congregate in temples where they are fed. Toxoplasma antibody seropositive was associated with living in close proximity to seropositivity cats [OR (95% CI) = 5.43 (1.28-23.04); p=0.01]. Risks were increased in and around temples, particularly if courtyards were of earth or grass, suggesting ground temperature was an important determinant of oocyst survival.
15115290	We describe a new class of plant small heat stress proteins (sHsps) with dominant nuclear localization (Hsp17-CIII). The corresponding proteins in tomato, Arabidopsis, and rice are encoded by unique genes containing a short intron in the beta4-encoding region of the alpha-crystallin domain (ACD). The strong nuclear localization results from a cluster of basic amino acid residues in the loop between beta5 and beta6 of the ACD. Using yeast 2-hybrid tests, analyses of native complexes of the sHsps, and immunofluorescence data, we demonstrate that, in contrast to earlier observations (Kirschner et al 2000), proteins of the sHsp classes CI, CII, and CIII interact with each other, thereby influencing oligomerization state and intracellular localization.
15117548	In the present work we investigated the effects of brown rice extracts on proliferation and apoptosis of cancer cells. Brown rice extracts were prepared using nongerminated brown rice versus germinated brown rices. Mouse leukemia L1210 cells, human acute lymphoblastic leukemia Molt4 cells, and human cervical cancer HeLa cells were treated with either nongerminated brown rice extract (N ex), water-germinated extract (W ex), chitosan-germinated extract (C ex), glutamic acid-germinated brown rice extract (G ex), or chitosan/glutamic acid-germinated brown rice extract (CG ex). The concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the G ex and CG ex were three and 3.3 times higher than the GABA concentration in the N ex, respectively. The G ex and CG ex retarded significantly the proliferation rates of L1210 and Molt4 cells, and the highest retardation rate was with CG ex. In addition, the G ex and CG ex enhanced significantly apoptosis of the cultured L1210 cells, but no significant apoptosis was seen with the other extracts, which have lower concentrations of GABA than G ex and CG ex. These results show that brown rice extracts with enhanced levels of GABA have an inhibitory action on leukemia cell proliferation and have a stimulatory action on the cancer cell apoptosis.
15118305	Selection of foods by animals largely depends on their physiological condition. In this paper, we reported how physiological changes in rats after ingestion of sake (Japanese rice wine) affected their preference for different kinds of sake. Rats could discriminate among various kinds of sakes in a two-bottle choice test, even after adjustment of the glucose concentration or alcohol concentration of the sake, suggesting that the choice of a sake by animals was based on more than one ingredient. To identify effect of a rat's physiological condition on the selection of sake, we monitored the levels of blood glucose, nonesterified fatty acids (NEFA), and ketone bodies in serum in mice after forced intragastric ingestion of sake that had previously been offered to the rats in a two-bottle choice test. Blood glucose levels in mice were not different between the rats fed the palatable and unpalatable sakes, and the NEFA level and ketone level were high in rats fed the unpalatable sake. To further clarify the relationship between physiological condition and preference for sake, rats were offered eight kinds of Junmai-syu, which is made with only rice and no sub-ingredient. Rats could still discriminate among Junmai-syu. Furthermore, with two exceptions, the preference for a sake was significantly correlated with the ketone level. The order in the ratio of blood insulin level to blood glucagon level, which is an indicator of metabolism, was correlated with the order in preference to sake. These results suggest that some physiological factors besides oral stimulation also are important factors in the selection of a sake.
15118317	The rice Oryza sativa selenium-binding protein homologue (OsSBP) gene encodes a homologue of mammalian selenium-binding proteins, and it has been isolated as one of the genes induced by treating a plant with a cerebroside elicitor from rice blast fungus. The possible role of OsSBP in plant defense was evaluated by using a transgenic approach. Plants overexpressing OsSBP showed enhanced resistance to a virulent strain of rice blast fungus as well as to rice bacterial blight. The expression of defense-related genes and the accumulation of phytoalexin after infection by rice blast fungus were accelerated in the OsSBP overexpressors. A higher level of H(2)O(2) accumulation and reduced activity of such scavenging enzymes as ascorbate peroxidase and catalase were seen when the OsSBP-overexpressing plants were treated with the protein phosphatase 1 inhibitor, calyculin A. These results suggest that the upregulation of OsSBP expression conferred enhanced tolerance to different pathogens, possibly by increasing plant sensitivity to endogenous defense responses. Additionally, the OsSBP protein might have a role in modulating the defense mechanism to biotic stress in rice.
15118338	We isolated and characterized two rice nuclear genes, OsSIG2A and OsSIG2B, encoding the putative sigma-factor of the plastid RNA polymerase. Deduced protein sequences predicted a plastid-localizing signal in the N-terminus and subsequent polypeptides similar to known SIG2 proteins. Gene expression analysis revealed that the OsSIG2A transcript is more abundant than the OsSIG2B transcript in all tissues tested and that both rice SIG2s are expressed from earlier stages of leaf development than that in the case of OsSIG1. These results indicate differential expression of SIG genes in leaf morphogenesis, suggesting the existence of tissue- and stage-specific functions of SIG proteins for transcriptional regulation of chloroplast genes in plant development.
15118822	Bacterial blight of rice, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) (Ishyama) Dye, is one of the serious diseases prevalent throughout Asia. In a previous study, a resistance (R) locus was transferred from the tetraploid wild rice Oryza minuta to the cultivated rice species, Oryza sativa L. Here, we report the fine genetic mapping of the R locus, tentatively designated as Xa27(t). We performed disease evaluation with an Xa27(t) near-isogenic line, IRBB27, testing 35 Xoo strains collected from 11 countries. The Xa27(t) locus conferred a high level of resistance to 27 strains and moderate resistance to three strains. Resistance of the Xa27(t) gene was developmentally regulated in IRBB27 and showed semi-dominant or a dosage effect in the cv. CO39 genetic background. As a prelude to cloning Xa27(t), a molecular mapping strategy was employed with a large mapping population consisting of 3,875 gametes. Three molecular markers, M336, M1081, and M1059, closely linked to Xa27(t), were identified to facilitate the mapping of Xa27(t) to the long arm of chromosome 6. The Xa27(t) locus was confirmed by chromosome landing of M1081 and M1095 markers on the rice genome. Markers derived from the genomic sequence of O. sativa cv. Nipponbare were used to further saturate the Xa27(t) genomic region. Xa27(t) was finally located within a genetic interval of 0.052 cM, flanked by markers M964 and M1197, and co-segregated with markers M631, M1230, and M449.
15119855	Twelve selected Cyathus species were tested for their abilities to produce antimicrobial metabolites. Most of them were found to produce secondary exo-metabolites that could induce morphological abnormalities of rice pathogenic fungi Pyricularia oryzae. Some extracts from the cultivated liquid obviously inhibited human pathogenic fungi Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans. Activities against six human pathogenic bacteria were also obtained from some of these extracts.
15120435	The insoluble organic fraction isolated from rice-hulls residues and animal fecal matter mixture is sulphonated in liquid SO3 at 200 degrees C to a water soluble sulphonate (III). III is compared to the sulphonate (IV) obtained from the same mix after composting. Both products have been found to contain mixtures of molecules with close molecular weight. These molecules consist of a central cicloaliphatic cluster with peripheral pending aromatic chains. III and IV appear to have the same sulphonation degree. However, the latter contains higher concentrations of cicloaliphatic fragments and of amide, phenol and ether bonds, but less carboxylic and amine functional groups. These differences may be reasonably traced back to the starting materials. By comparison with commercial lignosulphonates derived from the paper and pulp industry, the above arylsulphonates are likely candidates for a variety of applications in the chemical industry and in agriculture. We conclude that sulphonation, even under the drastic experimental conditions of this work, does not seem to erase the memory of the parent matter structure. This reaction is capable of upgrading recalcitrant organic matter in vegetable waste residues to an interesting variety of lignosulphonates.
15120980	This study adopted a multiple case study design to develop our understanding of the experiences and adjustments made by women with Parkinson Disease in relation to womanhood. Nineteen women participated in this investigation telling their stories through a combination of individual interviews, group interviews, reflective diaries, reflective tapes and creative writing. Data were analysed using the framework of Intrapersonal, Interpersonal, Extrapersonal and Metapersonal health proposed by Boddy and Rice (Perspectives on Health and Illness, Dunsmore Press, Palmerston North, 1992). Women reported that major changes were required in their lives in each of these aspects of health. In particular women reported labile emotions, changing body images, changing lifestyles, changing relationships with partner, family and friends, increasing dependence, decreasing role fulfillment and the need for support versus increasing isolation. The findings are of particular relevance to nurses and other health professionals involved with women with Parkinson's Disease as well as social services and voluntary agencies.
15122017	Transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) plants were engineered to express a N-(hydroxycinnamoyl)transferase from pepper (Capsicum annuum), which has been shown to have hydroxycinnamoyl-CoA:tyramine N-(hydroxycinnamoyl)transferase activity, a key enzyme in the synthesis of hydroxycinnamic acid amides, under the control of constitutive maize (Zea mays) ubiquitin promoter. The transgenic rice plants require foliar application of amines to support synthesis of hydroxycinnamic acid amides, suggestive of limiting amine substrates in rice shoots. In addition, when T2 homozygous transgenic rice plants were grown in the presence of amines or phenolic acids, two novel compounds were exclusively identified in the leaves of the transgenic plants. These compounds eluted earlier than p-coumaroyltyramine and feruloyltyramine during HPLC chromatography and were identified as p-coumaroylserotonin and feruloylserotonin by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and other methods. To test whether the unpredicted production of serotonin derivatives is associated with the pepper N-(hydroxycinnamoyl)transferase, the substrate specificity of the pepper enzyme was analyzed again. Purified recombinant pepper N-(hydroxycinnamoyl)transferase exhibited a serotonin N-hydroxycinnamoyltransferase (SHT) activity, synthesized p-coumaroylserotonin and feruloylserotonin in vitro, and demonstrated a low K(m) for serotonin. SHT activity was inhibited by 10 to 50 mm tyramine. In addition, SHT activity was predominantly found in the root tissues of wild-type rice in parallel with the synthesis of serotonin derivatives, suggesting that serotonin derivatives are synthesized in the root of rice. This is the first report of SHT activity and the first demonstration, to our knowledge, that serotonin derivatives can be overproduced in vivo in transgenic rice plants that express serotonin N-(hydroxycinnamoyl)transferase.
15122023	Using high quality sequence reads extracted from our whole genome shotgun repository, we assembled two chloroplast genome sequences from two rice (Oryza sativa) varieties, one from 93-11 (a typical indica variety) and the other from PA64S (an indica-like variety with maternal origin of japonica), which are both parental varieties of the super-hybrid rice, LYP9. Based on the patterns of high sequence coverage, we partitioned chloroplast sequence variations into two classes, intravarietal and intersubspecific polymorphisms. Intravarietal polymorphisms refer to variations within 93-11 or PA64S. Intersubspecific polymorphisms were identified by comparing the major genotypes of the two subspecies represented by 93-11 and PA64S, respectively. Some of the minor genotypes occurring as intravarietal polymorphisms in one variety existed as major genotypes in the other subspecific variety, thus giving rise to intersubspecific polymorphisms. In our study, we found that the intersubspecific variations of 93-11 (indica) and PA64S (japonica) chloroplast genomes consisted of 72 single nucleotide polymorphisms and 27 insertions or deletions. The intersubspecific polymorphism rates between 93-11 and PA64S were 0.05% for single nucleotide polymorphisms and 0.02% for insertions or deletions, nearly 8 and 10 times lower than their respective nuclear genomes. Based on the total number of nucleotide substitutions between the two chloroplast genomes, we dated the divergence of indica and japonica chloroplast genomes as occurring approximately 86,000 to 200,000 years ago.
15122029	Drought is a major constraint to rice (Oryza sativa) yield and its stability in rainfed and poorly irrigated environments. Identifying genomic regions influencing the response of yield and its components to water deficits will aid in our understanding of the genetics of drought tolerance and development of more drought tolerant cultivars. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) for grain yield and its components and other agronomic traits were identified using a subset of 154 doubled haploid lines derived from a cross between two rice cultivars, CT9993-510 to 1-M and IR62266-42 to 6-2. Drought stress treatments were managed by use of a line source sprinkler irrigation system, which provided a linearly decreasing level of irrigation coinciding with the sensitive reproductive growth stages. The research was conducted at the Ubon Rice Research Center, Ubon, Thailand. A total of 77 QTL were identified for grain yield and its components under varying levels of water stress. Out of the total of 77 QTL, the number of QTL per trait were: 7-grain yield (GY); 8-biological yield (BY); 6-harvest index (HI); 5-d to flowering after initiation of irrigation gradient (DFAIG); 10-total spikelet number (TSN); 7-percent spikelet sterility (PSS); 23-panicle number (PN); and 11-plant height (PH). The phenotypic variation explained by individual QTL ranged from 7.5% to 55.7%. Under well-watered conditions, we observed a high genetic association for BY, HI, DFAIG, PSS, TSN, PH, and GY. However, only BY and HI were found to be significantly associated with GY under drought treatments. QTL flanked by markers RG104 to RM231, EMP2_2 to RM127, and G2132 to RZ598 on chromosomes 3, 4, and 8 were associated with GY, HI, DFAIG, BY, PSS, and PN under drought treatments. The aggregate effects of these QTL on chromosomes 3, 4, and 8 resulted in higher grain yield. These QTL will be useful for rainfed rice improvement, and will also contribute to our understanding of the genetic control of GY under drought conditions at the sensitive reproductive stage. Close linkage or pleiotropy may be responsible for the coincidence of QTL detected in this experiment. Digenic interactions between QTL main effects for GY, BY, HI, and PSS were observed under irrigation treatments. Most (but not all) DH lines have the same response in measure of productivity when the intensity of water deficit was increased, but no QTL by irrigation treatment interaction was detected. The identification of genomic regions associated with GY and its components under drought stress will be useful for marker-based approaches to improve GY and its stability for farmers in drought-prone rice environments.
15124754	Aflatoxins, particularly aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) have been recognized as one of the most potent chemical carcinogen. In Egypt, HCV is prevalent. The progressive nature of HCV-related liver diseases was found to be influenced by other factors. In this paper, the role of aflatoxin contamination in the onset of liver cancer in HCV-infected patients was studied. The quantitative identification of the possible aflatoxins contamination in six urban and eleven rural areas using high performance liquid chromatography technique, revealed that corn, wheat, pea nut, lupine "termis", white rice, cowpea "lobiya", fava bean and brown rice showed the prevalence of AFB1 to be 64.7%, 53%, 53%, 47%, 47%, 41%, 29.4% & 29.4% respectively. A positive correlation was found between aflatoxin and positive HCV-PCR together with liver disease progression to G3S3, the indicative of hepatocellular carcinoma. Such correlation was not fully understood, but the oncogene amplification caused by HCV-infection may be aggravated by the consumption of aflatoxin contaminated raw food materials or their products.
15127092	To examine the correlation between dietary glycemic index (GI) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors among subjects who consume white rice as a staple food. A cross-sectional study was conducted to explore the associations between dietary GI, dietary glycemic load (GL) and dietary intakes, and CVD risk factors. Dietary GI and GL were calculated from a 3-day (including two consecutive weekdays and one holiday) dietary records. A weight-reduction program at a municipal health center in Tokyo, Japan. A total of 32 women aged 52.5+/-7.2 y participated in the weight-reduction program. The GI food list made for the current study calculated for 91% of carbohydrate intakes measured. The mean dietary GI was 64+/-6, and the mean dietary GL was 150+/-37. Individuals in the highest tertile of GI consumed more carbohydrate, mostly from white rice (P<0.001), and less fat (P<0.01). Individuals in all three groups by tertile of GL showed similar tendencies. In the lowest GI tertile, the highest concentration of HDL-cholesterol and lowest concentration of triacylglycerol and immunoreactive insulin were observed (P<0.01). In the lowest GL tertile, the highest concentration of HDL-cholesterol and the lowest concentration of triacylglycerol were observed (P<0.05). Calculated dietary GI and GL were positively associated with CVD risk factors among the Japanese women who consumed white rice as a staple food.
15127246	Tenosynovitis caused by atypical mycobacterial infections may produce rice bodies within affected tendon sheaths. We report a case of recurrent M. marinum infection involving the flexor tendons within the carpal tunnel in which the rice bodies were mistaken for synovial chondromatosis on MR images.
15128180	The quantities of two forms of crystalline silica, tridymite and cristobalite, in heated rice husk ash (RHA) samples were determined by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and chemical methods. Two RHA samples, containing 93% SiO2 and 2-3% K2O, were prepared from charcoaled rice husk products and heated to above 900 degrees C. The crystalline silica made up over 60-80% of the total silica in the heated RHA samples based on the XRD analysis. The crystalline phases in the two samples were somewhat different: The sample heated in the temperature range of 900 to 1,200 degrees C contained 52-62% cristobalite and 10-17% tridymite, but the other sample heated at a comparable temperature, above 1,100 degrees C, contained 46-66% tridymite and 37-16% cristobalite. Based on a correlation of lower tridymite crystallization temperature with higher potassium content, it was concluded that higher potassium levels were responsible for this difference. The pyrophosphoric acid analysis did not give exact results in the evaluation of total crystalline silica content in these RHA samples. As the combustion of rice husk was considered to cover the demands for energy and silica resource in Asian countries, cristobalite and tridymite crystallized in RHA by burning of rice husk should be assessed precisely by XRD analysis and the airborne dust in relevant workplace be controlled.
15128572	We report here the existence of anaerobic nitrogen-fixing consortia (ANFICOs) consisting of N(2)-fixing clostridia and diverse nondiazotrophic bacteria in nonleguminous plants; we found these ANFICOs while attempting to overcome a problem with culturing nitrogen-fixing microbes from various gramineous plants. A major feature of ANFICOs is that N(2) fixation by the anaerobic clostridia is supported by the elimination of oxygen by the accompanying bacteria in the culture. In a few ANFICOs, nondiazotrophic bacteria specifically induced nitrogen fixation of the clostridia in culture. ANFICOs are widespread in wild rice species and pioneer plants, which are able to grow in unfavorable locations. These results indicate that clostridia are naturally occurring endophytes in gramineous plants and that clostridial N(2) fixation arises in association with nondiazotrophic endophytes.
15133101	The phenotypic adaptation of membrane lipids in seven strains of the food-poisoning bacterium Bacillus cereus, isolated from Bangladeshi rice, is reported in relation to their ability to grow under conditions of low water activity (a(w)), reduced temperature and the presence of soluble rice starch. The strains have different membrane phospholipid head-group and fatty acyl compositions, and they display individual differences in their responses to both low a(w) and reduced temperature. The extent of the increase in anionic membrane lipids in response to low a(w) varies from strain to strain, is solute specific and in one strain does not occur. Growth is stimulated by the presence of soluble rice starch and results in a large rise in the proportion of diphosphatidylglycerol (DPG) at the expense of phosphatidylglycerol (PG), without any change in the proportion of total anionic phospholipids. Growth at 15 degrees C compared with 37 degrees C increases the proportions of DPG and phosphatidylethanolamine at the expense of PG. At the lower temperature there are changes in phospholipid fatty acyl composition characteristic of those expected to maintain membrane fluidity, including increases in the amount of total branched fatty acids and the anteiso-/iso-branched ratio, and a decrease in the equivalent chain-length, but there are strain differences in how those changes were achieved. In contrast to some other bacilli, there are persistent large increases in the proportions of unsaturated fatty acyl chains in phospholipids during growth at 15 degrees C.
15133717	The large size of the Triticum aestivum genome makes it unlikely that a complete genome sequence for wheat will be available in the near future. Exploiting the conserved genome organization between wheat and rice and existing genomic resources, we have constructed in silico physical mapping software for wheat, assigning a gross physical location(s) into chromosome bins to 22,626 representative wheat gene sequences. To validate the predictions from the software we compared the predicted locations of ten ESTs to their positions experimentally determined by SNP marker analysis. Six of the sequences were correctly positioned on the map including four that demonstrated a high level of colinearity with their orthologous rice genomic region. This tool will facilitate the development of molecular markers for regions of interest and the creation of map-based cloning strategies in areas demonstrating high levels of sequence conservation and organization between wheat and rice.
15133895	The cold tolerance of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings could be markedly improved by mild oxidative pretreatment (10 mumol/L methyl viologen (MV). The enhancement of chilling resistance induced by MV pretreatment could be inhibited by Ca(2+)-chelate ethyleneglycol-bis-(beta-aminoethylether) N,N-tetraacetic acid (EGTA, 10 mmol/L) and the calmodulin inhibitor chlorpromazine (CPZ, 0.5 mmol/L). The Ca(2+)-ATPase activity of root plasmolemma and tonoplast membrane as well as the Fe(CN)6(3-) reduction of plasmolemma were also enhanced by MV pretreatment. However, the above MV pretreatment effect could be inhibited by EGTA and CPZ, respectively. In vitro, Ca(2+)-ATPase activities in the two types of membrane vesicles were reduced by reactive oxygen species (H2O2, O2-., .OH). Results indicated that the enhancement of chilling resistance in rice seedlings with MV pretreatment was likely related to the effective activation of Ca(2+)-ATPase induced by calcium messenger of CaM, and the improved cold tolerance of the activities might be associated with the augmentation of cellular membrane protective ability caused by the MV pretreatment.
15133896	The cellular ultrastructural morphology, grain filling ratio and activity of related enzymes during denucleation development stage in starchy endosperm cell of an Indica rice variety Zhongxian 8836 were observed and analyzed. The endosperm cellularization was completed at about the 3rd day after flowering (DAF). At 5 DAF a few endosperm cells initiated denucleation development. At 13 DAF almost all the starchy endosperm cells completed their denucleation. The nuclear degradation is the first stage of programmed cell death (PCD) in starchy endosperm. It occurred unsynchronously among different starchy endosperm cells. The nuclear degradation of starchy endosperm cell during denucleation development stage showed not only morphological features commonly observed in animal and plant PCD, but also some unique characteristics. Mitochondria degeneration was observed along with nuclear degradation, indicating there were interrelations between the two processes. Enzymes related to PCD, such as super-oxide dismutases (SOD) and catalase (CAT), as well as enzymes related to starch synthesis, such as ADP-glucose pyriphosphorylase (AGP), soluble starch synthase (SSS) and starch branching enzyme or Q-enzyme, showed very high activity during the denucleation development stage. Maximum grain filling rate and grain weight increase were also achieved in the denucleation developing stage of most starch endosperm cells. The denucleated cell remained alive in the developing endosperm, keeping its normal metabolisms, the synthesis and accumulation of starch and storage proteins. However, enzyme activities and grain filling rate were apparently dropped to a lower level after denucleation. The starchy endosperm cell finally completed its PCD process when it was completely filled with reserves. Evan's blue staining indicated that cell death occurred unsynchronously among the starchy endosperm cells with initiation points randomly distributed in the endosperm tissue.
15137451	One of the problems in a reverse osmosis process for livestock wastewater treatment is disposal of the by-product concentrate. The agricultural recycling of the concentrate is more cost saving than a further treatment. Application of the concentrate reduces the chemical fertilizer amendment. The agricultural recycling of the concentrate from the Kimhae livestock wastewater treatment plant, processed with the VSEP RO and bio-ceramic SBR, was studied. The concentrate includes non-biodegradable humic ubstance and residual inorganic ions (NH4+, NO3-, PO4(3-), K+, etc.). The contents of N, P and K were 1,650, 382 and 2,059 mg L(-1), respectively. The total acidity of humic acids extracted from the concentrate was 5.17 cmol(+) g(-1), composed of 2.38 cmol(+) g(-1) of carboxylic group and 2.79 cmol(+) g(-1) of phenolic hydroxyl group. Coliforms and E. coli were not detected in the concentrate. The yield of rice plant with the concentrate applied to it resulted in similar production to that with chemical fertilizer applied. The water extractable nitrate content of the concentrate-applied land did not exceed that of chemical fertilizer applied, at soil depths of 30 and 60 cm. The percolated amount of nitrate into the water table in arable land with the concentrate applied showed a similar level to that treated with the chemical fertilizer.
15137495	Five hundred fifty-six samples representing 24 species of small mammals (two species of marsupials and 22 rodents) were collected in Panama between February 2000 and July 2002. The samples were examined for antibodies to hantaviruses by means of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay or immunoblot assays. The serologic results indicated that several rodent species might act as hantaviral reservoirs in Panama: Costa Rican pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys fulvescens costaricensis), four positive of 72 tested (5.6%); Cherrie's cane rat (Zygodontomys brevicauda cherriei), five of 108 (4.6%); Mexican deer mouse (Peromyscus mexicanus), one of 22 (5%); Mexican harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys mexicanus), one of seven (14%); Chiriquí harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys creper), one of two (50%); and Sumichrast's harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys sumichrasti), three of four (75%). Hantavirus infection in Peromyscus mexicanus and the three species of Reithrodontomys was caused by Rio Segundo hantavirus, a species of virus not previously reported from Panama. At least three hantaviruses, therefore, are known to infect populations of wild rodents in the country. However, given the total number of animals tested, the role of these rodent species in the epidemiology and epizootiology of hantavirus infections remains unclear.
15137651	The bioavailability of bound residue (BR) derived from 14C-labeled chlorsulfuron in soil and effect of the main components of the BR on growth of rape (brassica napus) and rice (Oryza sativa L.) were investigated. The results showed that the BR with the concentration of 0.28 and 0.56 nmol/g air-dried soil, which was calculated by special radioactivity of 14C-labeled chlorsulfuron parent compound, resulted in significant depression effect on growth of rape seedling. It was assured that the main components (2-amino-4-methoxyl-6-methyl-1,3,5-triazine, 2-amino-4-hydroxyl-6-methyl-1,3,5-triazine, and 2-chloro-benzenesul-fonamide) of the BR did not inhibit the growth of rape and rice. LC-MS analysis demonstrated that the parent compound previously bound to the soil matrix could be again released and transformed into methanol-extractable residue during the course of rape growth. It was concluded that the molecular leading to the phytotoxicity to rape and rice in the BR is still the parent compound.
15137826	3-Isopropyl-5-acetoxycyclohexene-2-one-1 (1), momilactone B (2), and 5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone (3) were isolated and identified from an allelopathic rice accession PI312777. These three compounds at low concentrations could inhibit the growth of weeds Echinochloa crusgalli and Cyperus difformis associated with rice, especially mixtures of the compounds had stronger inhibitory activity than did individual compounds. Studies with hydroponic culture, continuous root exudates trapping system (CRETS), and direct resin adsorption methods showed that a total of 7.6 n moles 1, 2, and 3 were exuded from living roots of each seedling into the environment at 10 days after seedlings were transplanted. Furthermore, 1, 2, and 3 were found in the soil growing PI312777 seedlings at day 15 after seedlings emergence and reached a total of 39.5 microg/g soil at day 30. The results indicated that PI 312777 seedlings could release sufficient quantities of 1, 2, and 3 into the environment to act as allelochemicals inhibiting the growth of associated weeds. Investigations on the distribution of 1, 2, and 3 in PI 312777 plant, and its root exudates showed that the levels of 1, 2, and 3 were significantly higher in the shoots and root exudates than in the roots, and only trace 1 was observed in the roots. The results suggest that the roots of rice seedlings are not major site of synthesis or accumulation 1, 2, and 3, but a pathway for their release into the environment. The levels of 1, 2, and 3 in the root exudates were over 2-folds higher under direct resin adsorption than under hydroponic culture and CRETS, and hence, it is the preferred method to collect and identify active allelochemicals in rice exudates in future studies on rice allelopathy.
15138696	Exposure of cold-hardy Rubidoux trifoliate orange [Poncirus trifoliata (L) Raf.] plants to temperatures from 28 degrees C to -5 degrees C enabled us to isolate and characterize a novel citrus low-temperature gene (CLT) with two transcripts, called CLTa and CLTb, from leaves and stems. CLTa was produced when plants were subjected to low temperatures (starting at 10 degrees C), while CLTb was constitutively expressed. Both CLTa and CLTb have the same open reading frame (ORF) of 165 nucleotides and encode a small (54 deduced amino acid) protein. However, CLTa has an additional 98 nucleotides in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) that are absent in CLTb. Expression analysis using relative quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated that CLTa is expressed exclusively at low temperatures, while CLTb is expressed constitutively (expression verified from 33 degrees C to -5 degrees C). A GenBank database search identified 61 nucleotides inside of the ORF that are highly similar to low-temperature-responsive genes from Arabidopsis thaliana and Solanum tuberosum. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed similarity with low-temperature-responsive proteins from A. thaliana, Oryza sativa, and S. tuberosum of 77%, 81%, and 73.9%, respectively. A genomic clone was isolated, and the genome organization revealed the presence of three exons and two introns, the second of which is in the 3' UTR and participates in alternative 3' splice site selection. One of the 3' splice sites of the second intron was located immediately before the additional 98-bp non-coding fragment of CLTa, and the second at the very end of the 98-bp fragment. Additionally, the presence of the tetranucleotides TCTT and TTCT, which are involved in the regulation of transcript processing in animals and possibly also active in peach, was found in this intron. Competition for splicing sites on the pre-mRNA in the spliceosome, which is induced by low temperature, may be involved in the production of the two transcripts of the CLT gene.
15139188	Field experiments were carried out to study the population development characteristics of rice crop cultivated both on aerobic and waterlogged soil conditions. The results showed that the whole growth duration of rice growing on aerobic soil was one week longer than that on waterlogged soil. Shorter and narrower leaves and smaller LAI of rice population were found on aerobic soil than on waterlogged soil, which resulted in a decreased photosynthesis, smaller amount and lighter weight of rice grains on aerobic soil, compared with those on waterlogged soil. Among the aerobic treatments, more tillers, lower percentage of filled grains and shorter duration of grain forming were found on soils covered with plastic film than on soils covered with semi-decomposed straw or without mulching. The rice grain yield was decreased in the order of waterlogged soil > aerobic soil covered with plastic film > aerobic soil covered with semi-decomposed straw > aerobic soil without mulching.
15139189	Pot experiments were conducted to study the effect of short-term drought at four rice growth stages on leaf water potential, photosynthesis and dry matter partitioning in paddy rice. The leaf water potential of rice plant under water stress was lower than that of CK, and the difference increased after midday. The predawn leaf water potential of rice plant decreased significantly when soil water content or soil water potential went down a threshold value, resulted in an obvious decline in the single leaf net photosynthetic rate. In compared with the well-watered treatment, the net photosynthetic rate under severe water stress decreased by more than 50%. The partitioning indexes of leaf, root and spike decreased, while that of stem and sheath increased after short-term drought.
15139200	Studies on the efficacy of bio-rational pesticides and agricultural methods against the chief diseases, insect pests and weeds of rice showed that the efficacy of the mixtures of jingangmycin and bacillus-cereus, and jingangmycin and polyoxin against rice sheath blight were 75.16%-94.27% after sprayed once at the tiller and boot end stages of rice, respectively, and better than that of chemical fungicide triadimefon. The efficacy of kasugamycin and blasticidin was 50.54%-72.67% on rice leaf blast and 76.66%-87.42% on rice head blast, and equal to the chemical fungicide tricyclazole after sprayed once at the initial stage of rice leaf blast occurrence and the initial and end stages of earing, respectively. The efficacy of bacillus thuringiensis on Chilo suppressalis and Cnaphalocrocis medinalis was better than that of chemical insecticide bisultap, and the efficacy of saponin-nicotine and matrine was equal to that of chemical insecticide bisultap when the three biorational insecticides were sprayed at 1-2 instar larvae of pests. The efficacy of saponin-nicotine and matrine was above 70%, and lower than that of chemical insecticide imidacloprid 3-30 d after sprayed at 1-2 instar larvae of Nilaparvata lugens. The occurrence of weeds could be controlled, and the rice yield could be raised when the suitable non-thorough decomposed organism was applied or weeding was carried after the field had been ploughed twice before rice transplant. The rice yield could be raised by using biorational pesticides and agricultural methods against the chief diseases, insect pests and weeds of rice. The residue of pesticides in rice was lower in the bio-control area than in the chemical control area, according with the demands of health target of green food.
15139206	The distribution of various kinds of non-point sources phosphorus pollution in Xueyan Town, Wujin city, Taihu area was researched through field experiments and local investigation during rice growth season. The results showed that of all kinds of phosphorus pollution, about 56.2% (1313 kg P) was from farmland, 22.2% (518 kg P) was from town residents, 18.9% (442 kg P) was from village residents, and 2.7% (62 kg P) was from livestock. Besides the strict control of the phosphorus pollution from farmland, attention should also be paid on the control of domestic water pollution from towns and villages.
15139502	To evaluate the effects of green banana and pectin (nondigestible, dietary sources of colonic shortchain fatty acids [SCFA]) on intestinal permeability, 57 boys (5-12 months) with persistent diarrhea (> or = 14 days) were given a week's treatment with a rice-based diet containing either cooked green banana (n = 19), pectin (n = 17), or rice diet alone (n = 21). Intestinal permeability was assessed before and after treatment by giving a lactulose-mannitol (LM) drink and measuring urinary recovery after 5 hr. Treatment with banana significantly (P < 0.05) reduced lactulose recovery, increased mannitol recovery, and decreased the LM ratio, indicating improvement of permeability. Pectin produced similar results. Permeability changes were associated with a 50% reduction in stool weights which correlated strongly (green banana, r2 = 0.84, pectin, r2 = 0.86) with the LM ratio. Green banana-derived and SCFA-mediated stimulation of colonic as well as small bowel absorption is responsible for their antidiarrheal effects. The antidiarrheal effects of green banana and pectin are mediated by improvement of small intestinal permeability in addition to their known colonotrophic effects.
15141467	The sorption of Cu(II) and Cd(II) from synthetic solution by powdered activated carbon (PAC), biomass, rice husk (RH) and activated rice husk (ARH) were investigate under batch conditions. After activated by concentrated nitric acid for 15 hours at 60-65 degrees C, the adsorption capacity for RH was increased. The adsorbents arranged in the increasing order of adsorption capacities to the Langmuir Q degree parameter were biomass > PAC > ARH > RH. The addition of adsorbents in base mix solution had increased the specific oxygen uptake rate (SOUR) activated sludge microorganisms with and without the presence of metals. The increased of SOUR were due to the ability of PAC and RH in reducing the inhibitory effect of metals on microorganisms and provide a reaction site between activated sludge microorganisms and substrates.
15141959	In the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea, the Pmk1 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase is essential for appressorium formation and infectious growth. PMK1 is homologous to yeast Fus3 and Kss1 MAP kinases that are known to be regulated by the Ste20 PAK kinase for activating the pheromone response and filamentation pathways. In this study, we isolated and characterized two PAK genes, CHM1 and MST20, in M. grisea. Mutants disrupted in MST20 were reduced in aerial hyphae growth and conidiation, but normal in growth rate, appressorium formation, penetration, and plant infection. In chm1 deletion mutants, growth, conidiation, and appressorium formation were reduced significantly. Even though appressoria formed by chm1 mutants were defective in penetration, chm1 mutants were able to grow invasively on rice leaves and colonize through wounds. The chm1 mutants were altered in conidiogenesis and produced conidia with abnormal morphology. Hyphae of chm1 mutants had normal septation, but the length of hyphal compartments was reduced. On nutritionally poor oatmeal agar, chm1 mutants were unstable and produced sectors that differed from original chm1 mutants in growth rate, conidiation, or colony morphology. However, none of the monoconidial cultures derived from these spontaneous sectors were normal in appressorial penetration and fungal pathogenesis. These data suggest that MST20 is dispensable for plant infection in M. grisea, but CHM1 plays a critical role in appressorium formation and penetration. Both mst20 and chm1 deletion mutants were phenotypically different from the pmk1 mutant that is defective in appressorium formation and infectious hyphae growth. It is likely that MST20 and CHM1 individually play no critical role in activating the PMK1 MAP kinase pathway during appressorium formation and infectious hyphae growth. However, CHM1 appears to be essential for appressorial penetration and CHM1 and MST20 may have redundant functions in M. grisea.
15142343	There is continued interest in the assessment and potential use of antioxidants as neuroprotective agents in diseases associated with increased oxidative stress, such as Parkinson's disease. The neuroprotective effect of a natural antioxidant drink, EM-X (a ferment derivative of unpolished rice, papaya and seaweeds with effective microorganisms), was investigated using the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesion rat model of Parkinson's disease. The nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons were unilaterally lesioned with 6-OHDA (8 microg) in rats that were treated with a 10-times diluted EM-X drink (dilEM-X), standard EM-X drink (stdEM-X) or tap water for 4 days. Seven days post lesion, the integrity (no. of tyrosine hydroxylase positive cells (TH+ cells) in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc)) and functionality (dopamine and its metabolites DOPAC and HVA content in the striata) of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons were assessed. In the vehicle-treated rats, infusion of 8 microg of 6-OHDA significantly reduced the number of TH+ cells in the SNpc as well as the levels of dopamine, DOPAC and HVA in the striata on the lesion side. The loss of TH+ cells, dopamine and HVA, but not the DOPAC levels, was significantly attenuated by stdEM-X pretreatment, but not by the dilEM-X pretreatment. There were no significant changes in the TH+ cells, or in the monoamine levels with the EM-X pretreatment per se, except for a small but significant fall in the levels of dopamine with the stdEM-X. The evidence presented supports the potential neuroprotective effects of stdEM-X drink, although its effect on dopamine levels needs further investigation.
15144377	A late-flowering mutant was isolated from rice T-DNA-tagging lines. T-DNA had been integrated into the K-box region of Oryza sativa MADS50 (OsMADS50), which shares 50.6% amino acid identity with the Arabidopsis MADS-box gene SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO 1/AGAMOUS-LIKE 20 (SOC1/AGL20). While overexpression of OsMADS50 caused extremely early flowering at the callus stage, OsMADS50 RNAi plants exhibited phenotypes of late flowering and an increase in the number of elongated internodes. This confirmed that the phenotypes observed in the knockout (KO) plants are because of the mutation in OsMADS50. RT-PCR analyses of the OsMADS50 KO and ubiquitin (ubi):OsMADS50 plants showed that OsMADS50 is an upstream regulator of OsMADS1, OsMADS14, OsMADS15, OsMADS18, and Hd (Heading date)3a, but works either parallel with or downstream of Hd1 and O. sativa GIGANTEA (OsGI). These results suggest that OsMADS50 is an important flowering activator that controls various floral regulators in rice.
15144900	This study presents a kinetic analysis of the response to wounding in rice plants. In particular, jasmonic acid, salicylic acid, and lipoxygenase activity were measured in leaves of wounded rice plants during the early tillering phase. The results show that endogenous jasmonic acid transiently increases to a maximum 30 min after wounding (jasmonic acid burst) and lipoxygenase activity increases after the jasmonic acid burst, but not after the second smaller peak of endogenous jasmonic acid 23 h after wounding. In contrast, endogenous salicylic acid decreases during the jasmonic acid burst, such that the kinetic profiles of jasmonic acid and salicylic acid are inversely correlated during the early response to wounding. It is proposed here that the increase in endogenous jasmonic acid and the decrease in endogenous salicylic acid may contribute for establishing the efficient negative cross-talk between jasmonic acid and salicylic acid signaling pathways during the early response to wounding in rice.
15146628	The accumulation of dry matter, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and silicon in 30 rice genotypes and their relationships under field condition were studied. The results showed that dry matter accumulated at ripening stage linearly increased with increase of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and silicon accumulation with highly significant correlation coefficients at both early and late season. At the same time balance of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and silicon accumulation was beneficial for dry matter accumulation, which linearly increased with increase of nutrient balance index and decreased with increase of nutrient deviation index. The nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and silicon were accumulated at the rate of 3.76:1:4.55:7.10 at early season and 2.88:1:4.54:8.09 at late season. During growth period, dry matter accumulation was the highest at middle stage, then late stage and early stage. But nitrogen accumulation was the highest at early stage, then middle stage and late stage. The dry matter accumulated before heading was mainly distributed in stem and leaf sheath, with the highest ratio of stem and leaf sheath to total dry matter at heading stage. In contrast, nitrogen accumulated before heading was mainly distributed in leaf blade, and the ratio of nitrogen in leaf blade to total nitrogen was higher than that of dry matter at either growth stages. Dry matter, nitrogen, phosphorus accumulated at ripening stage were mainly distributed in panicle with rates of 58.01%, 66.42% and 70.06%, respectively. But potassium accumulated at ripening stage was mainly distributed in stem and leaf sheath with the rate of 62.08%. Silicon was largely distributed in stem and leaf sheath at early season with the rate of 43.11%, but distributed largely in panicle at late season with the rate of 46.99%.
15146642	In order to investigate the uptake of lead by rice plant and the distribution of lead in different parts of rice, pot experiment was conducted with 20 rice cultivars of different genotypes by adding lead to soil. The results showed that there existed significant differences among the cultivars in the lead uptake and distribution by rice plants, but the differences had no obvious relationship with rice genotypes. The lead concentrations decreased rapidly from roots to grains along rice plants, so the concentrations of lead were very low in grains compared with other parts of rice plants. The regression analysis showed that there were significant negative correlations between adjacent organs of rice plant, but positive correlations, mostly significant, between disconnected organs, for the lead concentrations in them. Lead concentration in the leaf of heading stage showed a significant positive correlation with that in the grain of ripening stage. Lead was not distributed uniformly in different parts of grain structure, and the lead accumulation in polished rice was only 32.88% of the total lead accumulation in grain.
15146654	Plant volatile is not only the key of the relationship among plant, herbivore and its natural enemy, but also the foundation for the theory and practice of pest manage. In this paper, the chemical characteristic of rice volatile and its function among herbivore and its natural enemy were reviewed. The application and development direction of rice volatile infochemicals were proposed. Two directions to study the rice volatile infochemicals, which could be used in pest control, were also discussed. One was the physiology and biochemistry of little molecule signals, which was the key of rice second metabolize, and the other was the base of sense, identify and learn of pest insect to rice volatile infochemicals.
15146971	Moisture equilibrium data (adsorption and desorption) of rice flour were determined using the static gravimetric method of saturated salt solutions at three storage temperatures: 10, 20 and 30 degrees C. The range of water activities for each temperature was from 0.11 to 0.85. Equilibrium moisture content decreased with increase in storage temperature at any given water activity. The experimental data were fitted to four mathematical models (modified Oswin, modified Halsey, modified Chung-Pfost and modified Henderson). The monolayer moisture content was estimated from sorption data using the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) equation. The isosteric heats of sorption were evaluated using Clausius-Clapeyron equation.
15148760	We examined the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid-rich germinated brown rice (germinated brown rice) on principal indexes of life-style related diseases in 67 volunteers aged 71 +/- 8. They were divided into two groups; germinated brown rice group, which had an equal amount of the germinated brown rice to polished rice for 11 to 13 months, and control group, which had polished rice alone for the same period. Differences of indexes before and after the examination between the two groups were compared. Significant increases in body fat ratio, hemoglobin A1c and mean red cell volume and a significant decrease in mean red cell hemoglobin concentration were observed in the germinated brown rice group. However, there was no difference of changes in body mass index, blood pressure, serum lipid, hepatic and renal functions, bone metabolic markers, bone density, depression score, red blood cell counts, hemoglobin, hematocrit, and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance between the two groups. These findings suggested that germinated brown rice might not improve glucose metabolism.
15149127	The objective of this work was to evaluate the reliability of one quick tolerance test that would enable us, in only six days, to quantify tolerance levels of one biotype to one or more herbicides. For this purpose, we evaluated tolerance levels to cyhalofop-butyl of five Echinochloa spp. biotypes: muricata, crus-galli, crus-pavonis, oryzicola and utilis, with unknown records of herbicide treatment. Moreover, two biotypes of Echinochloa phyllopogon were tested, one of them resistant (R) to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl and the other one susceptible (S). The Oryza sativa Puntal var. and Oryza sativa var. (wild rice) were also checked in order to demonstrate cyhalofop-butyl selectivity profiles. The assays were conducted with petri-dishes where, over the following increasing doses, fifty seeds per biotype and dose, were placed in each one: 0, 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 48 and 60 ppm of cyhalofop-butyl and codacide oil adjuvant. Six days later, the following parameters were evaluated: plumule length, root length, germination (%) and fresh weight reduction (%). E. muricata germination was reduced by 50% with a 6 ppm dose. A non linear relation dose-germination was observed in the rest of the biotypes. The plumule length permitted the ranking of the biotypes into three groups: (1) resistant (E. phyllopogon R) or very tolerant (Oryza sativa Puntal var. and wild rice), those with a reduction of less than 30%, (2) tolerant, between 30 and 60% (E. oryzicola), and (3) susceptible, with a reduction of over 80% (E. muricata, E. crus-galli, E. crus-pavonis, E. utilis and E. phyllopogon S). Only Oryzo sativa and E. phyllopogon R had a minimal reduction of fresh weight (less than 15%). The assays were repeated with whole plants and we checked the accuracy of this test that indicated the resistance level of one biotype in a quick, reliable and economic way.
15149134	A consequence of modern agriculture and its dependence on herbicides, is the appearance of resistant weed populations. The first case of resistance on the Iberian Peninsula was found in Portugal and it was in a population of Alisma plantago-aquatica, resistant to bensulfuronmethyl, an ALS-inhibitor. For the same herbicide, control problems with Cyperus difformis were found in some Spanish rice fields. In the same rice field area, tolerance was observed in some Echinochloa spp. when auxinic herbicides (quinclorac) were used and some resistant Echinochloa spp. populations were found due to the long use of PS II inhibitors herbicides (propanil). The association of active ingredients, rotation of crops and adoption of mechanical control methods are the main strategies to combat resistance to herbicides.
15149136	Rice (Oryza sativa var.), is one of the most important crops worldwide, and is cultivated in the five continents since it adapts itself to all climatic conditions. The most important weeds that reduce the world rice yield are Echinochloa spp., annual gramineae, which, because of the selection pressure imposed on them, have developed resistance to a large series of herbicides. Two Echinochloa phyllopogon biotypes were studied, one of them resistant to molinate, thiobencarb and fenoxaprop-ethyl and the other one susceptible to these herbicides, both originating from California rice fields. In these biotypes, the effects of other herbicides were evaluated, some of them with the same mode of action [profoxydim (Aura) and cyhalofopbutyl (Clincher), both ACCase inhibitors] and others with different modes of action [quinclorac (Facet) belonging to auxinic herbicide families; bispyribac-Na (Nominee) and azimsulfuron (Gulliver), both ALS inhibitors]. The only herbicide that effectively controlled the R biotype was profoxydim (95% control). Cyhalofop-butyl, quinclorac and bispyribac-Na did not control the R biotype by more than 40%. There is no doubt that azimsulfuron hardly had any effect (14%). On the other hand, in the S biotype, three herbicides were quite effective: profoxydim (93%), quinclorac (93%), and cyhalofop-butyl (90%). Bispyribac-Na and azimsulfuron hardly had any effect on the S biotype, with no significant differences in either herbicide (20%).
15149139	There is some disagreement about the species that constitute Echinochloa. Correct identification is agronomically and economically important because Echinochloa spp. are aggressive invaders and difficult to control. The identification of Echinochloa spp. is complicated because of the morphological diversity shown by the genus. This work was initiated because of the differential response to cyhalofop-butyl treatment shown by some populations of Echinochloa spp. Four biotypes were selected for botanical identification: two biotypes collected in the Seville area, one of them susceptible to cyhalofop-butyl (ED50 = 64 g a.i.ha(-1)) and the other one tolerant (ED50 = 560 g a.i.ha(-1)), one tolerant biotype collected in the Badajoz area (ED50 = 420 g a.i.ha(-1)) and one tolerant biotype collected in the Valencia area (ED50 = 860 g a.i.ha(-1)). Botanical identification was carried out following Carretero's Keys (1981) on plants grown at the site of origin. The main distinguishable character of the species was the length of the upper glume. The following results were obtained: the susceptible biotype collected in the Seville area and the tolerant biotype collected in the Valencia area were characterized as Echinochloa oryzoides, the tolerant biotype collected in Badajoz was characterized as E. oryzicola and the tolerant biotype collected in Seville area as E. hispidula.
15149153	The effects of the ethyl acetate extract of "Kurosu" (EK), Japanese traditional vinegar from unpolished rice, on the proliferation of a variety of human cancer cell lines were investigated by using the alamar blue assay. Cancer cell lines included colon adenocarcinoma (Caco-2), lung carcinoma (A549), breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7), bladder carcinoma (5637), and prostate carcinoma (LNCaP) cells. EK inhibited the proliferation of all tested cell lines in a dose-dependent manner, with inhibition mostly pronounced in Caco-2 cells (up to 62% inhibition at a dose level of 0.025%). Flow cytometry of EK-treated Caco-2 cells showed a decrease in cell number in the G2/M phase and an increase in the sub-G1 phase (apoptotic). In addition, DNA fragmentation was detected in Caco-2 cells cultured with EK by immunostaining. RT-PCR analysis revealed p21 mRNA expression was induced in EK-treated Caco-2 cells. Moreover, PARP cleavage was promoted in EK-treated Caco-2 cells. These results suggest that EK causes G0/G1 arrest through p21 induction and, thus, is a potential apoptosis inducer in Caco-2 cells.
15150342	We investigated expression patterns of DNA repair genes such as the CPD photolyase, UV-DDB1, CSB, PCNA, RPA32 and FEN-1 genes by northern hybridization analysis and in situ hybridization using a higher plant, rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). We found that all the genes tested were expressed in tissues rich in proliferating cells, but only CPD photolyase was expressed in non-proliferating tissue such as the mature leaves and elongation zone of root. The removal of DNA damage, cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers and (6-4) photoproducts, in both mature leaves and the root apical meristem (RAM) was observed after UV irradiation under light. In the dark, DNA damage in mature leaves was not repaired efficiently, but that in the RAM was removed rapidly. Using a rice 22K custom oligo DNA microarray, we compared global gene expression patterns in the shoot apical meristem (SAM) and mature leaves. Most of the excision repair genes were more strongly expressed in SAM. These results suggested that photoreactivation is the major DNA repair pathway for the major UV-induced damage in non-proliferating cells, while both photoreactivation and excision repair are active in proliferating cells.
15151303	Sheath rot of rice occurs in most rice-growing regions of the world. It usually causes yield losses from 20 to 85%. Sheath rot was reported from Iran in 1993. Year after year, the number of diseased plants increased in the Northern Iran. In summer of 2001, these symptoms were observed in most fields: lesions occur on the upper leaf sheaths, especially the flag leaf sheath. As the disease progresses, lesions enlarge and coalesce and may cover most of the leaf sheath. Panicle may fail to completely or at all. Brown or partially brown not filled or partially filled grain is also associated with infection of the panicle. A whitish powdery growth may be found inside affected sheaths. Infected plants were collected and trasferred to laboratory. Small pieces of diseased tissues were washed under tap water for one hour. Then tissues were placed on WA and incubated at 25 degrees C. These isolates were purified and identified as: Sarocladium oryzae, Fusarium udum, F. semitectum, F. avenaceum, F. flocciferum, F. graminearum, Bipolaris oryzae, Alternaria padwickii, Rhizoctonia solani, Paecilomyces sp., Nigrospora sp. and Trichoderma sp. This is the first report of F. udum in Iran. Also this is the first report that rice is the host for F. semitectum, F. avenaceum and F. flocciferum in Iran. Pathogenicity tests were conducted in glass house. Following species were found to be associated with sheath rot of rice: S. oryzae, F. graminearum, F. udum, F. avenaceum, B. oryzae, A. padwickii. This is the first report in the world that F. udum and A. padwickii are the causal agents of the sheath rot on rice plants.
15151313	In this study the palatability tests of certain food items as attractants in the poisoned-baits for the albino mouse Mus musculus var. albus showed that the food items of treacle, maize oil, dry or wet sugar and milk powder act as more attractive pleasant materials that encourage the mice to consume more of those baits containing such items. The most palatable combination of tested food items to the mouse Mus musculus was that consisting of crushed maize + treacle + maize oil + milk powder. The least amount of food consumed by the mice was that of rice and or rice + treacle + oil + milk powder. The use of wheat grain alone was much better than crushed maize alone or and combined with wet or dry sugar. The tested anticoagulant rodenticides were greatly effective against the albino mouse Mus musculus var. albus, since they could cause a final mortality of hundred percent in a mean time ranging merely between 7 & 9 days. Chlorophacinone was more potent and effective than coumachlor; at its lowered concentrations of 25 and 44.5 ppm was more acceptable than coumachlor. The consumed amounts of zinc phosphide baits were comparatively utmost lower than those of anticoagulants poisoned baits. Feeding the pregnant females on prepared baits consisting of crushed maize, treacle, milk powder, maize oil and lower concentration of each of coumachlor, chlorophacinone and zink phosphide, to a more or less extent, reduced females weight according to the tested lower concentration, versus the weight of pregnant females in control treatment which was increased by 14.4%. In comparison to both the tested anticoagulant rodenticides, the measured reduction of females weight caused by zinc phosphide (6 ppm) was, to a more extent, higher as the mean weight gradually decreased from 27.4 up to 16.3 g. Chlorophacinone at its minimized concentrations was least effective in reducing the number and mean weight of developing fetuses. However, coumachlor at its tested concentration of 2 ppm caused abortion after the first and the second weeks of pregnancy reached to 100%. Zinc phosphide at both tested concentrations of 0.6 and 6 ppm was ineffective on the abortion and resorption of fetuses; the fed females on baits containing 0.6 and/or 6.0 ppm zinc phosphide ate their youngsters at the 2nd and 4th day after birth, respectively. The histopathological changes of liver, kidney, lung and intestine due to feeding of the Mouse Mus musculus var. albus on the poisoned baits of tested different rodenticides were recorded and photographed.
15151547	The aim of the present study was to elucidate both environmental and behavioral factors that influence body mass index (BMI, kg/m2) among Japanese children from ages 3-6. In 1992 (at age 3) and 1995 (at age 6), 8170 6-year-old children (4176 boys and 3994 girls) were surveyed using a questionnaire on both body build (height and weight) and lifestyle. The correlation between BMI for 3-year-olds and for 6-year-olds were analyzed. From the temporal changes of body build between age 3 and 6 years, we categorized children into four groups: group 1, normal at both age 3 years and 6 years (normal/normal); group 2, overweight at age 3 years and normal at age 6 years (overweight/normal); group 3, normal at age 3 years and overweight at age 6 years (normal/overweight); and group 4, overweight at both age 3 years and 6 years (overweight/overweight). The authors compared the four groups with each other according to sex, concerning frequencies of children who matched the categories of environmental and behavioral factors. Each factor was tested using the chi2 test. Overweight children were defined as those whose BMI value was age-sex specific in the 90th percentile or more. A significant correlation was found between body builds for children aged 3 and 6 years in both genders (boys, r = 0.559, P < 0.01; girls, r = 0.584, P < 0.01). Significant factors associated with overweight children were diet (eating rice, green tea, eggs, meat, but less breads and juice), rapid eating, short sleep duration, early bedtime, long periods of television viewing, avoidance of physical activity, and frequent bowel movement. Temporal changes in BMI from age 3 years to 6 years are significantly associated with both environmental and behavioral factors at age 6 years. The results of this study may be useful for health promotion programs designed to prevent obesity during the early stages of childhood.
15153271	Revised estimates of protein and amino acid requirements are under discussion by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)/World Health Organizaion (WHO), and have been proposed in a recent report on Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs) from the USA. The nature and magnitude of these requirements are not entirely resolved, and no consideration has been given to the potential influence of metabolic adaptation on dietary requirements. We have examined the implications of these new values, and of the conceptual metabolic framework in which they are used, for defining the nutritional adequacy of protein intakes in developed and developing countries. We have expressed proposed values for protein requirements in relation to energy requirements, predicted for physical activity levels of 1.5, 1.75 and 2.0 times basal metabolic rate, in order to generate reference ratios for protein energy/total energy (reference P/E ratio) as a function of age, body weight, gender and physical activity level. Proposed values for amino acid requirements have been used to adjust the available digestible P/E ratio of foods and diets for protein quality. Focusing on the diets of UK omnivores and vegetarians and on diets in India, the risk of protein deficiency is evaluated from a comparison of P/E ratios of metabolic requirements with protein-quality-adjusted P/E ratios of intakes. A qualitative and conservative estimate of risk of deficiency is made by comparing the adjusted P/E ratio of the intake with a reference P/E ratio calculated for age, body weight, gender and physical activity according to FAO/WHO/United Nations University. A semi-quantitative estimate of risk of deficiency has also been made by the cut point approach, calculated as the proportion of the intake distribution below the mean P/E ratio of the requirement. Values for the quality-adjusted P/E ratio of the diet range from 0.126 for the UK omnivore diet to 0.054 for a rice-based diet of adults in West Bengal, which is lysine-limited, falling to 0.050 for 1-year-old children. The reference P/E ratio for men and women increases with age, is higher for females than males, is higher for small compared with large adults at any age and decreases with physical activity. Thus if a particular diet is potentially limiting in protein, protein deficiency is most likely in large, elderly sedentary women followed by the adolescent female and least likely in moderately active young children, the opposite of what has usually been assumed. Within the currently accepted framework, the diets do not meet the protein needs of the entire population of the UK, have a significant risk of deficiency throughout India for all except extremely active small adults, and are grossly inadequate for all population groups, apart from physically active young children in West Bengal, regardless of body weight or level of food intake. The lysine limitation of the cereal-based Indian diets is dependent on the choice of lysine requirement values from the published range. We consider that the value selected is too high, because of uncertainties and inconsistencies in the approaches used. A more appropriate choice from the lower end of the range would remove the lysine limitation of cereal-based diets, and reduce some of the perceived risk of deficiency. However, diets remain limited by the amount of digestible protein for many population groups, especially in West Bengal. In the context of risk management, one option would be to accept the current values and the conceptual metabolic framework within which they have been derived. This would have major implications for the supplies of high-quality protein to the developing countries. An alternative option would be to re-evaluate the currently proposed values for the requirements for protein and amino acids. We conclude that the choice of values for the adult lysine requirement should be re-evaluated and that serious consideration should be given to the extent to which adaptive mechanisms might enable the metabolic requirement for protein to be met from current intakes. This will entail a better understanding of the relationships between dietary protein and health.
15154518	Novel tricyclic 3,3a,5,9b-tetrahydro-2H-furo[3,2-c][2]benzopyran (TFB) derivatives were synthesized, and their herbicidal activities were elucidated. They were synthesized from D-glucose as a natural chiral source. The formation of the TFB skeleton was achieved by a Friedel-Crafts type intramolecular cyclization of methyl 5-deoxy-2,3-O-dibenzyl-5-C-methyl-D-xylofranosides. The intramolecular cyclization was dependent upon the electronic effects of the substituents at the C-2 benzyloxy group of methyl xylofranosides. Some TFBs exhibited a remarkable herbicidal activity to annual paddy weeds, such as Echinochloa sp, without injury to the rice.
1515570	The author visited China in 1981 and 1984 and obtained data comparing the incidence of duodenal ulcer in the rice eating districts of the south with the incidence in the wheat, maize and millet eating areas of the north. The evidence suggested a higher prevalence of duodenal ulcer in the rice eating areas than in the wheat eating areas, and a low prevalence in association with millet eating. However, the differences were less marked than between similar rice and wheat eating areas of India. It is suggested that the lower prevalence of duodenal ulcer in the wheat eating areas of north India compared with the rice eating areas of south India may be due in part to the mucosal protective effect of wheat bran in the unrefined wheat that is used in making chappatis. In China white refined flour is used in the making of steamed bread with the loss of any protective effect of wheat bran.
15155796	Using analytical methods, we show that under a variety of model misspecifications, Neighbor-Joining, minimum evolution, and least squares estimation procedures are statistically inconsistent. Failure to correctly account for differing rates-across-sites processes, failure to correctly model rate matrix parameters, and failure to adjust for parallel rates-across-sites changes (a rates-across-subtrees process) are all shown to lead to a "long branch attraction" form of inconsistency. In addition, failure to account for rates-across-sites processes is also shown to result in underestimation of evolutionary distances for a wide variety of substitution models, generalizing an earlier analytical result for the Jukes-Cantor model reported in Golding and a similar bias result for the GTR or REV model in Kelly and Rice (1996). Although standard rates-across-sites models can be employed in many of these cases to restore consistency, current models cannot account for other kinds of misspecification. We examine an idealized but biologically relevant case, where parallel changes in rates at sites across subtrees is shown to give rise to inconsistency. This changing rates-across-subtrees type model misspecification cannot be adjusted for with conventional methods or without carefully considering the rate variation in the larger tree. The results are presented for four-taxon trees, but the expectation is that they have implications for larger trees as well. To illustrate this, a simulated 42-taxon example is given in which the microsporidia, an enigmatic group of eukaryotes, are incorrectly placed at the archaebacteria-eukaryotes split because of incorrectly specified pairwise distances. The analytical nature of the results lend insight into the reasons that long branch attraction tends to be a common form of inconsistency and reasons that other forms of inconsistency like "long branches repel" can arise in some settings. In many of the cases of inconsistency presented, a particular incorrect topology is estimated with probability converging to one, the implication being that measures of uncertainty like bootstrap support will be unable to detect that there is a problem with the estimation. The focus is on distance methods, but previous simulation results suggest that the zones of inconsistency for distance methods contain the zones of inconsistency for maximum likelihood methods as well.
15155887	The causal agent of rice blast disease, the ascomycete fungus Magnaporthe grisea, infects rice (Oryza sativa) plants by means of specialized infection structures called appressoria, which are formed on the leaf surface and mechanically rupture the cuticle. We have identified a gene, Magnaporthe metallothionein 1 (MMT1), which is highly expressed throughout growth and development by M. grisea and encodes an unusual 22-amino acid metallothionein-like protein containing only six Cys residues. The MMT1-encoded protein shows a very high affinity for zinc and can act as a powerful antioxidant. Targeted gene disruption of MMT1 produced mutants that show accelerated hyphal growth rates and poor sporulation but had no effect on metal tolerance. Mmt1 mutants are incapable of causing plant disease because of an inability to bring about appressorium-mediated cuticle penetration. Mmt1 appears to be distributed in the inner side of the cell wall of the fungus. These findings indicate that Mmt1-like metallothioneins may play a novel role in fungal cell wall biochemistry that is required for fungal virulence.
15156144	Sex chromosomes are subject to sex-specific selective evolutionary forces. One model predicts that genes with sex-biased expression should be enriched on the X chromosome. In agreement with Rice's hypothesis, spermatogonial genes are over-represented on the X chromosome of mice and sex- and reproduction-related genes are over-represented on the human X chromosome. Male-biased genes are under-represented on the X chromosome in worms and flies, however. Here we show that mouse spermatogenesis genes are relatively under-represented on the X chromosome and female-biased genes are enriched on it. We used Spo11(-/-) mice blocked in spermatogenesis early in meiosis to evaluate the temporal pattern of gene expression in sperm development. Genes expressed before the Spo11 block are enriched on the X chromosome, whereas those expressed later in spermatogenesis are depleted. Inactivation of the X chromosome in male meiosis may be a universal driving force for X-chromosome demasculinization.
15156440	Diarrheal diseases are a leading cause of childhood morbidity and mortality in Latin America. Most studies have focused on infants but not on older children. We enrolled 505 children (age, 12-59 months) with diarrhea and age-matched controls in a case-control study in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Independent risk factors for diarrhea included another household member with diarrhea (matched odds ratio [mOR], 8.1; attributable fraction [AF], 0.17; P<.001) and consumption of homemade juice (mOR, 1.8; AF, 0.10; P=.01); protective factors included boiling of the baby bottle or nipple (mOR, 0.60; AF, 0.19; P=.026), childcare at home (mOR, 0.58; AF, 0.12; P=.004), and piped sewage (mOR, 0.58; AF, 0.05; P=.047). Hand washing by the caretaker after helping the child defecate protected against Shigella infection (mOR, 0.35; P<.05). Preparation of rice, beans, or soup in the morning and serving it to children after noon were associated with enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli infection (mOR, 8.0; P<.05). In these poor households, 28% of cases of diarrhea in 1-4-year-old children was attributable to easily modifiable exposures.
15158685	Rice is becoming increasingly important as a staple food in West Africa and there is a need to increase production to meet the demand and one way to achieve this is to harvest two annual crops. It is possible that such intensified irrigation could affect transmission of schistosomes and this study attempts to compare schistosome transmission in single and double-cropped areas of an irrigation scheme, 'Office du Niger', in Mali. Double cropping has been practised for some years in the Niono area while in the Kolongotomo area still only a single crop is grown. Parasitological surveys conducted in 10 villages (5 from each of these 2 areas) showed that Schistosoma haematobium was less prevalent in the area with single cropping than in the area with double cropping. In order to compare transmission patterns between the two areas, all human-water contact sites around four villages (two from each area) were identified and included in transmission studies. From August 1996 to June 1997, eight surveys were conducted, at intervals of approximately 45 days, in each of these sites to record density of the intermediate hosts, density of infected snails, environmental factors (especially density of aquatic macrophytes), and frequency of human-water contacts. Although the data provide useful information on transmission patterns in Niono and Kolongotomo areas, they fail to demonstrate clear-cut differences in snail population dynamics and transmission patterns between the two areas. A key element in snail habitats in both areas is the abundance of aquatic macrophytes, especially the submerged species. Snail control using environmental modification should focus on controlling these plants in human-water contact sites.
15158716	Rice glutelin, which accounts for 70-80% of the total proteins of the seeds, consists of two nutritionally different subfamilies (A and B types). Although the similarity in primary sequences between the two subfamilies is as high as 60%, we established conditions to discriminate the two subfamilies when low amounts of antigen are analyzed by immunoblot methods. The glutelin alpha polypeptides can be resolved into six bands labeled alpha1 to alpha6 by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Gel filtration analysis showed that glutelin exists as a polymerized and a smaller molecular weight form. Immunoblot analysis of SDS-PAGE resolved polypeptides showed that alpha2, alpha3, and alpha4 are an A type and that these A types as well as alpha1, a B type, are polymerized. The polymerization tendency clearly differed between the two subfamilies except for alpha1, which may be derived from GluB-4 as suggested by analysis using Escherichia coli expression systems of glutelin cDNA regions corresponding to alpha polypeptides. GluB-4 and all the A type subunits have an extra Cys residue in the hypervariable regions, corresponding to the C-terminal region of alpha polypeptide. Accordingly, the extra Cys residue is hypothesized to be responsible for the polymerization of glutelin.
15159238	Iron bioavailability from traditional complementary foods based on cereals and legumes can be expected to be low unless ascorbic acid-rich foods are incorporated into the diet. We evaluated human milk as a source of ascorbic acid for enhancing iron bioavailability from khichuri, a complementary food based on rice and lentils. Erythrocyte incorporation of stable iron isotopes 14 d after administration was used as a proxy for iron bioavailability. Children aged 8-18 mo (n = 31) were breastfed (32-90 mg ascorbic acid/kg human milk) immediately after intake of 4 servings of khichuri labeled with (57)Fe (test meal B) and were offered water after intake of 4 servings of khichuri labeled with (58)Fe (test meal A). Test meals were fed twice daily during 4 d in the order of AABBAABB or BBAABBAA. The mean intakes of human milk and ascorbic acid were 274 g (range: 60-444 g) and 14 mg (range: 4-28 mg, respectively). The mean molar ratio of ascorbic acid to iron was 2.3 (range: 0.7-4.6). The geometric mean iron bioavailability from khichuri fed with or without human milk was 6.2% and 6.5%, respectively (P = 0.76, paired Student's t test). Although human milk contributed significant quantities of ascorbic acid, no significant difference in iron bioavailability was found between khichuri consumed with water and that consumed with human milk. These results indicate either that the molar ratio of ascorbic acid to iron was not sufficiently high to overcome the inhibitory effect of phytic acid in khichuri (30 mg/serving) or that components of human milk modified the influence of ascorbic acid on iron bioavailability.
15159626	The Aspergillus giganteus antifungal protein (AFP), encoded by the afp gene, has been reported to possess in vitro antifungal activity against various economically important fungal pathogens, including the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. In this study, transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) constitutively expressing the afp gene was generated by Agrobacterium -mediated transformation. Two different DNA constructs containing either the afp cDNA sequence from Aspergillus or a chemically synthesized codon-optimized afp gene were introduced into rice plants. In both cases, the DNA region encoding the signal sequence from the tobacco AP24 gene was N-terminally fused to the coding sequence of the mature AFP protein. Transgenic rice plants showed stable integration and inheritance of the transgene. No effect on plant morphology was observed in the afp -expressing rice lines. The inhibitory activity of protein extracts prepared from leaves of afp plants on the in vitro growth of M. grisea indicated that the AFP protein produced by the trangenic rice plants was biologically active. Several of the T(2) homozygous afp lines were challenged with M. grisea in a detached leaf infection assay. Transformants exhibited resistance to rice blast at various levels. Altogether, the results presented here indicate that AFP can be functionally expressed in rice plants for protection against the rice blast fungus M. grisea.
15159627	In this study, we present data showing that two members of the GRAS family of genes from rice, CIGR1 and CIGR2 (chitin-inducible gibberellin-responsive), inducible by the potent elicitor N -acetylchitooligosaccharide (GN), are rapidly induced by exogenous gibberellins. The pattern of mRNA accumulation was dependent on the dose and biological activity of the gibberellins, suggesting that the induction of the genes by gibberellin is mediated by a biological receptor capable of specific recognition and signal transduction upon perception of the phytoactive compounds. Further pharmacological analysis revealed that the CIGR1 and CIGR2 mRNA accumulation by treatment with gibberellin is dependent upon protein phosphorylation/dephosphorylation events. In rice calli derived from slender rice 1, a constitutive gibberellin-responsive mutant, or d1, a mutant deficient in the alpha -subunit of the heterotrimeric G-protein, CIGR1 and CIGR2 were induced by a GN elicitor, yet not by gibberellin. Neither gibberellin nor GN showed related activities in defense or development, respectively. These results strongly suggested that the signal transduction cascade from gibberellin is independent of that from GN, and further implied that CIGR1 and CIGR2 have dual, distinct roles in defense and development.
15159629	A rice gene, OsPIPK 1, encoding a 792-aa putative phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIPK), was identified and characterized. Comparison between the cDNA and genomic sequences revealed the presence of 10 exons (39-1050 bp) and 9 introns (88-745 bp) in OsPIPK 1 gene. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsPIPK1 contains a lipid kinase domain that is highly homologous to those of previously isolated PIPKs, and structural analysis revealed the intriguing presence of multiple MORN motifs at the N-terminus. The MORN motifs have also been detected in PIPKs from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, but not in the well-characterized PIPKs from animal and yeast cells. RT-PCR analysis indicated that OsPIPK 1 was expressed almost constitutively in roots, shoots, stems, leaves and flowers, and up-regulated following treatment with plant hormones or application of various stresses. An antisense transgenic strategy was used to suppress the expression of OsPIPK 1, and homozygous transgenic plants showed earlier heading (7-14 days earlier) than control plants, suggesting that OsPIPK 1 negatively regulates floral initiation. This was further confirmed by morphologic observation showing earlier floral development in antisense plants, as well as leaf emergence measurement indicating delayed leaf development under OsPIPK 1 deficiency, a common phenotype observed with earlier flowering. RT-PCR analysis and cDNA chip technology were used to examine transcripts of various genes in the transgenic plants and the results showed altered transcriptions of several flowering-time or -identity related genes, suggesting that OsPIPK 1 is involved in rice heading through regulation of floral induction genes, signaling and metabolic pathways.
15159631	Anthranilate synthase (AS) is a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of various indole compounds including tryptophan. AS consists of two subunits, alpha and beta, and converts chorismate to anthranilate. Two or more AS alpha-subunit genes have been identified and characterized in several land plants. Although alpha subunits of AS induced by elicitation have been suggested to play significant roles in secondary metabolism, the biochemical and precise functional properties of individual AS isozymes have remained unclear. We have previously identified and characterized two AS alpha-subunit genes (OASA1 and OASA2) in rice (Oryza sativa). To provide further insight into the enzymatic functions of AS isozymes in rice, we have now isolated rice cDNAs encoding the AS beta subunits OASB1 and OASB2 and reconstituted AS isozymes in vitro with the wheat germ cell-free system for protein expression. Both OASB subunits conferred glutamine-dependent AS activity on either OASA1 or OASA2, indicating the absence of a marked functional difference between the two beta subunits in terms of amidotransferase activity. Furthermore, both OASA subunits required assembly with a beta subunit to achieve maximal enzymatic activity even with NH(4)(+) as the amino donor. The V (max) and K (i) for tryptophan of the OASA1-OASB1 isozyme with glutamine as the amino donor, however, were 2.4 and 7.5 times, respectively, those of OASA2-OASB1, suggesting that AS isozymes containing OASA1 possess a higher activity and are less sensitive to feedback inhibition than those containing OASA2. Our biochemical characterization of reconstituted AS isozymes has thus revealed distinct functional properties of these isozymes in rice.
15159637	We combined cDNA amplified fragment length polymorphism (cDNA-AFLP) with bulked segregant analysis (BSA) to detect genes that control rice blast (Magnaporthe grisea) resistance in a double-haploid (DH) population derived from a cross between a blast-resistant variety, Zhai Ye Qing8 (ZYQ8), and a blast-susceptible variety, Jin Xi17 (JX17). In cDNA-AFLP analysis between a blast resistance (R) pool and a blast susceptibility (S) pool from the DH population, 12 transcript-derived fragments (TDFs) that were present in only one of the two pools were detected, 8 of which were from the R pool and 4 from the S pool. Mapping analysis of these TDFs by using the DH mapping population showed that five of them, R1, R8, S9, S16 and S17, were located on chromosome 1. Sequence comparison and allelic analysis showed that R1/S16 and R8/S9 were two pairs of allelic genes. The full-length cDNA sequences of R1/S16, S17 and R8/S were obtained through cDNA library screening, in which only the expression level of R8 cDNA was up-regulated by inoculation with the blast isolate zh10814 and not affected by mock treatment, suggesting that R8 was implicated in the signaling pathways of the rice blast resistance reaction. Protein function prediction showed that R8 cDNA encodes a protein with high identity to a putative calmodulin-binding protein in Arabidopsis thaliana which belongs to the P-loop-containing nucleotide triphosphate hydrolases superfamily that contains a number of various kinases.
15160445	The main aim of the study was to describe the differences between some Northern countries regarding what foods, according to the patients, elicit hypersensitivity symptoms. At the participating clinics, patients with a history of food hypersensitivity (n = 1139) were asked to fill in a questionnaire in which 86 different foodstuffs were listed. Skin-prick tests (SPT) were performed with common inhalant allergens. The foods that were reported as eliciting symptoms differed between countries. In Russia, Estonia, and Lithuania; citrus fruits, chocolate, honey, apple, hazelnut, strawberry, fish, tomato, egg, and milk were most often reported as causes of hypersensitivity. In Sweden and Denmark; birch pollen (BP) related foods, such as nuts, apple, pear, kiwi, stone fruits, and carrot were the most common causes. In all countries, children, more often than adults, had symptoms of allergic reaction to citrus fruits, tomato, strawberry, milk, egg, and fish. Most patients (95%) reported hypersensitivity to several foodstuffs (median: eight foods). The most common symptoms were oral allergy syndrome and urticaria. Severe symptoms were most common with fish, shellfish, nuts, and milk. Slight symptoms were most common with rice, coriander, poppy seed, lingonberry, corn, caraway red currant, and fig. Earlier well-known correlations, such as that between BP sensitization and some fruits and vegetables, as well as that between mugwort and some spices, were conoborated. Positive correlations were found between self-reported hypersensitivity to crustaceans and SPT with horse. A negative correlation was seen between hypersensitivity to crustaceans and SPT with BP. The foodstuffs that often are reported to cause food hypersensitivity, differ between Sweden/Denmark on one side and the Baltic States and Russia on the other. BP-related foods dominate in Scandinavia, whereas some mugwort-related foods are of more importance in Russia and the Baltic States.
15160609	Fourteen strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens isolated from rhizosphere soil of rice were tested for their antagonistic effect towards Rhizoctonia solani, the rice sheath blight fungus. Among them, PfMDU2 was the most effective in inhibiting mycelial growth of R. solani in vitro. Production of chitinase, beta-1,3-glucanase, siderophores, salicylic acid (SA) and hydrogen cyanide (HCN) by P. fluorescens strains was evaluated. The highest beta-1,3-glucanase activity, siderophore production, SA production and HCN production were recorded with PfMDU2. A significant relationship between the antagonistic potential of P. fluorescens against R. solani and its level of beta-1,3-glucanase, SA and HCN was observed.
15161194	A series of aminomethylene-bisphosphonic acid derivatives, previously synthesized and shown to be endowed with herbicidal properties, were evaluated as potential inhibitors of plant glutamine synthetase. The cytosolic form of the enzyme was partially purified from rice cultured cells and assayed in the presence of millimolar concentrations of the compounds by means of three different assay methods, respectively measuring the hemibiosynthetic, the transferase, and the full biosynthetic reactions. Several compounds were found to exert a remarkable inhibition, with I(50) values similar to those obtained under the same conditions with a well-established inhibitor of glutamine synthetase, the herbicide phosphinothricin. Contrary to the reference compound, enzyme kinetics accounted for a reversible inhibition mechanism. The biological activity of the most active derivatives was further characterized by measuring free glutamine levels in cell suspension rice cultures following treatment with the inhibitors. Results confirmed their ability to interfere in vivo with nitrogen metabolism. A preliminary analysis of structure-activity relationship allowed it to be hypothesized that steric rather than electronic factors are responsible for the inhibitory potential of these compounds.
15161200	With the development of transgenic crops, many countries have issued regulations to label the genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and their derived products. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) methods are thought to be reliable and useful techniques for qualitative and quantitative detection of GMOs. These methods generally need to amplify the transgene and compare the amplified result with that of the corresponding reference gene to obtain reliable results. In this article, we reported the development of specific primers and probe for the rice (Oryza sativa) sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) gene and PCR cycling conditions suitable for the use of this sequence as an endogenous reference gene in both qualitative and quantitative PCR assays. Both methods were assayed with 13 different rice varieties, and identical amplification products were obtained with all of them. No amplification products were observed when DNA samples from other species, such as wheat, maize, barley, tobacco, soybean, rapeseed, tomato, sunflower, carrot, pepper, eggplant, lupine, mung bean, plum, and Arabidopsis thaliana, were used as templates, which demonstrated that this system was specific for rice. In addition, the results of the Southern blot analysis confirmed that the SPS gene was a single copy in the tested rice varieties. In qualitative and quantitative PCR analyses, the detection sensitivities were 0.05 and 0.005 ng of rice genomic DNA, respectively. To test the practical use of this SPS gene as an endogenous reference gene, we have also quantified the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene in transgenic rice using this reference gene. These results indicated that the SPS gene was species specific, had one copy number, and had a low heterogeneity among the tested cultivars. Therefore, this gene could be used as an endogenous reference gene of rice and the optimized PCR systems could be used for practical qualitative and quantitative detection of transgenic rice.
15161245	The phytotoxin epi-radicinol, a diastereomer of radicinol, was isolated from large cultures of Alternaria radicina grown on carrot slices and identified by GC-MS, LC-MS, (1)H NMR, and (13)C NMR. Four strains of A. radicina isolated from rotted carrot produced epi-radicinol as the major metabolite (up to 39414 microg/g) together with radicinol (up to 2423 microg/g), and, to a lesser extent, radicinin when cultured on carrot slices, whereas on rice they mainly produced radicinin (2486-53800 microg/g). Radicinin and epi-radicinol reduced root elongation of germinating carrot seeds at concentrations of 10-20 microg/mL. Carrot samples naturally infected by A. radicina contained detectable quantities of epi-radicinol also in combination with lower levels of radicinin or radicinol. Accumulation of radicinols and radicinin in stored carrots, either naturally contaminated or artificially inoculated with A. radicina, was stimulated by successive temperature rises from 1 to 10 degrees C and from 10 to 20 degrees C, reaching maximum levels of 60 microg/g epi-radicinol and 26 microg/g radicinin. This is the first report on the production of radicinols by A. radicina and its natural occurrence in carrots in association with radicinin.
15161969	Integration of structural genomic data from a largely assembled rice genome sequence, with phylogenetic analysis of sequence samples for many other taxa, suggests that a polyploidization event occurred approximately 70 million years ago, before the divergence of the major cereals from one another but after the divergence of the Poales from the Liliales and Zingiberales. Ancient polyploidization and subsequent "diploidization" (loss) of many duplicated gene copies has thus shaped the genomes of all Poaceae cereal, forage, and biomass crops. The Poaceae appear to have evolved as separate lineages for approximately 50 million years, or two-thirds of the time since the duplication event. Chromosomes that are predicted to be homoeologs resulting from this ancient duplication event account for a disproportionate share of incongruent loci found by comparison of the rice sequence to a detailed sorghum sequence-tagged site-based genetic map. Differential gene loss during diploidization may have contributed many of these incongruities. Such predicted homoeologs also account for a disproportionate share of duplicated sorghum loci, further supporting the hypothesis that the polyploidization event was common to sorghum and rice. Comparative gene orders along paleo-homoeologous chromosomal segments provide a means to make phylogenetic inferences about chromosome structural rearrangements that differentiate among the grasses. Superimposition of the timing of major duplication events on taxonomic relationships leads to improved understanding of comparative gene orders, enhancing the value of data from botanical models for crop improvement and for further exploration of genomic biodiversity. Additional ancient duplication events probably remain to be discovered in other angiosperm lineages.
15162398	This study was undertaken to isolate and characterize plant growth promoting bacteria (PGPB) occurring in four soils of Zanzibar, Tanzania as well as to evaluate their potential use as biofertilizers for rice. A total of 12 PGPB strains were isolated from rice and studied for growth characteristics, carbon/nitrogen source utilization patterns using QTS-24 kits, phosphate solubilization, indole acetic acid (IAA) production, antibiotic resistance patterns and growth at different pH, temperature and salt concentrations. All the isolates were motile and gram negative except Z3-4. Acetylene reduction activity was detected in all isolates ranging from 5.9-76.4 nmole C2H2 reduced/h x mg protein while 9 isolates produced IAA ranged from 20-90.8 mg/l. Most of the isolates showed resistance against different environmental stresses like 10-40 degrees C temperature, 0.2-1 M salt concentration and 4-8.5 pH range. Only one isolate Z2-7 formed clear zones on Pikovskaia's medium showing its ability to solubilize phosphates. Z3-2 was used to develop fluorescent antibodies to check the cross reactivity of the isolates. Inoculation of these bacterial isolates resulted in higher plant biomass, root area, and total N and P contents on Tanzanian rice variety BKN PRAT3036B under controlled conditions. Bacillus sp. Z3-4 and Azospirillum sp. Z3-1 are effective strains and, after further testing under field conditions, can be used for inoculum production of rice in Tanzania. The plant growth promoting effects of these PGPRs suggest that these can be exploited to improve crop productivity of rice in Tanzania.
15162727	The wild rice species Oryza latifolia is endemic to Tropical America, allotetraploid and has a CCDD genome type. It belongs to the officinalis group of the genus Oryza. This species is widely distributed throughout the lowlands of Costa Rica and it is found on different life zones, having great morphologic diversity. The purpose of this research is to perform a morphologic description of O. latifolia samples of three Costa Rican localities (Carara, Liberia and Cañas) and to see if the phenotypic diversity of the species is reflected at the ultra-structure level. Structures such as the leaf blade, ligule, auricles and spikelet were analyzed. Leaf blade morphology of the specimens from the three localities is characterized by the presence of diamond-shaped stomata with papillae, zipper-like rows of silica cells; a variety of evenly distributed epicuticular wax papillae and bulky prickle trichomes. The central vein of the leaf blade from the Cañas populations is glabrous, while those from Carara and Liberia have abundant papillae. There are also differences among the borders of the leaf blade between these locations. Cañas and Liberia present alternating large and small prickle trichomes ca. 81 and 150 microns, while Carara exhibits even sized prickle trichomes of ca. 93 microns. Auricles from Cañas are rectangular and present long trichomes along the surface ca. 1.5 mm, while those of Liberia and Carara wrap the culm and exhibit trichomes only in the borders. The ligule from the plants of Carara has an acute distal tip, while that of Cañas and Liberia is blunt. The Liberia spikelet has large lignified spines while Cañas and Carara show flexible trichomes.
15164835	The simultaneous determination of mycotoxins was performed in 3 steps: extraction, cleanup, and detection. For extraction, a mixture of acetonitrile-water (60 + 40, v/v) was proved appropriate. For cleanup, a new Afla-Ochra-Zea immunoaffinity column was used. After derivatization with trifluoroacetic acid, the mycotoxins aflatoxins, ochratoxin A (OTA), and zearalenone (ZEA) were determined simultaneously by liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. The detection limits in different matrixes after cleanup with the new immunoaffinity column were very low: aflatoxins, 0.002-0.7 microg/kg; OTA, 0.07-0.25 microg/kg; ZEA, 1-3 microg/kg. The limits of determination were: aflatoxins, 0.25 microg/kg; OTA, 0.5 microg/kg; ZEA, 5 microg/kg. The recovery rates for aflatoxins, OTA, and ZEA for rye and rice were between 86 and 93% when a 0.5 g sample matter per immunoaffinity column was used.
15165387	Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) has been used for the last few years to treat sports injuries. The purpose of this study was to compare three therapeutic protocols in treating edema in second degree ankle sprains that did not require immobilization with a splint, under placebo-controlled conditions. Forty-seven soccer players with second degree ankle sprains, selected at random, were divided into the following groups: The first group (n = 16) was treated with the conventional initial treatment (RICE, rest, ice, compression, elevation), the second group (n = 16) was treated with the RICE method plus placebo laser, and the third group (n = 15) was treated with the RICE method plus an 820-nm GaA1As diode laser with a radiant power output of 40 mW at 16 Hz. Before the treatment, and 24, 48, and 72 h later, the volume of the edema was measured. A three by three repeated measures ANOVA with a follow up post hoc test revealed that the group treated with the RICE and an 820-nm GaA1As diode laser presented a statistically significant reduction in the volume of the edema after 24 h (40.3 +/- 2.4 mL, p < 0.01), 48 h (56.4 +/- 3.1 mL, p < 0.002), and 72 h (65.1 +/- 4.4 mL, p < 0.001). LLLT combined with RICE can reduce edema in second-degree ankle sprains.
15165559
15165560
15165856	Cytoglobin (Cgb), a newly discovered member of the vertebrate globin family, binds O(2) reversibly via its heme, as is the case for other mammalian globins (hemoglobin (Hb), myoglobin (Mb) and neuroglobin (Ngb)). While Cgb is expressed in various tissues, its physiological role is not clearly understood. Here, the X-ray crystal structure of wild type human Cgb in the ferric state at 2.4A resolution is reported. In the crystal structure, ferric Cgb is dimerized through two intermolecular disulfide bonds between Cys38(B2) and Cys83(E9), and the dimerization interface is similar to that of lamprey Hb and Ngb. The overall backbone structure of the Cgb monomer exhibits a traditional globin fold with a three-over-three alpha-helical sandwich, in which the arrangement of helices is basically the same among all globins studied to date. A detailed comparison reveals that the backbone structure of the CD corner to D helix region, the N terminus of the E-helix and the F-helix of Cgb resembles more closely those of pentacoordinated globins (Mb, lamprey Hb), rather than hexacoordinated globins (Ngb, rice Hb). However, the His81(E7) imidazole group coordinates directly to the heme iron as a sixth axial ligand to form a hexcoordinated heme, like Ngb and rice Hb. The position and orientation of the highly conserved residues in the heme pocket (Phe(CD1), Val(E11), distal His(E7) and proximal His(F8)) are similar to those of other globin proteins. Two alternative conformations of the Arg84(E10) guanidium group were observed, suggesting that it participates in ligand binding to Cgb, as is the case for Arg(E10) of Aplysia Mb and Lys(E10) of Ngb. The structural diversities and similarities among globin proteins are discussed with relevance to molecular evolutionary relationships.
15168561	Some model studies were performed using various agricultural Products, to clarify the relation between cooking conditions and production of acrylamide (AA). Disc chips made from dried mashed potato, corn meal, wheat flour, rice flour (jyohshin-ko) and glutinous rice flour (shiratama-ko), and dried sesame (arai-goma) and dried almond were baked at 120-200 degrees C for 5-20 min, and the samples were analyzed for the levels of AA. When the samples were baked for 10 min, the highest production of AA was observed at 180-200 degrees C. When the samples were baked at 180 degrees C, AA levels in agricultural products except sesame were highest after baking for 10 min. Vegetables and fruit were baked at 220 degrees C for 5 min with a oven, high AA concentrations were found in baked potato, asparagus, pumpkin, eggplant and green gram sprouts. Concentrations of AA in potato, asparagus and green gram sprouts baked after being pre-cooked by microwave irradiation were higher than those in the products baked without being precooked. On the other hand, the precooking by boiling reduced the production of AA by baking to 1/10-1/4. Acrylamide was not found in microwaved or boiled vegetables. High free asparagine concentrations in crops tended to result in high concentrations of AA being produced by heating the agricultural products.
15168679	Significant progress in human genome research has been made in China since 1994. This review aims to give a brief and incomplete introduction to the major research institutions and their achievements in human genome sequencing and functional genomics in medicine, with emphasis on the "1% Sequencing Project", the generation of single nucleotide polymorphism and haplotype maps of the human genome, disease gene identification, and the molecular characterization of leukemia and other diseases. Chinese efforts towards the sequencing of pathogenic microbial genomes and of the rice (Oryza sativa ssp. Indica) genome are also described.
15168855	The kinetics of enzymatic hydrolysis of rice bran oil in isooctane by immobilized Candida rugosa lipase in a batch reactor showed competitive inhibition by isooctane with a dissociation constant, K1, of 0.92 M. Continuous hydrolysis of rice bran oil was performed in recycling, packed bed reactor with 4352 U of immobilized lipase; the optimum recycle ratio was 9 and the operational half-life was 360 h without isooctane but 288 h with 25% (v/v) isooctane in rice bran oil.
15169933	The internal conductance for CO(2) diffusion (g(i)) and CO(2) assimilation rate were measured and the related anatomical characteristics were investigated in transgenic rice leaves that overexpressed barley aquaporin HvPIP2;1. This study was performed to test the hypothesis that aquaporin facilitates CO(2) diffusion within leaves. The g(i) value was estimated for intact leaves by concurrent measurements of gas exchange and carbon isotope ratio. The leaves of the transgenic rice plants that expressed the highest levels of Aq-anti-HvPIP2;1 showed a 40% increase in g(i) as compared to g(i) in the leaves of wild-type rice plants. The increase in g(i) was accompanied by a 14% increase in CO(2) assimilation rate and a 27% increase in stomatal conductance (g(s)). The transgenic plants that had low levels of Aq-anti-HvPIP2;1 showed decreases in g(i) and CO(2) assimilation rate. In the plants with high levels of Aq-anti-HvPIP2;1, mesophyll cell size decreased and the cell walls of the epidermis and mesophyll cells thickened, indicating that the leaves had become xeromorphic. Although such anatomical changes could partially offset the increase in g(i) by the aquaporin, the increase in aquaporin content overcame such adverse effects.
15169937	Plant roots have important roles not only in absorption of water and nutrients, but also in stress tolerance such as desiccation, salt, and low temperature. We have investigated stress-response proteins from rice roots using 2-dimensional polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis and found a rice protein, RO-292, which was induced specifically in roots when 2-week-old rice seedlings were subjected to salt and drought stress. The full-length RO-292 cDNA was cloned, and was determined to encode a protein of 160 amino acid residues (16.9 kDa, pI 4.74). The deduced amino acid sequence showed high similarity to known rice PR10 proteins, OsPR10a/PBZ1 and OsPR10b. RO-292 mRNA accumulated rapidly upon drought, NaCl, jasmonic acid and probenazole, but not by exposure to low temperature or by abscisic acid and salicylic acid. The RO-292 gene was also up-regulated by infection with rice blast fungus. Interestingly, induction was observed almost exclusively in roots, thus we named the gene RSOsPR10 (root specific rice PR10). The present results indicate that RSOsPR10 is a novel rice PR10 protein, which is rapidly induced in roots by salt, drought stresses and blast fungus infection possibly through activation of the jasmonic acid signaling pathway, but not the abscisic acid and salicylic acid signaling pathway.
15169941	Myosins play an important role in various developmental processes in plants. We have identified 14 myosin genes in rice (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare) genome using sequence information available in public databases. Phylogenetic analysis of these sequences with other plant and non-plant myosins revealed that two of the predicted sequences belonged to class VIII and the others to class XI. All of these genes were distributed on seven chromosomes in the rice genome. Domain searches on these sequences indicated that a typical rice myosin consisted of Myosin_N, head domain, neck (IQ motifs), tail, and dilute (DIL) domain. Based on the sequence information obtained from predicted myosins, we isolated and sequenced two full-length cDNAs, OsMyoVIIIA and OsMyoXIE, representing each of the two classes of myosins. These two cDNAs isolated from different organs existed in isoforms due to differential splicing and showed minor differences from the predicted myosin in exon organization. Out of 14 myosin genes 11 were expressed in three major organs: leaves, panicles, and roots, among which three myosins exhibited different expression levels. On the other hand, three of the total myosin sequences showed organ-specific expression. The existence of different myosin genes and their isoforms in different organs or tissues indicates the diversity of myosin functions in rice.
15169946	Effects of low temperature on chlorophyll (Chl) fluorescence, gas exchange rate, the amounts of xanthophyll cycle pigments (Xp) and the activities of several antioxidant enzymes were examined in the 8th leaf of two rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars (japonica and indica types) and rbcS antisense rice. All plants were grown hydroponically at 25/20 degrees C (day/night), and then exposed to 20/17 degrees C (day/night) after full expansion of the 8th leaf, or exposed to either 20/17 degrees C or 15/13 degrees C (day/night) during the expansion of the 8th leaf. All plants exposed to low temperatures showed a decrease in CO(2) assimilation rate without photoinhibition, and increases in the fraction of thermal dissipation in PSII, and in the electron flux through the water-water cycle (WWC) were observed. Although the increase of thermal dissipation was associated with increases in the ratio of carotenoids to Chl, the ratio of Xp to carotenoids and the de-epoxidation state of Xp, the increase of the electron flux of WWC was not accompanied by an increase in the activities of antioxidant enzymes. Such photoprotective responses did not differ between during and after full expansion of the leaf, and did not differ among the three genotypes. Quantitative analyses on the dissipation of excess light energy showed that thermal dissipation makes a larger contribution than WWC. Thus, although low temperature led to a decrease in CO(2) assimilation, rice potentially coped with the excess light energy by increasing the thermal dissipation and the electron flux of WWC under low temperature irrespective of leaf development and genotypes.
15170115	Brassinosteroids containing various side chain moieties were synthesized and their activity was determined as the reciprocal logarithm of the ED(50) (50% effective dose per plant in moles) in the rice lamina inclination assay using synergist indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). The introduction of a hydroxyl group in the alpha-position to the carbonyl group of the ester structure significantly enhanced the activity. 2alpha,3alpha-Dihydroxy-17beta-[(2R,3S)-2-hydroxy-3-methylpentanoyl]oxy-B-homo-7-oxa-5alpha-androstan-6-one showed the highest activity, for which the pED(50) was determined to be 10.5 under synergistic conditions with IAA. Under identical conditions, the pED(50) values of brassinolide and castasterone were determined to be 13.6 and 12.3 respectively. With respect to the alpha-carbon of the acyl moiety, the R-form was 10 times more potent than the corresponding S-form. Substituting the terminal structure (Et) of the side chain to that of the most potent compound, brassinolide (i-Pr), did not increase the activity.
15170866	Rice is the most important crop species on earth, providing staple food for 70% of the world's human population. Over the past four decades, successes in classical breeding, fertilization, pest control, irrigation and expansion of arable land have massively increased global rice production, enabling crop scientists and farmers to stave off anticipated famines. If current projections for human population growth are correct, however, present rice yields will be insufficient within a few years. Rice yields will have to increase by an estimated 60% in the next 30 years, or global food security will be in danger. The classical methods of previous green revolutions alone will probably not be able to meet this challenge, without being coupled to recombinant DNA technology. Here, we focus on the promise of these modern technologies in the area of nitrogen acquisition in rice, recognizing that nitrogen deficiency compromises the realization of rice yield potential in the field more than any other single factor. We summarize rice-specific advances in four key areas of research: (1). nitrogen fixation, (2). primary nitrogen acquisition, (3). manipulations of internal nitrogen metabolism, and (4). interactions between nitrogen and photosynthesis. We develop a model for future plant breeding possibilities, pointing out the importance of coming to terms with the complex interactions among the physiological components under manipulation, in the context of ensuring proper targeting of intellectual and financial resources in this crucial area of research.
15172572	Concentrations of Al, Cd, Cr, Cu, Mn, Ni, Pb, U and Zn were determined in vegetables (leafy vegetables, fruit, root, grain and cereal), derived products (sugar, coffee, manioc flour, wheat flour, corn flour, and pasta) and animal products (meat, fish, milk) most frequently consumed by adult inhabitants of Rio de Janeiro city. A total of 90 samples were analyzed using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS) as the principal method following sample dissolution by dry and wet ashing. Generally, highest contributions for the intake of micronutrients (Cu, Mn, Ni and Zn) arise from bean, rice and wheat flour consumption. Meat, cow milk and the flours, wheat and manioc, are major sources of Al, Cd, Pb and U intake. The daily intake of nine elements via foodstuffs was estimated as: 3.4x10(-4) mg of U, 1.8x10(-3) mg of Cd, 2.8x10(-2) mg of Pb, 2.3x10(-2) mg of Cr, 8.9x10(-2) mg of Ni, 1.12 mg of Cu, 2.5 mg of Mn, 3.5 mg of Al and 4.8 mg of Zn. The intake of toxic elements ranged between 2.7% (Cd) and 30% (U) of the provisional tolerable daily intake and reference dose values indicating that food consumption is, at present, no critical factor for the uptake of these toxic metals, in the population studied here. Concerning micronutrients, the recommended values of daily intake of Cu and Mn are conveniently supplied by the diet; however, for Cr and Zn they are lower than the recommend daily allowance. Due to high metal concentrations and consumption rates, black bean is the foodstuff that provided the highest ingestion rates of Cu, Mn, Ni and Zn (36-60% of the reference dose), being therefore a very important source of micronutrient supply.
15172602	The changes in total P accumulation and P compounds with time in the plough layer in a paddy soil in southern Korea were investigated in relation to the continuous application of chemical fertilizers (NPK), straw based compost (Compost), combination these two (NPK+Compost) for 31 years. Continuous fertilization increased the total and inorganic P contents in plough layers. In NPK, inorganic P fraction did not change with time, but organic P content increased significantly. Long-term application of chemical fertilizer together with compost accelerated the decrease in the organic P fraction, presumably due to promoting microbial activity in the plow layer, and then increased significantly inorganic P fraction. Compost application decreased the residual P and Fe-P fractions and then increased inorganic P fraction, in spite of continuous compost application. Increase in total, inorganic and extractable P with time may be closely related to the increase in the availability of accumulated P for rice growth.
15173115	The identification of homologous regions within and between genomes is an essential prerequisite for studying genome structure and evolution. Different methods already exist that allow detecting homologous regions in an automated manner. These methods are based either on finding sequence similarities at the DNA level or on identifying chromosomal regions showing conservation of gene order and content. Especially the latter approach has proven useful for detecting homology between highly divergent chromosomal regions. However, until now, such map-based approaches required that candidate homologous regions show significant collinearity with other segments to be considered as being homologous. Here, we present a novel method that creates profiles combining the gene order and content information of multiple mutually homologous genomic segments. These profiles can be used to scan one or more genomes to detect segments that show significant collinearity with the entire profile but not necessarily with individual segments. When applying this new method to the combined genomes of Arabidopsis and rice, we find additional evidence for ancient duplication events in the rice genome.
15175669
15176737	An efficient clonal propagation procedure for six rice varieties cultivated in Argentina was developed by using shoot tip cultures, and the genetic stability of the micropropagated plants was verified by isozyme analysis. One week old seedlings obtained on MS medium were sectioned and subcultured on MS medium (0.75% agar) supplemented with different combination and concentrations of cytokinins (BAP and KIN) and auxins (2,4-D and NAA). After four weeks of culture, multiple shoots were obtained. The best response was observed on MS supplemented with BAP 5 mg l(-1). Shoot clumps were multiplied in MS liquid medium containing BAP 5 mg l(-1). Profuse rooting was obtained after transfer to MS medium lacking growth regulators and with sucrose 8% (w/v). Complete plants were successfully transferred to soil and grown to maturity. ADH and EST patterns of micropropagated rice plants showed polymorphisms compared with plants of the original varieties. However, the zymograms of the seed derived progeny of the micropropagated plants were similar to that of the original varieties. These results indicate the maintenance of the genetic stability in the sexual progeny of micropropagated plants.
15177695	Between one third and one half of the proposed rice genes appear to have no homologs in other species, including Arabidopsis. Compositional considerations, and a comparison of curated rice sequences with ex novo predictions, suggest that many or most of the putative genes without homologs may be false positive predictions, i.e., sequences that are never translated into functional proteins in vivo.
15179035	A subtracted library was constructed from wound-treated wild rice (Oryza minuta) by suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) in combination with mirror orientation selection (MOS). To distinguish between differentially expressed transcripts and false positive clones, DNA chips containing 960 random clones were applied as a form of reverse Northern screening. Based on the signal intensities and expression ratios obtained from experiments performed in triplicate, 371 clones were selected. ESTs produced from the subtracted library showed 63.2% redundancy, and 72% of all clones could be matched to the GenBank nonredundant database. Functional categorization placed the identified enriched genes in categories of subcellular localization, metabolism, cell rescue and defense, and transcription. These EST-related resistance mechanisms could be used in investigations into the defense mechanisms of wild species, and to provide new routes to improving the germplasm of cultivated rice.
15180164	The levels of penitrems A, B, C, D, E, F, roquefortine C and thomitrem A and E recovered from extracts of 36 Norwegian, 2 American and one each of Japanese, German, South African, Danish and Fijian isolates of Penicillum crustosum Thom were quantitatively determined using high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS). Forty-two of the 44 isolates of penitrem-producing isolates grown on rice, afforded levels of thomitrem A and E comparable to that of penitrem A. Thomitrems A and E were also found, but at lower levels, when cultures were grown on barley. No thomitrems were found when the isolates were grown on liquid media. The effects of time and temperature on mycotoxin formation were studied on rice over a 4 week period at 10, 15 and 25 degrees C, respectively. No mycotoxins could be detected after 1 week at 10 degrees C, but after 2 weeks at 10 degrees C levels were similar to those produced at 15 and 25 degrees C. Higher levels of thomitrems A and E were detected when media were maintained at lower pH. The possibility that thomitrems A and E might be derived by acid promoted conversion of penitrems A and E was explored in stability trials performed at pH 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 in the presence and absence of media. Thomitrems were formed at pH 2, 3 and 4 but not at pH 5 and 7.
15180932	Many large genomes are getting sequenced nowadays. Biologists are eager to start microarray analysis taking advantage of all known genes of a species, but existing microarray design tools were very inefficient for large genomes. Also, many existing tools operate in a batch mode that does not assure best designs. Picky is an efficient oligo microarray design tool for large genomes. Picky integrates novel computer science techniques and the best known nearest-neighbor parameters to quickly identify sequence similarities and estimate their hybridization properties. Oligos designed by Picky are computationally optimized to guarantee the best specificity, sensitivity and uniformity under the given design constrains. Picky can be used to design arrays for whole genomes, or for only a subset of genes. The latter can still be screened against a whole genome to attain the same quality as a whole genome array, thereby permitting low budget, pathway-specific experiments to be conducted with large genomes. Picky is the fastest oligo array design tool currently available to the public, requiring only a few hours to process large gene sets from rice, maize or human.
15182839	The influence of carbon and nitrogen sources on the production of cellulases was investigated. The enzyme production was variable according to the carbon source. Levels of beta-cellobiohydrolase (CBH) were minimal in the presence of even low concentrations of glucose. Enzyme production was stimulated by other carbohydrates. The enzyme is subject to carbon source control by easily metabolizable sugars. Wheat bran and cellulose were the most effective promoters of beta-cellobiohydrolase and filter paperase (FPase) activities respectively, followed by rice bran. Exogenously supplied glucose inhibited the synthesis of the enzyme in cultures of A. niger growing on wheat bran. In defined medium with cellobiose, the cellobiohydrolase titres were 2- to 110-fold higher with cells growing on monomeric sugars and 1.5 times higher than cells growing on other disaccharides. It appeared that synthesis of beta-cellobiohydrolase varied under an induction mechanism, and a repression mechanism which changed the rate of synthesis of beta-cellobiohydrolase and FPase in induced over non-induced cultures. In this organism, substantial synthesis of beta-cellobiohydrolase can be induced by cellobiose, cellodextrin, cellulose or cellulose and hemi-cellulose containing substrates which showed low volumetric substrate uptake rate. The organism required limiting concentration of carbon, nitrogen or phosphorous for production of beta-cellobiohydrolase and FPase. During growth of A. niger on wheat bran, maximum volumetric productivities (Qp) of beta-cellobiohydrolase and FPase were 39.6 and 32.5 IU/lh and were significantly higher than the values reported for some other potent fungi and bacteria. The addition of actinomycin D (a repressor of transcription) and cycloheximide, (a repressor of translation) completely repressed CBH/FPase biosynthesis, suggested that the regulation of CBH synthesis in this organism occurs at both transcriptional and translational level. Thermodynamic studies revealed that the culture exerted protection against thermal inactivation when exposed to different fermentation temperatures.
15183992	The Albufera Natural Park situated in Valencia (Spain), with a very rich flora and fauna is surrounded by rice fields in which pesticide spraying is a regular practice. With this in mind, the sensitivity of four algal species, Scenedesmus acutus, Scenedesmus subspicatus, Chlorella vulgaris and Chlorella saccharophila to pesticides propanil, tebufenozide and mefenacet was studied using single species toxicity tests. Organisms were exposed to different concentrations of these herbicides and the algal growth was measured in a microplate reader at 410 nm, at 0, 24, 48 and 72 h. Tebufenozide appeared to be the most inhibitory to Scenedesmus and Chlorella species growth. 72 h EC50 of propanil, tebufenozide and mefenacet ranged from 0.29 to 5.98 mg/l, 0.12 to 0.15 mg/l and from 0.25 to 0.67 mg/l, respectively for the four algal species. The two species of Chlorella were more tolerant than the two species of Scenedesmus.
15184015	Six structurally oryzalide-related compounds, oryzadione (1), 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, were isolated from a neutral fraction of the extract of healthy leaves using a bacterial leaf blight-resistant cultivar of a rice plant, "Norin-27", as a group of antimicrobial substances. Their structures were determined by spectroscopic studies to be kaurane analogues and kaurane analogues conjugated with fatty acids, i.e., 1: ent-15,16-epoxy-kauran-2,3-dione (enol form: ent-15,16-epoxy-2-hydroxy-kauran-1-en-3-one), 2: ent-15,16-epoxy-3beta-hydroxy-kauran-2-one, 3: ent-15,16-epoxy-3-oxa-kauran-2-one, 4: ent-15,16-epoxy-3beta-myristoyloxy-kauran-2-one, 5: ent-15,16-epoxy-3alpha-palmitoyloxy-kauran-2-one, and 6: ent-15,16-epoxy-2beta-palmitoyloxy-kauran-2-one.
15184117	Zearalenone (ZEN) is converted to a nontoxic product by a lactonohydololase encoded by zhd101. An enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene was fused to zhd101 (i.e., egfp::zhd101) and expressed in Escherichia coli. Both recombinant ZHD101 and EGFP::ZHD101 were purified to homogeneity and characterized. Maximal activity of ZHD101 toward ZEN was measured at approximately 37 to 45 degrees C and pH 10.5 (k(cat) at 30 degrees C, 0.51 s(-1)). The enzyme was irreversibly inactivated at pH values below 4.5 or by treatment with serine protease inhibitors. ZHD101 was also active against five ZEN cognates, although the efficiencies were generally low; e.g., the k(cat) was highest with zearalanone (1.5 s(-1)) and lowest with beta-zearalenol (0.075 s(-1)). EGFP::ZHD101 had properties similar to those of the individual proteins with regard to the EGFP fluorescence and lactonohydrolase activity. Fortuitously, EGFP::ZHD101 exhibited a good correlation between the fluorescence intensity and reaction velocity under various pH conditions. We therefore used egfp::zhd101 to visually monitor the lactonohydrolase activity in genetically modified organisms and evaluated the usefulness of zhd101 for in vivo detoxification of ZEN. While recombinant E. coli and transgenic rice calluses exhibited strong EGFP fluorescence and completely degraded ZEN in liquid media, recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae gave poor fluorescence and did not eliminate all the toxicity of the mycotoxin in the medium; i.e., the rest of ZEN was transformed into an unfavorable substrate, beta-zearalenol, by an as-yet-unidentified reductase and remained in the medium. Even so, as much as 75% of ZEN was detoxified by the yeast transformant, which is better than the detoxification system in which food-grade Lactobacillus strains are used (H. El-Nezami, N. Polychronaki, S. Salminen, and H. Mykkuäne, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 68:3545-3549, 2002). An appropriate combination of a candidate host microbe and the codon-optimized synthetic gene may contribute significantly to establishing a mycotoxin detoxification system for food and feed.
15185950	A 2-yr entomological study was carried out in Kerala, south India, to identify the mosquito vectors of Japanese encephalitis (JE) virus and to determine their seasonal abundance and infection. In total, 150,454 mosquitoes belonging to five genera and 18 species were collected from vegetation surrounding cattle sheds and pigsties in villages at dusk. Culex tritaeniorhynchus Giles (66.7%) was the most abundant species, with increases in numbers associated with rice cultivation. JE virus isolations were made from Cx. tritaeniorhynchus and Mansonia indiana Edwards. Based on high abundance and frequent JE virus infection, Cx. tritaeniorhynchus seems to be the most important vector, whereas Ma. indiana is probably a secondary vector.
15186110	A new rice mutant Suweon 464 (S-464), which has extreme contrast in cooking quality and physicochemical properties from those of its mother variety Ilpumbyeo (IP), revealed striking differences in ultrastructure in in situ, fractured whole grain, and isolated starch preparation. In scanning electron microscopy (SEM), compound starch granules (CSG) in whole grains of IP were readily split during fracturing, whereas those in S-464 were structurally intact and were enclosed within a sac-like structure tolerant of fracturing. In isolated preparation, IP starch consisted entirely of individual starch granules, whereas S-464 starch consisted of mostly large CSG enclosed within the sac, preventing the release of the individuals. In transmission electron microscopy (TEM), S-464 starch granules were smaller, solidly "condensed", and highly contrasted, whereas those of IP were larger, loosely "diffused", and less contrasted. The boundaries of amyloplasts and starch granules in S-464 were coated with a thin proteinaceous layer, presumed to be the counterpart of the sac that enclosed the CSG observed in SEM.
15186454	To identify antimicrobial peptides with high lytic activity against Rhizoctonia solani strain LR172, causal agent of rice sheath blight and aerial blight of soyabeans in the US. Among 12 natural and synthetic antimicrobial peptides tested in vitro, the wheat-seed peptide, purothionin, showed the strongest inhibitory activity that was similar to the antifungal antibiotics, nystatin and nikkomycin Z. Cecropin B, a natural peptide from cecropia moth, and synthetic peptide D4E1 produced the highest inhibitory activity against R. solani among linear peptides. Membrane permeabilization levels strongly correlated with antifungal activity of the peptides. Noticeable changes in membrane integrity were observed at concentrations of >/=0.5 micromol l(-1) for purothionin, 2 micromol l(-1) for cecropin B, D4E1, D2A21, melittin, and phor21, and 8 micromol l(-1) for magainin II and phor14. An increase of nuclear membrane permeabilization was observed in fungal cells treated with cecropin B, but not with purothionin. Diffusion of nuclear content was observed by fluorescent microscopy 10 min after adding a lethal concentration of cecropin B. Evaluation by electron microscopy confirmed severe cytoplasmic degradation and plasma membrane vesiculation. Purothionin and cecropin B were the most stable against proteolytic degradation when added to liquid cultures of R. solani. Purothionin, cecropin B, D4E1 and phor21 were shown to exhibit high in vitro lytic activity against R. solani strain LR172 for rice and soyabean. These peptides are greater than 16 amino acids long and rapidly increase fungal membrane permeabilization. Resistance to proteolysis is important for sufficient antifungal activity of antimicrobial peptides. Selected antimicrobial peptides offer an attractive alternative to traditional chemicals that could be utilized in molecular breeding to develop crops resistant to rice sheath blight and aerial blight of soyabean.
15186492	In animals, steroid hormones regulate gene expression by binding to nuclear receptors. Plants lack genes for nuclear receptors, yet genetic evidence from Arabidopsis suggests developmental roles for lipids/sterols analogous to those in animals. In contrast to nuclear receptors, the lipid/sterol-binding StAR-related lipid transfer (START) protein domains are conserved, making them candidates for involvement in both animal and plant lipid/sterol signal transduction. We surveyed putative START domains from the genomes of Arabidopsis, rice, animals, protists and bacteria. START domains are more common in plants than in animals and in plants are primarily found within homeodomain (HD) transcription factors. The largest subfamily of HD-START proteins is characterized by an HD amino-terminal to a plant-specific leucine zipper with an internal loop, whereas in a smaller subfamily the HD precedes a classic leucine zipper. The START domains in plant HD-START proteins are not closely related to those of animals, implying collateral evolution to accommodate organism-specific lipids/sterols. Using crystal structures of mammalian START proteins, we show structural conservation of the mammalian phosphatidylcholine transfer protein (PCTP) START domain in plants, consistent with a common role in lipid transport and metabolism. We also describe putative START-domain proteins from bacteria and unicellular protists. The majority of START domains in plants belong to a novel class of putative lipid/sterol-binding transcription factors, the HD-START family, which is conserved across the plant kingdom. HD-START proteins are confined to plants, suggesting a mechanism by which lipid/sterol ligands can directly modulate transcription in plants.
15190366	One of the major environmental factors limiting plant productivity is lack of water. This is especially true for the major cereals maize, rice, and wheat, which demonstrate a range of susceptibility to moisture deficit. Although conventional breeding and marker-assisted selection are being used to develop varieties more tolerant to water stress, these methods are time and resource consuming and germplasm dependent. Genetic engineering is attractive because of its potential to improve abiotic stress tolerance more rapidly. Transcription factors have been shown to produce multiple phenotypic alterations, many of which are involved in stress responses. DREB1A, a transcription factor that recognizes dehydration response elements, has been shown in Arabidopsis thaliana to play a crucial role in promoting the expression of drought-tolerance genes. In our efforts to enhance drought tolerance in wheat, the A. thaliana DREB1A gene was placed under control of a stress-inducible promoter from the rd29A gene and transferred via biolistic transformation into bread wheat. Plants expressing the DREB1A gene demonstrated substantial resistance to water stress in comparison with checks under experimental greenhouse conditions, manifested by a 10-day delay in wilting when water was withheld.
15190378	The recent availability of the pseudochromosome sequences of rice allows for the first time the investigation of the extent of intra-genomic duplications on a large scale in this agronomically important species. Using a dot-matrix plotter as a tool to display pairwise comparisons of ordered predicted coding sequences along rice pseudochromosomes, we found that the rice genome contains extensive chromosomal duplications accounting for 53% of the available sequences. The size of duplicated blocks is considerably larger than previously reported. In the rice genome, a duplicated block size of >1 Mb appears to be the rule and not the exception. Comparative mapping has shown high genetic colinearity among chromosomes of cereals, promoting rice as a model for studying grass genomes. Further comparative genome analysis should allow the study of the conservation and evolution of these duplication events in other important cereals such as rye, barley, and wheat.
15191740	Larvicidal proteins encoded by cry genes from Bacillus thuringiensis were released in root exudates from transgenic B. thuringiensis corn, rice, and potato but not from B. thuringiensis canola, cotton, and tobacco. Nonsterile soil and sterile hydroponic solution in which B. thuringiensis corn, rice, or potato had been grown were immunologically positive for the presence of the Cry proteins; from B. thuringiensis corn and rice, the soil and solution were toxic to the larva of the tobacco hornworm (Manduca sexta), and from potato, to the larva of the Colorado potato beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata), representative lepidoptera and coleoptera, respectively. No toxin was detected immunologically or by larvicidal assay in soil or hydroponic solution in which B. thuringiensis canola, cotton, or tobacco, as well as all near-isogenic non-B. thuringiensis plant counterparts or no plants, had been grown. All plant species had the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter, except rice, which had the ubiquitin promoter from maize. The reasons for the differences between species in the exudation from roots of the toxins are not known. The released toxins persisted in soil as the result of their binding on surface-active particles (e.g. clay minerals, humic substances), which reduced their biodegradation. The release of the toxins in root exudates could enhance the control of target insect pests, constitute a hazard to nontarget organisms, and/or increase the selection of toxin-resistant target insects.
15194197	Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are scavenging enzymes that detoxify cellular xenobiotics and toxins by catalyzing the conjugation of these substrates with a tripeptide glutathione. GSTs are classified depending on gene organization and sequence similarity. The sequence analysis of genomic DNA for zeta class GST (GSTZ) locus in rice indicated that two homologous GSTZ genes lay in a tandem orientation with a short (0.4 kb) intergenic spacer. The upstream OsGSTZ1 and downstream OsGSTZ2 spanned 3.5 and 3.2 kb with nine coding exons, respectively. The transcript of OsGSTZ1 had a long 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) that was mostly encoded by a 10th noncoding exon, whereas OsGSTZ2 mRNA contained a long 5' UTR. Northern blot analysis showed that OsGSTZ1/2 messages were strongly expressed in leaf blades, while transcripts from roots were low level. Because OsGSTZ1/2 messages in leaf tissues were strongly induced only by water treatment, it was difficult to assay for the induction of OsGSTZ1/2 transcripts by various stress treatments. Thus, using rice culture cells, we analyzed the respective responses of OsGSTZ1 and OsGSTZ2 genes against various treatments by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The results showed that OsGSTZ1 was expressed at a level ca. 1000-fold higher than OsGSTZ2 in suspension cells without stress treatment. OsGSTZ1 was expressed constitutively under various stress conditions. In contrast, the expression of OsGSTZ2 gene was strongly enhanced to 30-fold by treatment with jasmonic acid. These observations suggested that the expression of OsGSTZ1 and OsGSTZ2 genes are differentially regulated in the culture cell of rice.
15195567	Water is becoming a restricted factor of agricultural development owing to the global shortage of water resources. Screening and improving drought tolerant rice cultivars would be helpful for increasing and stabilizing yield, economizing water and reducing environmental pollution. In this study, 127 rice lines of DII population derived from an indica variety Zhaiyeqing 8 (ZYQ8) and a japonica variety Jingxi 17 (JX17) were used to locate QTLs for leaf rolling, relative water content and rate of electric conductivity under drought stress. The results showed that significant differences between the parents were detected for all measured traits. The tremendous transgressive segregations for these traits were observed in the population. The frequency of all traits in the population was approximately normally distributed with slight skew. A total of six QTLs for the three traits were detected with molecular linkage map of 234 markers, including three QTLs (qLR-1, qLR-5 and qLR-11) for leaf rolling, two QTLs (qRWC-1 and qRWC-6) for relative water content and one QTL (qREC-6) for rate of electric conductivity. Visual measurement for leaf rolling can be used to screen a large number of rice germplasm resources or varieties, which is of importance to screening and utilization of drought tolerant rice varieties.
15195568	In order to study the expression pattern of rice glutelin endosperm specific promoter in Chinese cultivar Zhonghua 8 (Oryza sativa L. subsp japonica), UidA gene was fused with rice glutelin GluA-2 gene 5' upstream sequence 2.3 kb and 750 bp upstream respectively and transferred into rice by Agrobacterium mediated transformation. Southern blot indicated that UidA gene was integrated into the genome of transgenic plants as single copy. Northern blot demonstrated that the expression of UidA gene and endogenous GluA-2 gene reached their highest level at 13-15 days and 11-13 days after pollination respectively, and then declined. Histochemical staining of immature transgenic rice seeds showed UidA gene was specifically expressed in endosperm and the highest level GUS expression was observed in aleurone layer. Quantitative analysis of GUS activity showed seeds GUS activity of that 2.3 kb transgenic plant was about two to three folds of those of 750 bp transgenic plant. Sequence analysis suggested that the G-box located in the -2,170 bp (from transcription start site) may be a quantitative cis-element.
15195569	Rice stripe disease transmitted by small brown planthopper (Laodelphax striatellus Fall.) is one of the most serious viral diseases in East Asia. The disease is severely epidemic in most rice growing areas where the main cultivars are susceptible or moderately susceptible to rice stripe virus. In this research, a recombinant inbred lines (RILs) population of 81 lines derived from a cross of Kinmaze (japonica)/DV85(indica) by the single seed descent method was used to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) conferring resistance to rice stripe virus(RSV). The response of the two parents and 81 RILs to RSV were investigated by inoculating seedlings with viruliferous small brown planthopper insects, and scored by the disease rate index. The quantitative trait loci for rice stripe disease resistance were analyzed by QTL Cartographer software. Three QTL controlling RSV resistance were detected on chromosomes 1, 7 and 11, respectively. Individual QTL accounted for 19.8%-30.9% of the phenotypic variance in the RILs population. The direction of the additive gene effects at two loci qStv7 and qStv11 coincided with that predicted by phenotypes of the parents. At these two loci, the DV85 alleles increased the resistance to RSV, while at qStv1, the Kinmaze alleles increased the resistance to RSV.
15195818	In order to understand the factors causing variation of lead and cadmium accumulation in tissues of feral pigeons in Seoul and Ansan, Korea, we investigated their age, food items (crop and gizzard contents) as well as environmental factors such as soil, atmosphere, and local traffic density. The results indicate that concentrations of Pb and Cd were highly increased in the order of eggs < chicks < adults. In food analysis, supplementary foods (rice, small stones, domestic scraps, cements, hairs, Styrofoam, etc.) could be considered as factors considering the Pb concentration differences. Concentrations of Cd in foodstuffs, the proportion of crop contents as their major foods could have an influence on the difference of Cd levels from a nutritional viewpoint. The Pb levels in gizzard contents and soil had an effect on the tissue accumulations, these were associated with the volume of vehicular traffic. However, we could not find any differences of Cd concentrations in gizzard contents and soil, although there were significantly different Cd accumulations in target organs of adult pigeons between the study areas. The Pb and Cd levels in tissues did not correspond to atmospheric metal levels.
15196836	As part of a project on phytoextraction of lead (Pb) in paddy soils around a lead/zinc (Pb/Zn) Mine in Lechang of Guangdong Province, South China, the concentration distribution of Pb in paddy soil-rice system was investigated, and its potential health risk to animal/human was evaluated. Total and diethylenetetraminepentaacetic acid (DTPA)-extractable Pb in soils averaged 1486 and 268 microg/g, respectively. According to sequential extraction procedure, soil Pb occurred primarily in the residual, carbonate and exchangeable fractions (30.2%, 26.7% and 19.1%, respectively). Lead extracted by the gastric juice simulation test (GJST) was 1068 microg/g and accounted for 75.4% of the total concentration. Mean Pb concentrations of 419 microg/g in rice root, 69.1 microg/g in whole straw, 51.0 microg/g in part straw (without two leaves near above the root), 44.9 microg/g in stalk, 21.9 microg/g in hull, 13.2 microg/g in grain with hull and 4.67microg/g in grain without hull (namely, unpolished rice) were found. Lead concentrations in both soil and rice plant were far above the corresponding tolerable levels. Lead daily intakes by local residents were 2.6 mg for adults and 1.2 mg for children, which were much higher than the allowable level. Thus, Pb in this area might pose a potential health risk to the local population.
15196938	We report here the use of the mutual information theory for the certification of annotated rice coding sequences of both GenBank and TIGR databases. Considering coding sequences larger than 600 bp, we successfully screened out genes with aberrant compositional features. We found that they represent about 10% of both datasets after cleaning for gene redundancy. Most of the rejected accessions showed a different trend in GC3% vs GC2% plot compared to the set of accessions that have been published in international journals. This suggests the existence of a bias in the pattern recognition algorithms used by gene prediction programs.
15197268	We have generated transgenic rice plants expressing the Datura stramonium adc gene and investigated their response to drought stress. We monitored the steady-state mRNA levels of genes involved in polyamine biosynthesis (Datura adc, rice adc, and rice samdc) and polyamine levels. Wild-type plants responded to the onset of drought stress by increasing endogenous putrescine levels, but this was insufficient to trigger the conversion of putrescine into spermidine and spermine (the agents that are believed to protect plants under stress). In contrast, transgenic plants expressing Datura adc produced much higher levels of putrescine under stress, promoting spermidine and spermine synthesis and ultimately protecting the plants from drought. We demonstrate clearly that the manipulation of polyamine biosynthesis in plants can produce drought-tolerant germplasm, and we propose a model consistent with the role of polyamines in the protection of plants against abiotic stress.
15197579	Structural and functional relationships between the genomes of hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) (2n=6x=42) and rice (Oryza sativa L.) (2n=2x=24) were evaluated using linkage maps supplemented with simple sequence repeat (SSR) loci obtained from publicly available expressed sequence tags (ESTs). EST-SSR markers were developed using two main strategies to design primers for each gene: (1) primer design for multiple species based on supercluster analysis, and (2) species-specific primer design. Amplification was more consistent using the species-specific primer design for each gene. Forty-four percent of the primers designed specifically for wheat sequences were successful in amplifying DNA from both species. Existing genetic linkage maps were enhanced for the wheat and rice genomes using orthologous loci amplified with 58 EST-SSR markers obtained from both wheat and rice ESTs. The PCR-based anchor loci identified by these EST-SSR markers support previous patterns of conservation between wheat and rice genomes; however, there was a high frequency of interrupted colinearity. In addition, multiple loci amplified by these primers made the comparative analysis more difficult. Enhanced comparative maps of wheat and rice provide a useful tool for interpreting and transferring molecular, genetic, and breeding information between these two important species. These EST-SSR markers are particularly useful for constructing comparative framework maps for different species, because they amplify closely related genes to provide anchor points across species.
15198034	This work deals with the taxonomic study of 12 orange-pigmented bacteria isolated from permafrost sediments, rice plots, and soils contaminated with wastes from the chemical and salt industries, which were assigned to the genus Brevibacterium on the basis of phenotypic characteristics, as well as of some strains described previously as Brevibacterium linens. The study revealed three genomic species, whose members and the type strains of the closest species of Brevibacterium had DNA similarity levels between 24 and 59%. The strains of the genomic species differed from each other and from the known species of Brevibacterium in some physiological and biochemical characteristics, as well as in the sugar and polyol composition of their teichoic acids. The 16S rDNA sequence analysis confirmed the assignment of the environmental isolates to the genus Brevibacterium and showed the phylogenetic distinction of the three genomic species. The results obtained in this study allow three new Brevibacterium species to be described: Brevibacterium antiquum (type strain VKM Ac-2118T = UCM Ac-411T), Brevibacterium aurantiacum (type strain VKM Ac-2111T = NCDO 739T = ATCC 9175T), and Brevibacterium permense (type strain VKM Ac-2280T = UCM Ac-413T).
15198201	Cavendish banana was transformed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens to express a protein engineered rice cystatin (OcIdeltaD86) of value for control of plant parasitic nematodes. Expression for each line was under control of a constitutive promoter from the maize ubiquitin gene (UBI-1), a constitutive, chimeric promoter from the octopine and mannopine synthase genes of A. tumefaciens or a promoter from a root-preferentially expressed tubulin gene Arabidopsis (TUB-1). Lines were selected as of potential interest after 8 weeks challenge in containment if their mean R. similis/25 g roots for three sibling plants were more than 1 standard normal variate below the grand mean for all plants in c7-15 lines challenged concurrently. A total of 16 lines were selected on this basis as putative positives. Western blots confirmed that eight of these lines expressed cystatin with a mean of 0.08 +/- 0.04% tsp. All but two of 19 negatively selected lines from bioassays did not express cystatin. The mean resistance level of the confirmed positive lines was 69 +/- 17%. ELISA established the positive lines under control of UBI provided significantly higher expression levels of OcIdeltaD86 than recorded for the other two promoters. Lines of interest were confirmed as producing a transcript for OcIdeltaD86 by RT-PCR. Eight plants of one UBI promoter line expressing only 0.1 +/- 0.004% tsp as cystatin were re-challenged with R. similis and achieved a resistance of 70 +/- 10%. Subsequent repeat western blotting confirmed that this line still produced the cystatin after the trial. This is the first report of transgenic resistance against a major pest or disease of banana.
15198207	Transglutaminases have a range of catalytic activities, most of which concern the post-translational modification of proteins. The most important of these activities is the cross-linking of proteins into large supramolecular networks. The widespread use of transglutaminases has increased the demand for an inexpensive, efficient and safe source of recombinant enzyme. We explored the use of plant-based systems for the production of this important industrial enzyme. Transgenic rice plants engineered with a rat prostate transglutaminase (rTGp), driven by the strong constitutive maize-1 ubiquitin promoter and its first intron, were shown to express the recombinant enzyme at the mRNA and protein levels. The Ca2+ dependence of the recombinant enzyme was confirmed by the biotin-labelled cadaverine-incorporation assay. In this communication we report the molecular and biochemical characterisation of transgenic plants expressing rTGp and this sets the stage for establishing a bioreactor system for the production of transglutaminases in plants.
15198391	Three UEDMA/TEGDMA (50:50 by weight) based dental composites were made, each with filler loadings of 53 vol.%. The three composites contained silane-treated filler particles with average particle diameters of 1.5, 3.0, or 10.0 microm. Twelve specimens per composite were mounted on wear wheels and run through 200,000 cycles in an ACTA wear machine. Six of these specimens per material were worn in slurries consisting of 30 g ground Millet seed shells and 120 g ground rice mixed with 275 mL water. The remaining six specimens were worn in similar 25% ethanol-water slurries. The composite wear profiles were recorded with a profilometer and used to calculate the wear. Hardness values of the composites were also measured both before and after storage for 2 weeks in either water or in a 25% ethanol water solution. The wear and hardness values from the measurements were analyzed using ANOVA. The wear analysis showed that the finer composites (1.5 microm filler diameter) wore the least and the coarsest composites (10 microm filler diameter) the most. The wear was significantly higher in the ethanol water slurry than in the water slurry. The hardness value of the coarsest composite decreased more than the finest composite during storage in water or 25% ethanol water. The hardness decrease was most pronounced in the alcohol solution.
15199185	Plant metabolism is a complex set of processes that produce a wide diversity of foods, woods, and medicines. With the genome sequences of Arabidopsis and rice in hands, postgenomics studies integrating all "omics" sciences can depict precise pictures of a whole-cellular process. Here, we present, to our knowledge, the first report of investigation for gene-to-metabolite networks regulating sulfur and nitrogen nutrition and secondary metabolism in Arabidopsis, with integration of metabolomics and transcriptomics. Transcriptome and metabolome analyses were carried out, respectively, with DNA macroarray and several chemical analytical methods, including ultra high-resolution Fourier transform-ion cyclotron MS. Mathematical analyses, including principal component analysis and batch-learning self-organizing map analysis of transcriptome and metabolome data suggested the presence of general responses to sulfur and nitrogen deficiencies. In addition, specific responses to either sulfur or nitrogen deficiency were observed in several metabolic pathways: in particular, the genes and metabolites involved in glucosinolate metabolism were shown to be coordinately modulated. Understanding such gene-to-metabolite networks in primary and secondary metabolism through integration of transcriptomics and metabolomics can lead to identification of gene function and subsequent improvement of production of useful compounds in plants.
15200003
15200034	For the first time, triadimenol was used to determine nucleic acid (DNA) using the resonance light scattering (RLS) technique. The RLS of triadimenol was greatly enhanced by DNA in the range of pH 1.6 to approximately 1.9. A resonance light-scattering peak at 310 nm was found, and the enhanced intensity of RLS at this wavelength was proportional to the concentration of DNA. The linear range of the calibration curve was 0 to approximately 9 microg/ml with the detection limit of 24 ng ml(-1). The mechanism studies of the system indicated that the enhanced RLS is due to the aggregation of triadimenol on DNA. The nucleic acids in synthetic samples and in rice seedling extraction were analyzed with satisfactory results. Compared with other methods, this method is convenient, rapid, inexpensive and simple.
15200956	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 21-nucleotide RNAs, some of which have been shown to play important gene-regulatory roles during plant development. We developed comparative genomic approaches to systematically identify both miRNAs and their targets that are conserved in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa). Twenty-three miRNA candidates, representing seven newly identified gene families, were experimentally validated in Arabidopsis, bringing the total number of reported miRNA genes to 92, representing 22 families. Nineteen newly identified target candidates were confirmed by detecting mRNA fragments diagnostic of miRNA-directed cleavage in plants. Overall, plant miRNAs have a strong propensity to target genes controlling development, particularly those of transcription factors and F-box proteins. However, plant miRNAs have conserved regulatory functions extending beyond development, in that they also target superoxide dismutases, laccases, and ATP sulfurylases. The expression of miR395, the sulfurylase-targeting miRNA, increases upon sulfate starvation, showing that miRNAs can be induced by environmental stress.
15202503	The osRACD gene correlated with fertility transformation in the photoperiod sensitive genic male sterile rice (PGMR), Nongken 58S, encoded a rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) small GTPase belonging to the Rac/Rho family. Inverse PCR was performed to amplify a fragment about 1.4 kb in 5' upstream region of the osRACD promoter. Deletion mutation and gel mobility shift assay characterized two fragments (-799 to -686 nt, and -686 to -431 nt) in the osRACD promoter that could be involved in its transcriptional regulation. When these two deletion fragments were used as probe respectively, a retarded band appeared in the nuclear extracts of fertile 58S rice under short day (58S-SD). Whereas no retarded band was shown in the nuclear extracts of sterile 58S rice under long day (58S-LD). Competition assay indicated that the factors in the retarded bands binding to these two fragments were the same trans-acting factor (termed rice factor, RF). The binding affinity of RF was affected by phosphorylation and was higher in SD-growth rice than that of LD-growth rice.
15204537	Ochratoxin A is a mycotoxin produced mainly by Penicillium verrucosum and Aspergillus ochraceus. Although typically considered a cereal contaminant, it has also been detected in dried fruit, nuts, meat and derivatives. To estimate the quantity of ochratoxin A that might be ingested by Italian consumers from these foods, 211 cereal derivatives (flours and bakery products) were analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Products were from conventional and organic agriculture and from integrated pest management agriculture. All commercial flours and derivatives examined contained ochratoxin A at concentrations very much below the legal limit (3 microg kg(-1)): the highest value, 0.816 microg kg(-1), was detected in a sample of spelt whole flour from organic agriculture. In many samples, the ochratoxin content was below the limit of detection; only rarely did values exceed 0.5 microg kg(-1). In baby foods, four samples were above the particularly restrictive Italian legal limit of 0.5 microg kg(-1). Although some significant differences were found between samples from conventional and organic agriculture when some product categories were examined (namely, baby foods as semolina and rice creams), no important difference was found between the two types of agricultural practice when all types of cereal derivatives were considered together.
15204552	A radiotracer method was applied to the measurement of inorganic contaminants migrating into food. The method was applied to the study of 10 samples of recycled paper and board. The only elements detected in the static migration test were zinc and iron, at concentrations close to the detection limit. Samples of rice, oats, custard powder, mushrooms and fries showed that traces of these elements had migrated from the packaging. The migration was limited to less than 1%, with the exception of the mushrooms, where the decomposition of the food had resulted in a 12.5% transfer of zinc from the mushroom bag after 8 days, equivalent to migration of 0.022 mg dm(-2). Shaking had no effect on migration, except in one case of custard powder where migration occurred at a level equivalent to 0.002 mg dm(-2). The maximum migration determined in the present study was 4.8 microg zinc and 2.6 microg iron, which is negligible when compared with the recommended daily intakes of 15 and 14 mg, respectively. When Tenax was tested as a food simulant, no zinc was detected (< 0.001 mg dm(-2)), although slight migration (0.001 mg dm(-2)) occurred into food.
15206945	Little is known about the functions of DNA polymerase lambda (Pol lambda) recently identified in mammals. From the genomic sequence information of rice and Arabidopsis, we found that Pol lambda may be the only member of the X-family in higher plants. We have succeeded in isolating the cDNA and recombinant protein of Pol lambda in a higher plant, rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) (OsPol lambda). OsPol lambda had activities of DNA polymerase, terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase and deoxyribose phosphate lyase, a marker enzyme for base excision repair. It also interacted with rice proliferating cell nuclear antigen (OsPCNA) in a pull-down assay. OsPCNA increased the processivity of OsPol lambda. Northern blot analysis showed that the level of OsPol lambda expression correlated with cell proliferation in meristematic and meiotic tissues, and was induced by DNA-damaging treatments. These properties suggest that plant Pol lambda is a DNA repair enzyme which functions in plant meristematic and meiotic tissues, and that it can substitute for Pol beta and terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase.
15207026	Toxicity of chemicals and environmental pollutants may be expressed differently in women than in men. Until recently, most research involved men. With the initiation of studies on the effects of environmental pollutants in women, there is increasing evidence of effects at specific periods in a woman's life; however, accrual of data is slow. This review focuses on the kinetics and effects of the toxic metals lead and cadmium related to menopause. Data on other metals are extremely limited. One of the few well described examples of menopausal-related effects of metals is the very painful disease called Itai-itai, which is a combination of osteoporosis, osteomalacia and renal damage caused by consumption of cadmium-polluted rice. Recent data demonstrate mild effects of cadmium on both kidney and bone with present environmental exposure levels. Women may be at greater risk than men, because of increased gastrointestinal uptake of cadmium at low iron stores, which is common in women of childbearing age. Thus, improvement of iron status, which often occurs at menopause, has a positive effect on cadmium exposure in the sense that its absorption decreases. Cadmium accumulates in the kidney with a half-life of 10-30 years. The health effects appear around menopause, concurrent with the peak in renal cadmium concentrations. About 90% of body lead is localised to bone. There is a significant release of bone lead after the menopause, in association with the acceleration of bone resorption. Thus, postmenopausal women may be at increased risk of adverse effects of lead.
15207296	Agricultural lignocellulosic fiber (rice straw)-waste tire particle composite boards were manufactured for use as insulation boards in construction, using the same method as that used in the wood-based panel industry. The manufacturing parameters were: a specific gravity of 0.8 and a rice straw content (10/90, 20/80 and 30/70 by wt.% of rice straw/waste tire particle). A commercial polyurethane adhesive for rubber was used as the composite binder. The water proof, water absorption and thickness swelling properties of the composite boards were better than those of wood particleboard. Furthermore, the flexibility and flexural properties of the composite boards were superior to those of other wood-based panel products. The composite boards also demonstrated good acoustical insulation, electrical insulation, anti-caustic and anti-rot properties. These boards can be used to prevent impact damage, are easily modifiable and are inexpensive. They are able to be used as a substitute for insulation boards and other flexural materials in construction.
15207303	This work supports the idea that composting can be useful for minimizing the rice straw and sewage sludge environmental impact. Several physical, chemical and microbiological properties of these raw materials were analyzed. The characteristics of the rice straw were complementary to those of the sewage sludge for the application of composting. The C/N ratios suitable for a rapid increased in microbial activity were the lowest (17-24). A temperature of 62 degrees C during 48 h removed pathogenic microorganisms from rice straw and sewage sludge mixture. The results obtained in the present work suggested that these materials could be use in the composting process.
15207714	A single polypeptide with ddNTP-sensitive DNA polymerase activity was purified to near homogeneity from the shoot tips of rice seedlings and analysis of the preparations by SDS-PAGE followed by silver staining showed a polypeptide of 67 kDa size. The DNA polymerase activity was found to be inhibitory by ddNTP in both in vitro DNA polymerase activity assay and activity gel analysis. Aphidicolin, an inhibitor of other types of DNA polymerases, had no effect on plant enzyme. The 67 kDa rice DNA polymerase was found to be recognized by the polyclonal antibody (purified IgG) made against rat DNA polymerase beta (pol beta) both in solution and also on Western blot. The recognition was found to be very specific as the activity of Klenow enzyme was unaffected by the antibody. The ability of rice nuclear extract to correct G:U mismatch of oligo-duplex was observed when oligo-duplex with 32P-labeled lower strand containing U (at 22nd position) was used as substrate. Differential appearance of bands at 21-mer, 22-mer, and 51-mer position in presence of dCTP was visible only with G:U mismatch oligo-duplex, but not with G:C oligo-duplex. While ddCTP or polyclonal antibody against rat-DNA pol beta inhibits base excision repair (BER), aphidicolin had no effect. These results for the first time clearly demonstrate the ability of rice nuclear extract to run BER and the involvement of ddNTP-sensitive pol beta type DNA polymerase. Immunological similarity of the ddNTP-sensitive DNA polymerase beta of rice and rat and its involvement in BER revealed the conservation of structure and function of ddNTP-sensitive DNA pol beta in plant and animal.
15208337	With the genome sequence of Arabidopsis and rice now available, plant science has stepped forward into a new phase. Post-genomics studies such as transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics will bring about a breakthrough for the functional elucidation of genes and for an understanding of a whole process of living cells. Concerning studies of sulphur (S) metabolism, several reports have recently been published describing the transcript profiles of S-starved Arabidopsis. In this review, these -omics studies that have revealed the network linking several pathways related to jasmonic acid (JA), oxidative stress response, auxin, and flavonoid to S metabolic pathway are summarized.
15208343	The capability to utilize different forms of nitrogen (N) by sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), and pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) was determined in pot experiments. Seedlings were grown for 21 d without N, or with 500 mg N kg(-1) soil applied as ammonium nitrate, rice bran or a mixture of rice bran and straw. No treatment-dependent changes of root length, surface area, and fractal dimension were observed. Shoot growth and N uptake in maize and pearl millet correlated with the inorganic N (ammonium and nitrate) concentration in the soil, suggesting that these species depend upon inorganic N uptake. On the other hand, shoot growth and N uptake patterns in sorghum and rice indicated that these two species could compensate low inorganic N levels in the organic material treatments by taking up organic N (proteins). Analysis of N uptake rates in solution culture experiments confirmed that sorghum and rice roots have higher capabilities to absorb protein N than maize and pearl millet.
15208396	SEPALLATA (SEP) genes exhibit distinct patterns of expression and function in the grass species rice (Oryza sativa) and maize (Zea mays), suggesting that the role of the genes has changed during the evolution of the family. Here, we examine expression of the SEP-like gene LEAFY HULL STERILE1 (LHS1) in phylogenetically disparate grasses, reconstruct the pattern of gene expression evolution within the family, and then use the expression patterns to test hypotheses of gene function. Our data support a general role for LHS1 in specifying determinacy of the spikelet meristem and also in determining the identity of lemmas and paleas; these two functions are separable, as is the role of the gene in specifying floret meristems. We find no evidence that LHS1 determines flower number; it is strongly expressed in all spikelet meristems even as they are producing flowers, and expression is not correlated with eventual flower number. LHS1 expression in only the upper flowers of the spikelet appears to be the ancestral state; expression in all flowers is derived in subfamily Pooideae. LHS1 expression in pistils, stamens, and lodicules varies among the cereals. We hypothesize that LHS1 may have affected morphological diversification of grass inflorescences by mediating the expression of different floral identity genes in different regions of the floret and spikelet.
15208410	Although Arabidopsis is well established as the premiere model species in plant biology, rice (Oryza sativa) is moving up fast as the second-best model organism. In addition to the availability of large sets of genetic, molecular, and genomic resources, two features make rice attractive as a model species: it represents the taxonomically distinct monocots and is a crop species. Plant structural genomics was pioneered on a genome-scale in Arabidopsis and the lessons learned from these efforts were not lost on rice. Indeed, the sequence and annotation of the rice genome has been greatly accelerated by method improvements made in Arabidopsis. For example, the value of full-length cDNA clones and deep expressed sequence tag resources, obtained in Arabidopsis primarily after release of the complete genome, has been recognized by the rice genomics community. For rice >250,000 expressed sequence tags and 28,000 full-length cDNA sequences are available prior to the completion of the genome sequence. With respect to tools for Arabidopsis functional genomics, deep sequence-tagged lines, inexpensive spotted oligonucleotide arrays, and a near-complete whole genome Affymetrix array are publicly available. The development of similar functional genomics resources for rice is in progress that for the most part has been more streamlined based on lessons learned from Arabidopsis. Genomic resource development has been essential to set the stage for hypothesis-driven research, and Arabidopsis continues to provide paradigms for testing in rice to assess function across taxonomic divisions and in a crop species.
15208414
15208422	Data mining methods have been used to identify 356 Cyt P450 genes and 99 related pseudogenes in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome using sequence information available from both the indica and japonica strains. Because neither of these genomes is completely available, some genes have been identified in only one strain, and 28 genes remain incomplete. Comparison of these rice genes with the 246 P450 genes and 26 pseudogenes in the Arabidopsis genome has indicated that most of the known plant P450 families existed before the monocot-dicot divergence that occurred approximately 200 million years ago. Comparative analysis of P450s in the Pinus expressed sequence tag collections has identified P450 families that predated the separation of gymnosperms and flowering plants. Complete mapping of all available plant P450s onto the Deep Green consensus plant phylogeny highlights certain lineage-specific families maintained (CYP80 in Ranunculales) and lineage-specific families lost (CYP92 in Arabidopsis) in the course of evolution.
15208437	We previously reported a computational approach to infer alternative splicing patterns from Mus musculus full-length cDNA clones and microarray data. Although we predicted a large number of unreported splice variants, the general mechanisms regulating alternative splicing were yet unknown. In the present study, we compared alternative exons and constitutive exons in terms of splice-site strength and frequency of potential regulatory sequences. These regulatory features were further compared among five different species: Homo sapiens, M. musculus, Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, and Drosophila melanogaster. Solid statistical validations of our comparative analyses indicated that alternative exons have (1) weaker splice sites and (2) more potential regulatory sequences than constitutive exons. Based on our observations, we propose a combinatorial model of alternative splicing mechanisms, which suggests that alternative exons contain weak splice sites regulated alternatively by potential regulatory sequences on the exons.
15208452	Allele mining exploits the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence of one genotype to isolate useful alleles from related genotypes. The international project to sequence the genome of Oryza sativa L cv. Nipponbare will make allele mining possible for all genes of rice and possibly related cereals. We used a rice calmodulin gene, a rice gene encoding a late embryogenesis-associated protein, and salt-inducible rice gene to optimize the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for allele mining of stress tolerance genes on identified accessions of rice and related germplasm. Two sets of PCR primers were designed for each gene. Primers based on the 5' and 3' untranslated region of genes were found to be sufficiently conserved so as to be effective over the entire range of germplasm in rice for which the concept of allelism is applicable. However, the primers based on the adjacent amino (N) and carboxy (C) termini amplify additional loci.
15208996	To explore association between dietary factor and acute pancreatitis (AP) so as to provide scientific basis for prevention of AP through healthful diet and life-style. 100 AP patients were recruited from No. 1 Hospital affiliated to Sichuan University. Those participants in the control group 1 were from the same hospital, and those in the control group 2 were from a community. Controls were matched to cases for age (+/- 2.5) and sex. All of them were interviewed with uniform questionnaires. Conditional logistic regression was used for univariate and multivariate analysis. The statistic analysis indicated that AP was significantly associated with less physical activity (OR = 1.3566), obesity (OR = 3.1600), irregular eating (OR = 2.9547), engorgement after hunger (OR = 1.9603), oftentimes eating meat (OR = 1.9333), high animal oil consumption (OR = 1.5652). High rice and flour consumption (OR = 0.6724), Oftentimes drink milk (OR = 0.7154) and high milk consumption (OR = 0.4313), oftentimes eating laminavia lamx (OR = 0.5924) and green vegetable (OR = 0.3288) were inversely associated with AP. The study suggests that dietary factors may play an important role in AP.
15208998	Rats were fed by transgenic rice which expressed insecticidal protein CPTI (cowpea trypsin inhibitor) to study if the transgenic rice possessed potential toxic or adverse effects. Weanling Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: T, N and C group. The diet of T group contained 78.3% transgenic rice. The diet of N group contained 74.7% non transgenic rice which was the parent line of the transgenic one. The diet formula of C group was AIN93G. The macro- and micronutrient content were equal in three diets. The rats were fed for 90 days. Food intakes were weight every day, body-weight were weight and body-length were measured every week. In the middle and at the end of feeding period, haematological value and clinical chemistry parameters were measured, at the end of the 90th day, post-mortem organ coefficient were measured, organ tissues analysis was performed and bone density was measured. In most situation, there were no significant differences among the three groups(P > 0.05) and no histopathological damage were detected. At the end of the 1st month, the male rats' body length of the T group was longer than the other two groups and at the end of the test period, the male rats' blood glucose and ALT were lower than the other two groups. In the middle of the test period, the female rats' red blood cell number and hemoglobin were higher than the other two groups and at the end of the test period, the female rats' monocyte number was higher than the other two groups (P < 0.05). But all of the results were in the normal range which had been reported before. From the results of the 90 days feeding test of transgenic rice on rats there did not reveal any signs of toxic and adverse effects.
15209019	Tocotrienols is an isoform of tocopherols. Tocotrienols consists of a chromanol nucleus and a lipophilic isoprenoid chain. Tocotrienols were found in high concentrations in palm oil and rice bran. Its discovery was mainly antioxidant and resistant to lipid peroxidation. Tocotrienols influenced cholesterol synthesis by directly regulated activity of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductae (HMG CoA reductase) and decreased cholesterol. Important novel antiproliferative and neuroprotective effects have found. Molecular structure and biological function of tocotrienols were reviewed in this paper.
15211798	To observe the nutrition effects between transgenic rice and non-transgenic rice. Wistar rats were divided into three groups according to their sex respectively: transgenic rice group, non-transgenic rice group and AIN93G normal control group. They were fed with corresponding food for 28 days. Indicator as follows: food intake, protein effective ratio, body weight, body length, blood routine test, blood biochemistry test, organ index and bone density. In male groups, expect that liver/body ratio was higher in transgenic rice group than that in non-transgenic rice group, all other indicators had no significant difference each other. In female groups, liver/body weight ratio, blood calcium and bone density were higher in transgenic group than those in non-transgenic group. All other indicators had no significant difference between transgenic rice group and non-transgenic rice group. Body weight, bone density and blood calcium were higher and liver/body weight ratio had no significant difference in transgenic rice group than those in AIN93G group. Transgenic rice had good nutrition effects on rat development and no toxicity and adverse effects were found in transgenic rice group.
15212448	Procedures were developed for the simultaneous determination of glyphosate [N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine] and glufosinate [dl-homoalanin-4-yl-(methyl)phosphinic acid] and their major metabolites, aminomethylphosphonic acid (AMPA) and 3-(methylphosphinico)propionic acid (3-MPPA), in rice and soybean sprouts by gas chromatography (GC) equipped with a pulsed flame photometric detector (PFPD). Herbicides and their major metabolites were previously derivatized with TMOA (trimethyl orthoacetate (TMOA) in the presence of acetic acid, and their GC responses versus heating temperature (70-90 degrees C) and heating time (30-120 min) were optimized. It was found that increases in heating temperature and heating time were unfavorable for the derivatization of glyphosate or glufosinate, whereas high temperature and extended reaction time remarkably facilitated that of AMPA and 3-MPPA except at 90 degrees C for an extended reaction time (120 min). Combination of AG1-X8 anion-exchange chromatography with a Florisil cartridge cleanup process was favorable for the GC-PFPD analysis. Four types of derivatives spiked in rice and soybean sprout matrices were eluted, reaching a baseline separation, in a sequence of 3-MPPA, AMPA, glyphosate, and glufosinate within 14 min using a DB-608 capillary column. Recoveries of glyphosate, AMPA, glufosinate, and 3-MPPA (0.5 ppm) spiked in both sample matrices were determined to be 72-81, 71-86, 101-119, and 83-90%, respectively, whereas the coefficient of variation was determined to be <10% in three repeated determinations. The instrumental limits of detection for glyphosate, AMPA, glufosinate, and 3-MPPA in sample matrices were 0.02, 0.03, 0.02, and 0.01 ppm, respectively. The limits of quantification for glyphosate, AMPA, glufosinate, and 3-MPPA in sample matrices were 0.06, 0.10, 0.06, and 0.04 ppm, respectively.
15213809	Morphologically normal, fertile transgenic plants were obtained by co-culturing embryogenic calli of the Bangladeshi Indica rice cultivars BR26 and Binni with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 carrying the super binary vector pTOK233. Acetosyringone (100 microM) in the medium during co-culture (25-28 degrees C) and selection on hygromycin B (50 mg l(-1)) were essential for efficient transformation. Stable integration and expression of beta-glucuronidase, neomycin phosphotransferase and hygromycin phosphotransferase genes in regenerated plants were confirmed by histochemical and fluorometric assays, ELISA and Southern analysis. Two to 3 copies of T-DNA were integrated into regenerated plants; transgene expression did not correlate with gene copy number. Mendelian segregation of transgenes occurred in T1 seed progeny.
15214	pH-Induced helix-random coil transitions in random copolymers of Ala with Glu have been investigated in order to determine the effect of Ala on the stability of the helical state of polyglutamic acid. The free energies for the transfer of one uncharged Glu residue from a random coil to a helix (deltaGo) have been determined from potentiometric titration curves by the method of Zimm and Rice. It has been shown that the introduction of Ala hampers the transfer of a Glu residue from a random coil to a helix (reduces -deltaGo), although Ala itself is a helix-forming residue, i.e., its free energy decreases during helix formation. This has suggested that its introduction weakens the helix-stabilizing interactions between the uncharged Glu residues (apparently hydrogen bonds). The evaluation of the intrinsic helix-random coil equilibrium constant s for uncharged Glu residues with consideration of this situation yields a value which is smaller than the value of s for (Glu)n and in good agreement with the theoretical values.
15215322	We obtained 32K full-length cDNA sequence data from the rice full-length cDNA project and performed a homology search against NCBI GenBank data. We have also searched homologs of Arabidopsis and other plants' genes with the databases. Comparative analysis of calcium ion transport proteins revealed that the genes specific for muscle and nerve calcium signal transduction systems (VDCC, IP3 receptor, ryanodine receptor) are very different in animals and plants. In contrast, Ca elements with basic functions in cell responses (CNGC, iGlu receptor, Ca(2+)ATPase, Ca2+/Na(+)-K+ ion exchanger) are basically conserved between plants and animals. We also performed comparative analyses of calcium ion binding and/or controlling signal transduction proteins. Many genes specific for muscle and nerve tissue do not exist in plants. However, calcium ion signal transduction genes of basic functions of cell homeostasis and responses were well conserved; plants have developed a calcium ion interacting system that is more direct than in animals. Many species of plants have specifically modified calcium ion binding proteins (CPK, CRK), Ca2+/phospholipid-binding domains, and calcium storage proteins.
15215503	Calreticulin (CRT), a major Ca2+ -sequestering protein, has been implicated in a variety of cellular functions such as Ca2+ storage, signaling and chaperone activity within the cytoplasm and endoplasmic reticulum. To investigate the biological role of CRT in rice, 21 partial cDNAs, encoding proteins that interacted with rice CRT in a yeast two-hybrid interaction-cloning system, were characterized and the nucleotide sequences were found to be identical to each other. A full-length cDNA of 3.5 kb, obtained from rice genomic sequence data and 5' RACE, codes for a novel protein of 966 amino acid residues and was designated as CRTintP (CRT interacting protein). Primary sequence analysis of CRTintP showed no sequence homology with the known functional proteins; however, a potential ubiquitin-like domain at the N-terminal together with a putative leucine zipper, a nuclear localization signal and several sites for serine/threonine kinases were evident. Cellular localization of CRTintP demonstrated its role in directing green fluorescent protein to the nucleus in onion epidermal cells. Northern and immunoblot analysis showed increased expression of CRT and CRTintP in response to cold stress. Co-immunoprecipitation using anti-CRT antibodies confirmed the existence of the CRT-CRTintP complex in vivo in the stressed leaf tissue, suggesting their potential role in regulating stress response.
15215504	Cytosolic free Ca2+ serves as an important second messenger participating in signal transduction of various environmental stresses. However, molecular bases for the plasma membrane Ca2+ influx and its regulation remain largely unknown. We here identified a gene (OsTPC1) encoding a putative voltage-gated Ca2+ channel from rice, ubiquitously expressed in mature leaves, shoots and roots as well as in cultured cells. OsTPC1 rescued the Ca2+ uptake activity and growth rate of a yeast mutant cch1. To elucidate its physiological roles, we generated transgenic rice plants and cultured cells overexpressing OsTPC1 mRNA. Furthermore, a retrotransposon (Tos17) insertional knockout mutant of OsTPC1 was isolated. OsTPC1-overexpressing cells showed hypersensitivity to excess Ca2+ but higher growth rate under Ca2+ limitation, while growth of the OsTPC1-knockout cultured cells was less sensitive to extracellular free Ca2+ concentration, suggesting that OsTPC1 has Ca2+ transport activity across the plasma membrane. OsTPC1-overexpressing plants showed reduced growth and abnormal greening of roots. Growth of Ostpc1 seedlings was comparable to the control on agar plates, while significantly reduced in adult plants. These results suggest that OsTPC1 functions as a Ca2+ -permeable channel involved in the regulation of growth and development.
15215580	The Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system was extended to a famous Javanica rice variety, Rojolele, that is cultivated in Indonesia now. Efficient callus induction from immature and mature seeds of Rojolele did not succeed by any previous method for any rice cultivar. In this study, the callus from mature seeds of Rojolele exhibited a compact and nodular appearance on C medium after the carbon source and medium pH was modified. Scutellum-derived calli from mature seeds were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains EHA101 or LBA4404 that carried plasmid pAFT14, which contained the genes for beta-glucuronidase (gus) and hygromycin resistance (hpt). Finally, the transformation efficiency of Rojolele variety using A. tumefaciens strain EHA101 (pAFT14) was improved to about 23%, similar to that of the Japonica rice variety Nipponbare. The seed fertility of transgenic Rojolele was more than 90%. The copy number of the transgene varied from one to three copies in the T(0) transgenic lines. Both the gus and the hpt genes were inherited and expressed in the progeny.
15215597	Rice is most chilling sensitive at the onset of microspore release. Chilling treatment at this stage causes male sterility. The gene expression profile during the microspore development process under chilling stress was revealed using a microarray that included 8,987 rice cDNAs. As many as 160 cDNAs were up- or down-regulated by chilling during the microspore release stage. RT-PCR analysis of 5 genes confirmed the microarray results. We identified 3 novel genes whose expression levels were remarkably changed by chilling in rice anther. A new cis element that includes a DNA transposon Castaway sequence was found in the 5' upstream region of two genes which were conspicuously down-regulated by chilling temperatures in rice anther.
15215834
15215835
15216999	The objective of this experiment was to determine the effects of age and diet on serum chemistry, hematology, and nutrient digestibility in healthy dogs. Twelve senior (11 yr old; six males and six females) and 12 weanling (age = 8 wk old; six males and six females) beagles were randomly assigned to one of two dietary treatments: 1) an animal product-based (APB) diet or 2) a plant product-based (PPB) diet. The APB diet was primarily composed of brewer's rice, chicken by-product meal, and poultry fat, whereas the primary ingredients of the PPB diet included corn, soybean meal, wheat middlings, and meat and bone meal. Dogs remained on experiment for 12 mo. A 4-d total fecal collection was performed to determine apparent macronutrient digestibilities after 3 and 10 mo. Blood samples were collected at baseline and after 3, 6, 9, and 12 mo on study. After 3 mo, dogs fed the APB diet had greater (P < 0.001) DM (6 percentage units) and OM (7 percentage units) digestibilities than dogs fed the PPB diet. Senior dogs had greater DM (2.5 percentage units; P = 0.07) and OM (3 percentage units; P < 0.01) digestibilities than young dogs. Dogs fed the PPB diet had a lower (P < 0.001) fecal DM percentage (7.5 percentage units) and greater (P < 0.001) fecal output (253 vs. 97 g/d, as-is basis). After 10 mo, age did not affect nutrient digestibility or fecal characteristics. However, the effect of diet after 10 mo was similar to that observed after 3 mo, as dogs fed the PPB diet had a lower (P < 0.001) fecal DM percentage (7 percentage units), lower OM (4 percentage units; P = 0.09) and fat (6 percentage units; P < 0.001) digestibilities, and greater (P < 0.005) fecal output (235 vs. 108 g/d, as-is basis). At baseline, most serum metabolites were different between age groups, with weanlings having several metabolite concentrations outside the reference ranges for adult dogs. Blood cholesterol, red blood cells, hemoglobin, hematocrit, creatinine, total protein, albumin, bilirubin, sodium, chloride, and alanine transaminase were present in greater (P < 0.05) concentrations in senior dogs, but weanling dogs had greater (P < 0.05) concentrations of glucose, platelets, Ca, P, K, and alkaline phosphatase. Over time, blood cholesterol concentrations were affected by age (P < 0.05) and diet (P < 0.01). Senior dogs had greater (P < 0.05) cholesterol concentrations than weanling dogs. Moreover, dogs fed the APB diet had greater (P < 0.05) cholesterol concentrations than dogs fed the PPB diet. Overall, although serum metabolite concentrations of weanlings were different from senior dogs at baseline, as weanlings matured into young adults, metabolite concentrations were similar to those of senior dogs. Diet had the largest effects on nutrient digestibilities and fecal characteristics. Canine age and diet must be considered when interpreting experimental and clinical data.
15217003	Availability of phytate-bound P as influenced by supplemental phytase was studied in eight horses consuming four diets in a 4 x 4 Latin square design experiment. The treatments were a control (containing a low P level, 18.4 g/d) and three high-P diets. These diets contained P as monocalcium phosphate (MCP; 43.7 g/d), myoinositol hexakisphosphate in the form of wheat and rice bran (MIHP; 41.8 g/d), or MIHP with microbial phytase (MIHPP; 42.5 g/d). The proportions of phytate-bound P were 3, 1, 55, and 56% for the control, MCP, MIHP, and MIHPP, respectively. The MIHPP diet was supplemented with 300 phytase units (FTU)/kg (as-fed basis). Feces and urine were collected quantitatively and analyzed for P, Ca, and Mg. Urinary P excretion was lower (P < 0.05) with the control diet (0 g of P/d) than with the MCP diet (1.0 g of P/d). The low urinary P excretion (0.3 g of P/d) for the MIHP diet suggested low P availability compared with the MCP diet, but apparent digestibility of P expressed as a percentage of intake did not differ (P = 0.065) between these diets. Apparent Ca digestibility was lower (P < 0.05) for the MIHP diet than for the MCP diet (26.4 vs. 42.4%). This difference may have been caused by the origin of the Ca in these diets. Phytase supplementation increased apparent Ca digestibility from 26.4 to 31.5% (P < 0.05). Magnesium was not influenced by the level of phytate in the diet. Our data indicate that phytase supplementation had more influence on Ca digestibility than on P digestibility and suggest that phytase supplementation may be beneficial for improving Ca digestibility for horses receiving a phytate-rich diet.
15217739	Iodine deficiency diseases (IDD) are a public health problem in many developing countries, such as Cameroon. They are often the consequence of insufficient iodine intake and/or the effect of thiocyanate in foods such as cassava; this chemical inhibits iodine fixation by the thyroid gland. One method of combatting these diseases is to counsel and encourage the consumptions of iodine-rich foods. We accordingly undertook an evaluation of the iodine content of staple foods, the soil, and the salt in some zones of western Cameroon and in the capital. Food (63), salt (04) and soil (05) samples were collected in four villages of western Cameroon, and food (20), water (18) and salt samples (14) were collected in Yaoundé (central province). Iodine content in foods and soils was assessed by the catalytic destructive testing of thiocyanate by nitrate in the presence of iodine. Iodine content in water was determined colorimetrically after mineralization and in salt by volumetric methods. Results show that iodine levels in salt depend on its origin, but was much lower than the 50-100 ppm recommended by the WHO. Soil and water levels depended on the stream and the origin. Several of the more than 20 foods sampled from Yaoundé had iodine concentrations higher than 10 microg/100 g: plantain (22.5 microg/100 g), wheat flour (21 microg/100 g), corn flour (17.75 microg/100 g), groundnuts (12.5 microg/100 g), sweet potatoes (12.25 microg/100 g), zoom (11.34 microg/100 g) and rice (10.45 microg /100 g). In western villages, we noted that iodine levels in food crops depended on the soil levels. Nevertheless, it was high in cocoyam (79.5 microg/100 g), yarns (68 microg/100 g), potatoes (62 microg/100 g), plantains (58.15 microg/100 g), and red beans (53.93 microg/100 g). In general, these crops contain more iodine than the food in Yaoundé; these results can be used to combat IDD, especially among young children, teenagers and pregnant women.
15218376	CHO-320 cells, cultivated in suspension in a protein-free medium supplemented with rice protein hydrolysates (peptones), secrete recombinant interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) that undergo will or will not proteolysis, depending on the origin of the peptones. This proteolytic event, as well as the appearance of an unidentified 70 kDa gelatinase-like protease, are attributed to a cysteine protease. Casein zymographies revealed that one rice protein hydrolysate, but not another, contains a papain-like cysteine protease whose activity is undetectable in solution. This work underlines the significance of the origin of peptones when considered as supplements in serum- and protein-free media for overproduction of recombinant proteins.
15218913	Mosquitoes known to be involved in the transmission of Japanese encephalitis virus (JE) on Taiwan typically develop in rice fields. However, recent serological evidence indicated that JE virus was being transmitted on Liu-Chiu, a rice-free islet. To identify the mosquito vector in this unusual epidemiological situation, 4 mosquito species commonly found in Liu-Chiu were evaluated for their vector competence for a strain of JE (CH1392) virus isolated from central Taiwan. Armigeres subalbatus (Coquillett) was the most susceptible species, indicating its status as a potential vector. In addition, an isolate of JE (T1P1) virus from Ar. subalbatus collected on Liu-Chiu readily infected the salivary glands of orally infected Ar. subalbatus originating from Liu-Chiu. The infection rate reached 79% (11/14) after a 20-d period of extrinsic incubation at 28 degrees C. We conclude that JE likely was transmitted between vertebrate hosts by Ar. subalbatus in this rice-free islet and that this species should be considered as a potential vector in similar ecological conditions.
15219400	Stem borer resistant transgenic parental lines, involved in hybrid rice, were produced by Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer method. Two pSB111 super-binary vectors containing modified cry1Ab/cry1Ac genes driven by maize ubiquitin promoter, and herbicide resistance gene bar driven by cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were, used in this study. Embryogenic calli after co-cultivation with Agrobacterium were selected on the medium containing phosphinothricin. Southern blot analyses of primary transformants revealed the stable integration of bar, cry1Ab and cry1Ac coding sequences into the genomes of three parental lines with a predominant single copy integration and without any rearrangement of T-DNA. T1 progeny plants disclosed a monogenic pattern (3:1) of transgene segregation as confirmed by molecular analyses. Furthermore, the co-segregation of bar and cry genes in T1 progenies suggested that the transgenes are integrated at a single site in the rice genome. In different primary transformants with alien inbuilt resistance, the levels of cry proteins varied between 0.03 and 0.13% of total soluble proteins. These transgenic lines expressing insecticidal proteins afforded substantial resistance against stem borers. This is the first report of its kind dealing with the introduction of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) cry genes into the elite parental lines involved in the development of hybrid rice.
15219563	Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis is induced upon a series of recognition events involving the reorganization of both plant and fungal cellular programs culminating in the formation of appressoria on the epidermal root cells. In this work we monitored for the first time the genetic changes occurring in the fungal partner during early appressorium development. We established an in vitro system of Glomus mosseae and Petroselinum crispum for studying appressorium formation and found that after 120 h first appressoria developed in the root epidermis. We have constructed a fungal subtractive suppressive library enriched in genes up-regulated at this stage. Our aim was to identify early signaling events during plant recognition leading to appressoria formation. The library contains 375 clones with an average size of 500 bp. From these, 200 clones were sequenced and most of them represent gene fragments with no known homologues (63%) and therefore putative new genes specific to the mycorrhiza symbiosis. Reverse-Northern blot and RT-PCR analyses confirmed that ca. 30% of the genes present in the library were up-regulated upon plant induction after 120 h. Among the genes with homologues in other organisms we found several genes common to other plant-microbe interactions including some genes related to Ca2+-dependent signaling. The up-regulation of these genes opens the possibility that Ca2+ plays a role in the early stages of mycorrhiza formation as it has been found in other plant-microbe interactions such as the Rhizobium symbiosis or the Magnaporthe grisea/rice pathogenic interaction.
15220467	Metallothioneins are small, ubiquitous Cys-rich proteins known to be involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging and metal homeostasis. We found that the expression of a metallothionein gene (OsMT2b) was synergically down-regulated by OsRac1 and rice (Oryza sativa) blast-derived elicitors. Transgenic plants overexpressing OsMT2b showed increased susceptibility to bacterial blight and blast fungus. OsMT2b-overexpressing cells showed reduced elicitor-induced hydrogen peroxide production. In contrast, homozygous OsMT2b::Tos17-inserted mutant and OsMT2b-RNAi-silenced transgenic cells showed significantly higher elicitor-induced hydrogen peroxide production than the wild-type cells. In vitro assay showed that recombinant OsMT2b protein possessed superoxide- and hydroxyl radical-scavenging activities. Taken together, these results showed that OsMT2b is an ROS scavenger and its expression is down-regulated by OsRac1, thus potentiating ROS, which function as signals in resistance response. The results suggest that OsRac1 plays a dual role as an inducer of ROS production and a suppressor of ROS scavenging.
15221143	Morphogenetic processes in sequentially growing leaves and tiller buds are highly synchronized in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Consequently, the appearance of successive leaves in the main tiller acts as the "pacemaker" for the whole shoot system development. The time interval between the appearance of successive leaves (days/leaf) in the main tiller is called the 'phyllochron'. The objectives of the investigation reported here were: (1) to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that control rice phyllochron and (2) to understand the roles of phyllochron QTLs as an underlying developmental factor for rice tillering. For this purpose we developed a set of recombinant inbred lines derived from a cross between IR36 (indica) and Genjah Wangkal (tropical japonica). Composite interval mapping detected three phyllochron QTLs located on chromosomes 4, 10 and 11, where the presence of a Genjah Wangkal allele increased phyllochron. The largest QTL (on chromosome 4) was located on the genomic region syntenic to the vicinity of the maize Teopod 2 mutation, while the QTL on chromosome 10 was close to the rice plastochron 1 mutation. These three phyllochron QTLs failed to coincide with major tiller number QTLs. However, one tiller number QTL was associated with small LOD peaks for phyllochron and tiller-bud dormancy that were linked in coupling phase, suggesting that linked small effects of phyllochron and tiller-bud dormancy might result in a multiplicative effect on tiller number.
15221221	Fructosyl transferase (FTase) production by Aspergillus oryzae CFR 202 was carried out by solid-state fermentation (SSF), using various agricultural by-products like cereal bran, corn products, sugarcane bagasse,cassava bagasse (tippi) and by-products of coffee and tea processing. The FTase produced was used for the production of fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS), using 60% sucrose as substrate. Among the cereal bran used, rice bran and wheat bran were good substrates for FTase production by A. oryzae CFR 202. Among the various corn products used, corn germ supported maximum FTase production, whereas among the by-products of coffee and tea processing used, spent coffee and spent tea were good substrates, with supplementation of yeast extract and complete synthetic media. FTase had maximum activity at 60 degrees C and pH 6.0. FTase was stable up to 40 degrees C and in the pH range 5.0-7.0. Maximum FOS production was obtained with FTase after 8 h of reaction with 60% sucrose. FTase produced by SSF using wheat bran was purified 107-fold by ammonium sulphate precipitation (30-80%), DEAE cellulose chromatography and Sephadex G-200 chromatography. The molecular mass of the purified FTase was 116.3 kDa by SDS-PAGE. This study indicates the potential for the use of agricultural by-products for the efficient production of FTase enzyme by A. oryzae CFR 202 in SSF, thereby resulting in value addition of those by-products.
15221451	We have developed 85 new markers (50 RFLPs, 5 SSRs, 12 DD cDNAs, 9 ESTs, 8 HSP-encoding cDNAs and one BSA-derived AFLP marker) for saturation mapping of QTL regions for drought tolerance in rice, in our efforts to identify putative candidate genes. Thirteen of the markers were localized in the close vicinity of the targeted QTL regions. Fifteen of the additional markers mapped, respectively, inside one QTL region controlling osmotic adjustment on chromosome 3 (oa3.1) and 14 regions that affect root traits on chromosomes 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 12. Differential display was used to identify more putative candidate genes and to saturate the QTL regions of the genetic map. Eleven of the isolated cDNA clones were found to be derived from drought-inducible genes. Two of them were unique and did not match any genes in the GenBank, while nine were highly similar to cDNAs encoding known proteins, including a DnaJ-related protein, a zinc-finger protein, a protease inhibitor, a glutathione-S-transferase, a DNA recombinase, and a protease. Twelve new cDNA fragments were mapped onto the genetic linkage map; seven of these mapped inside, or in close proximity to, the targeted QTL regions determining root thickness and osmotic adjustment capacity. The gene I12A1, which codes for a UDP-glucose 4-epimerase homolog, was identified as a putative target gene within the prt7.1/brt7.1 QTL region, as it is involved in the cell wall biogenesis pathway and hence may be implicated in modulating the ability of rice roots to penetrate further into the substratum when exposed to drought conditions. RNAs encoding elongation factor 1beta, a DnaJ-related protein, and a homolog of wheat zinc-finger protein were more prominently induced in the leaves of IR62266 (the lowland rice parent of the mapping materials used) than in those of CT9993 (the upland rice parent) under drought conditions. Homologs of 18S ribosomal RNA, and mRNAs for a multiple-stress induced zinc-finger protein, a protease inhibitor, and a glutathione-S-transferase were expressed at significantly higher levels in CT9993 than in IR62266. Thus several genes involved in the regulation of DNA structure and mRNA translation were found to be drought-regulated, and may be implicated in drought resistance.
15221455	To develop an efficient means of enhancer trapping, a two-element system employing Ds and an Ac transposase (AcTPase) gene was tested in rice. We generated 263 transgenic rice plants, each of which harboured the maize transposable element Ds together with a GUS coding sequence under the control of a minimal promoter (Ds-GUS), and a gene that confers resistance to the herbicide chlorsulfuron. Among the 263 lines generated, 42 were shown to have a single copy of the Ds-GUS element. Four single-copy lines were crossed with each of six transgenic plants that carried the AcTPase gene. Excision of the Ds-GUS in leaves of F1 plants was detected in eight combinations out of seventeen examined. The frequency of transposition of Ds-GUS in germ cells in the F1 plants was examined using 10,524 F2 plants, and 675 (6%) were judged to be transposants. Their frequencies differed among F1 plants depending on the AcTPase x Ds-GUS cross considered, and also among panicles on the same F1 plant. This suggests that Ds-GUS tends to transpose during panicle development. Southern analysis with a GUS probe showed different band patterns among transposants derived from different panicles. Therefore, the transposants derived from different panicles must have arisen independently. Transposants showing tissue-specific GUS activities were obtained, and enhancers thus trapped by the Ds-GUS element were identified. These results demonstrate that the system is suitable for the isolation of large numbers of independent Ds-GUS transposants, and for the identification of various tissue-specific enhancers. The Ds-GUS lines generated in this study offer a potentially powerful tool for studies on the functional genomics of rice.
15221744	Male reproductive development in rice (Oryza sativa Linnaeus is very sensitive to various forms of environmental stresses including low temperature. Here, we present our findings on the proteomic analysis of the later developmental consequences of low temperature treatment on rice anthers. Anther proteins at the trinucleate stage, with or without cold treatment for four days at 12 degrees C at the young microspore stage, were extracted, separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and compared. More than 3000 rice anther proteins of cold-sensitive cultivar Doongara plants at the trinucleate stage were resolved on 2-DE gels over a pH range of 4-7 and detected by silver-staining. Seventy protein spots were differentially displayed after four days of cold treatment at the young microspore stage. Of these, 12 protein spots were newly-induced, 47 were up-regulated, and 11 were down-regulated by cold treatment at the early microspore stage. We identified 18 by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry time of flight (MALDI-TOF) analysis. Of the identified proteins, seven were observed as breakdown (cleavage) products by a combination of 2-DE and MALDI-TOF analysis, thus demonstrating for the first time that cold temperature stress at the young microspore stage enhances and induces partial degradation of proteins in the rice anthers at the trinucleate stage.
15221747	Sample preparation is crucial for extraction and higher resolution of proteins by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE). In this study, we present an efficient protocol to extract proteins from mature rice leaves by minimizing the presence of nonprotein contaminants and by maximizing contact between the sample and extraction buffer. A combination of chemical and physical processes remarkably improved protein extraction for 2-DE. The efficiency of this protocol was demonstrated by comparison of the rice proteome at two developmental stages.
15221766	Proteomic approach is applied for the analysis of seed brans of 14 rice varieties (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica) which can classify to five aromatic rice and nine nonaromatic rice. The two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) protein patterns for 14 rice varieties were similar within pH ranges of 3-10 and 4-7. To characterize aromatic group-specific proteins, we compared 2-D gels of aromatic rice to nonaromatic rice using PDQUEST image analysis. Four out of six differential spots were identified as hypothetical proteins, but one (SSP 7003) was identified by matrix assisted laser desoption/ionization-quardrupole-time of fight (MALDI-Q-TOF) as prolamin with three matching peptides based on NCBI database. Prolamin is a class of storage proteins with three different polypeptides of 10, 13, and 16 kDa. Spot SSP7003 was identified as a 13 kDa polypeptide of prolamin by combination of mass spectroscopy and N-terminal sequence analyses. In contrast, one sulfur-rich 16 kDa polypeptide of prolamin was found in extremely high intensity in brans of deep-water rice compared to nondeep-water rice. Our results suggest that proteomics is a powerful step to open the way for the identification of rice varieties.
15221768	To examine the response of rice to salt stress, changes in protein expression were analyzed using a proteomic approach. To investigate dose- and time-dependent responses, rice seedlings were exposed to 50, 100 and 150 mM NaCl for 6 to 48 h. Proteins were extracted from leaf sheath and separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Eight proteins showed 1- to 3-fold up-regulation in leaf sheath, in response to 50 mM NaCl for 24 h. Among these, three proteins were unidentified (LSY081, LSY262 and LSY363) while five proteins were identified as fructose bisphosphate aldolases, photosystem II (PSII) oxygen evolving complex protein, oxygen evolving enhancer protein 2 (OEE2) and superoxide dismutase (SOD). The maximum expression levels of seven proteins were at 24 h. Their expression declined after 48 h of 50 mM NaCl treatment. In contrast, SOD maintained its elevated expression throughout these conditions. The increased expression of proteins seen in the 50 mM NaCl treatment group was less pronounced in the groups receiving 100 or 150 mM NaCl for 24 h. The expression of SOD was a common response to cold, drought, salt and abscisic acid (ABA) stresses while the expression of LSY081, LSY363 and OEE2 was enhanced by salt and ABA stresses. LSY262 was expressed in leaf sheath and root, while fructose bisphosphate aldolases, PSII oxygen evolving complex protein and OEE2 were expressed in leaf sheath and leaf blade. LSY363 was expressed in leaf sheath but was below the level of detection in leaf blade and root. These results indicate that specific proteins expressed in specific regions of rice show a coordinated response to salt stress.
15222337
15222377
15222487	Iron deficiency and diarrhea are two of the most significant issues for global health. Iron deficiency anemia is the most common nutritional deficiency in the world, affecting nearly 25% of the world population (UNICEF/WHO 1999). The prevalence of iron deficiency in developing countries is illustrated by comparison with other deficiencies: iron deficiency affects 3.5 billion people, while vitamin A and iodine deficiency affect 0.3 billion people and 0.8 billion people, respectively. The prevalence is highest among young children and women of childbearing age (particularly pregnant women). It is estimated that national productivity levels could be raised as much as 20% by correcting iron deficiency in developing countries. Recombinant human lactoferrin (rhLF), expressed and extracted from rice seed, is being evaluated by Ventria Bioscience for use as a dietary supplement to treat iron deficiency and/or iron deficiency anemia. Diarrhea is also a major world health issue. Sixty percent of children who die under age five die of pneumonia, diarrhea or measles. World Health Organization oral rehydration solution (WHO-ORS) is one of the major medical advances in the past 50 years, saving the lives of 1 to 2 million children annually. Many studies have demonstrated similar efficacy of rice-based ORS. There are studies documenting the reduced frequency of diarrhea in breast-fed children and this health improvement is attributed to the antimicrobial action of the human milk proteins lactoferrin and lysozyme. In vitro data document the growth inhibition of the diarrheal associated organisms: rotavirus, ETEC, cholera, salmonella, and shigella by human lactoferrin (hLF) and human lysozyme. Using Ventria's ExpressTec system, we have expressed human lactoferrin and human lysozyme in rice. In a rice-based ORS formulation, these proteins have the potential to provide not only the benefits of reduced stool volume and improved weight gain, but also shorten the course of diarrheal episodes via antimicrobial activity against the causative agent.
15223597	A traditional salt-miso process was used to produce a miso-like product from a 50-50 mixture of cowpea and groundnuts in a 60-day fermentation process as part of a study to determine the suitability of local legumes as raw materials for the production of miso. The koji was freshly prepared from a locally obtained rice and Aspergillus oryzae spores obtained from Japan. An old miso sample also obtained from Japan was used as the source of lactic acid bacteria. The physico-chemical changes in the product associated with the fermentation and the functional and quality characteristics of the final product were determined. The study demonstrated the possibility of processing the legume blend into a miso-like product. The physico-chemical, functional and quality characteristics of the final product showed the suitability of the product for its intended use as a soup base. The product had a high protein and a moderately high lipid content (about 25% and 29%, respectively), which could contribute to the nutritional contents of diets.
15223600	This study was to examine dietary intakes and the inter-relationships in urban Chinese spouses in Taipei, Taiwan. We analyzed the dietary intakes and related household factors for 82 wives and their husbands by 24-h recalls and a Chinese food frequency questionnaire (CFFQ) designed with meal sequences in Taipei, Taiwan. The distributions of energy assessed from CFFQ by meals were similar for husbands and wives, with 16% for breakfast, 39% for lunch, 40% for dinner and 5% for snacks (afternoon and evening combined). Assessed by 24-h recalls, the means for total energy, the energy per kilogram body weight, and the percent energy from fat, protein, and carbohydrate were different: 2394 kcal, 34.4 kcal/kg, 31%, 15%, and 51% for husbands; and 1729 kcal, 32.0 kcal/kg, 34%, 16%, and 50% for wives, respectively. The P/M/S (polyunsaturated fat/monounsaturated fat/saturated fat) ratios were 1.5/1.2/1 for husbands and 1.3/1.2/1 for wives. A high eating-out frequency may account for the low correlations for most nutrient intakes between husbands and wives. Canonical correlation analysis for total energy, protein and carbohydrate reveals significant inter-relationships between husbands and wives. Carbohydrate is the consistent and important variable that weighted in an opposite direction with protein and energy intakes in both husbands and wives. These results support the observation that decreased rice consumption as a staple food, cooked at home, for urban Chinese couples, indicated by decreased carbohydrate intake in wives, may account for the increase of energy and protein intakes for husbands.
15225289	Rapid, large-scale generation of a Ds transposant population was achieved using a regeneration procedure involving tissue culture of seed-derived calli carrying Ac and inactive Ds elements. In the F(2) progeny from genetic crosses between the same Ds and Ac starter lines, most of the crosses produced an independent germinal transposition frequency of 10-20%. Also, many Ds elements underwent immobilization even though Ac was expressed. By comparison, in a callus-derived regenerated population, over 70% of plants carried independent Ds insertions, indicating transposition early in callus formation. In the remaining population, the majority of plants carried only Ac. Most of the new Ds insertions were stably transmitted to a subsequent generation. An exceptionally high proportion of independent transposants in the regenerated population means that selection markers for transposed Ds and continual monitoring of Ac/Ds activities may not necessarily be required. By analyzing 1297 Ds-flanking DNA sequences, a genetic map of 1072 Ds insertion sites was developed. The map showed that Ds elements were transposed onto all of the rice chromosomes, with preference not only near donor sites (36%) but also on certain physically unlinked arms. Populations from both genetic crossing and tissue culture showed the same distribution patterns of Ds insertion sites. The information of these mapped Ds insertion sites was deposited in GenBank. Among them, 55% of Ds elements were on predicted open-reading frame (ORF) regions. Thus, we propose an optimal strategy for the rapid generation of a large population of Ds transposants in rice.
15226500	The impact of projected global warming on crop yields has been evaluated by indirect methods using simulation models. Direct studies on the effects of observed climate change on crop growth and yield could provide more accurate information for assessing the impact of climate change on crop production. We analyzed weather data at the International Rice Research Institute Farm from 1979 to 2003 to examine temperature trends and the relationship between rice yield and temperature by using data from irrigated field experiments conducted at the International Rice Research Institute Farm from 1992 to 2003. Here we report that annual mean maximum and minimum temperatures have increased by 0.35 degrees C and 1.13 degrees C, respectively, for the period 1979-2003 and a close linkage between rice grain yield and mean minimum temperature during the dry cropping season (January to April). Grain yield declined by 10% for each 1 degrees C increase in growing-season minimum temperature in the dry season, whereas the effect of maximum temperature on crop yield was insignificant. This report provides a direct evidence of decreased rice yields from increased nighttime temperature associated with global warming.
15228006	On the basis of a preliminary orthogonal design experiment, from which, the primary parameters suitable for the CO2 evolution from bio-degradation of agricultural organic wastes had been obtained, four single factor experiments were installed in greenhouse to seek the optimal parameters for the CO2 evolution. The results showed that the optimal parameters for the CO2 evolution from the bio-degradation of rice straw-pig manure mixture were 50 degrees C, 70% water content and initial pH 6.0-7.0. For fermentation, the optimal initial C/N ratio of substrate for cumulative CO2 evolution was 40/1, but 30/1 was better for compost. The effect of the four parameters on CO2 evolution was in the order of C/N ratio and water content > temperature > pH.
15228981	From ancient wisdom to modern science and technology, Chinese cuisine has been established from a long history of the country and gained a global reputation of its sophistication. Traditional Chinese foods and cuisine that exhibit Chinese culture, art and reality play an essential role in Chinese people's everyday lives. Recently, traditional Chinese foods have drawn a great degree of attention from food scientists and technologists, the food industry, and health promotion institutions worldwide due to the extensive values they offer beyond being merely another ethnic food. These traditional foods comprise a wide variety of products, such as pickled vegetables, salted fish and jellyfish, tofu and tofu derived products, rice and rice snack foods, fermented sauces, fish balls and thousand-year-old eggs. An overview of selected popular traditional Chinese foods and their processing techniques are included in this paper. Further development of the traditional techniques for formulation and production of these foods is expected to produce economic, social and health benefits.
1522967	We studied the social behaviour and dietary habits of 335 coeliacs older than 6 yrs diagnosed in our paediatric gastroenterology unit by a mailed questionnaire, 156 patients (45.2%) answered all questions; their median age was 14.7 yrs (range 6-29). We found that the disease does not compromise educational achievement and working capacity of patients. A majority of our coeliacs are students (from primary school to university) and rather successful ones since 55% of them passed their previous year examinations. Some are already employed and work as clerks, artisans, masons or skilled workers. 89.6% of our patients reported to be on a strict gluten-free diet, 9% introduce small amounts of gluten and 1.4% are on a normal diet by their own decision. Coeliac patients originating from Northern Italy have more of their gluten-free foods home made and use more gliadin free cereals (rice, maize), whereas coeliacs originating from the Southern regions consume more ready made gluten-free foods. We have assessed the amount of gluten-free products consumed monthly by our patients and their food preferences. Females eat less than males and prefer bread and flour based dishes, whereas males east more pasta and biscuits.
15230341	This randomized, six-treatment, six-period, six sequence, single dose, crossover pharmacokinetic study assessed the effect of different types of food on the bioavailability of 500-mg cefaclor extended release tablet in 23 healthy male volunteers. A single dose of cefaclor extended release 500-mg tablet was administered at six occasions: after overnight fasting, after two vegetarian (high-fat and low-fat), two non-vegetarian (high-fat and low-fat) and rice diets. Serial blood samples were collected up to 12 h after dose. Serum cefaclor concentrations were determined by a validated HPLC method. An almost equivalent increase in both Cmax and AUC was observed with both high-fat non-vegetarian and low-fat vegetarian breakfasts. However, when MIC90 values, a pharmacodynamic end-point were compared, the low-fat vegetarian diet fared better than the high-fat non-vegetarian diet. The results obtained favor low-fat vegetarian diet (breakfast) to be taken with cefaclor extended release tablet to achieve maximum benefit in terms of clinical efficacy.
15231121	To study the relationship between organochlorine and colorectal cancer. With multistage cluster random sampling, 11 towns were drawn based on the standardized incidence of colorectal cancer. Administrative and natural villages were drawn subsequently. Rice and soil samples in the paddy fields were collected in the villages. The contents of organochlorine were detected. Rank correlation analysis was performed together with the data of colorectal cancer incidence. The contents of hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) and dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) in both rice and soil samples were below the amounts of the country. Statistics showed that the standardized incidence rates were significantly different among the 11 towns. The contents of delta-HCH, gamma-HCH, sodium pentachlorophenate in rice and those of delta-HCH in soil were statistically different among the towns through the rank sum test. The standardized incidence of colorectal cancer was significantly connected with the content of total DDT in rice while rectal cancer with total DDT and PP'-DDE and colon cancer with 1245 of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCBs). The correlation coefficients were 0.636, 0.691, 0.716 and 0.658 respectively (P < 0.05). Rectal cancer was statistically correlated with organochlorine, mainly for total DDT and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (PP'-DDE). Colon cancer was significantly associated with 1245 of PCBs. Further study should be performed since this research was only an ecological study.
15231271	The AP2 transcription factor family, found only in plants, includes several genes that encode proteins involved in the regulation of disease resistance pathways. These genes are members of the ethylene response factor (ERF) subfamily of AP2 transcription factor genes, which have only a single DNA-binding domain and are distinct from members of the dehydration-responsive element binding (DREB) subfamily. Some ERF subgroups are enriched in such genes, suggesting that they have conserved functions that are required for the regulation of disease resistance pathways. The expression of several ERF genes is regulated by plant hormones, such as jasmonic acid, salicylic acid and ethylene, as well as by pathogen challenge. A phylogenetic overview of these genes, with a focus on Arabidopsis, rice and tomato, suggests that despite broad conservation of their function in monocots and dicots, some structural elements are specialized within each of these two lineages.
15231449	Some of the world's highest rates of stomach cancer are found in Poland. Reasons for the increased incidence are not known, but high intake of sausages and other preserved foods and low intake of fresh fruits and vegetables may be involved. A case-control study comprising residents newly diagnosed with stomach cancer during 1994-96 and controls randomly selected from the general population was conducted in Warsaw, Poland. Standardized interviews were conducted to ascertain usual consumption of 118 common foods and beverages and other exposures. Using data from direct interviews with 274 cases and 463 controls, odds ratios of stomach cancer were calculated as estimates of risks associated with dietary factors, adjusting for age, sex, education, smoking, and caloric intake. Risk of stomach cancer was inversely related to intake of total fruits and dark green-yellow vegetables and to indices of vitamins C and E and alpha- and beta-carotenes. However, risk was not significantly increased among those with high intake of pickled/salted vegetables and sausages. Risks were positively associated with increased intake of breads/cereals/rice/pasta and other refined grains, as well as a high carbohydrate index. Our findings add to the evidence of a protective effect of fruits and certain vegetables on stomach cancer risk, but do not indicate that high intake of sausage and other preserved foods typical in the Polish diet has contributed to the country's elevated stomach cancer incidence. Our data also suggest that high carbohydrate consumption may influence risk, but further confirmation is needed.
1523182	Forty-six broiler houses were examined for the presence of oocysts of Eimeria in the litter before and after withdrawal of lasalocid or salinomycin from the feed. A decrease in number of small oocysts (Eimeria acervulina or Eimeria mitis) was observed following withdrawal of medication. Numbers of medium-sized oocysts (probably Eimeria tenella) remained the same, but an increase in large oocysts (Eimeria maxima) was recorded. No lesions attributable to Eimeria tenella were found in the ceca of birds after withdrawal of the drug. More small- and medium-sized oocysts were found at sites with new litter than at sites where the litter had been employed for previous flocks. No difference in the number of oocysts was found, whether birds were reared on oak shavings or a mixture of pine shavings and rice hulls. The number of oocysts was positively correlated with the moisture content of the litter, but there was no correlation between oocysts present and the final BW or feed conversion of the birds. Moisture levels were highest (after withdrawal of drug) for new litter or oak shavings. There was no correlation between moisture content of the litter and BW or feed conversion.
15232221	To clarify mechanisms of rice blast resistance in rice plants we used suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) to isolate genes induced upon rice blast inoculation in a rice blast-resistant mutant. A total of 26 rice cDNAs were isolated and found to have elevated expression upon rice blast infection in a rice blast-resistant derivative, SHM-11, of the rice cultivar, Sanghaehyanghyella. Sequencing of the cDNAs revealed that many of the proteins they encoded had been previously described as involved in plant responses against pathogen attack. Two interesting groups of the defense-related proteins consisted of three different PR5 homologues and four different protease inhibitors, all highly expressed in the rice blast mutant. Genes encoding proteins involved in signal transduction and regulation were also identified, including translation initiation factor eIF5A, C2 domain DNA binding protein, putative rice EDS and putative receptor like kinase. Most of the identified cDNAs were highly expressed 24 h after blast inoculation. Our results suggest that a pathway regulating defense gene expression may be altered in the mutant, resulting in early induction of the defense genes upon fungal infection.
15232225	Two genetic markers, BCD135 and RZ567 were used to select clones from genomic BAC libraries of barley and rice for sequencing and subsequent sequence comparisons. A set of two orthologous BACs each from barley and rice was selected by hybridization with BCD135 and RZ567 cDNA probes. A total of 556-kb stretch including two barley BACs (773K135 and 745C13) and two orthologous rice BACs (24K23 and 49D11) was completely sequenced. Comparative sequence analysis between orthologous BACs from the two species revealed presence of two conserved genes at BCD135 region and only one gene at the RZ567 regions. The two conserved genes were in the same order and orientation in both the species however, separated by significantly larger distance in barley. The larger distance between two barley genes was mainly due to presence of different retrotransposable elements and their derivatives (78.9% of the intergenic region) that expanded the barley BCD135 region at the rate of 9.1X. An additional gene of unknown function was also inserted along with several retrotransposable elements between two conserved genes at barley BCD135 region. More genome expansion rate (10X) around barley RZ567 locus was estimated by extremely high proportion (> 70%) of retrotransposons. Among different retrotransposons, the Sabrina elements rather than BARE were more prevalent in both the regions. Contrary to it, the BCD135 region of rice was composed of only 17.1% retrotransposable elements and no significant retrotransposons except 14 miniature inverted transposable elements (MITEs) were observed in its RZ567 region. The sequence comparison between orthologous regions of rice and barley genomes was useful for gene identification and determination of individual gene structure indicating the possibility of effective utilization of rice genome sequences in understanding the large genome of barley. (The sequence data described in this paper have been submitted to the GenBank data library under the accession no. AF474072 (773K14), AF474071 (745C13), AF480497 (24K23) and AF480496 (49D11)).
15232694	To elucidate the roles of the isogenes encoding starch synthase (EC 2.4.1.21) in rice (Oryza sativa L.), a comprehensive expression analysis of the gene family was conducted. Extensive searches for starch synthase genes were done in the databases of both the whole genome and full-length cDNAs of rice, and ten genes were revealed to comprise the starch synthase gene family. Multi-sequence alignment analysis of the starch synthase proteins from rice and other plant species suggested that they were grouped into five classes, soluble starch synthase I (SSI), SSII, SSIII, SSIV and granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS). In rice, there was one gene for SSI, three for SSII and two each for SSIII, IV and GBSS. The expression pattern of the ten genes in the developing caryopsis was examined by semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis. Based on the temporal expression patterns, the ten genes could be divided into three groups: (i) early expressers (SSII-2, III-1, GBSSII), which are expressed in the early stage of grain filling; (ii) late expressers (SSII-3, III-2, GBSSI), which are expressed in the mid to later stage of grain filling; and (iii) steady expressers (SSI, II-1, IV-1, IV-2), which are expressed relatively constantly during grain filling. Within a caryopsis, the three gene groups spatially share their expression, i.e. "early expressers" in the pericarp, the "late expressers" in the endosperm" and the "steady expressers" in both tissues. In addition, this grouping was reflected in the expression pattern of various rice tissues: expression in non-endosperm, endosperm or all tissues examined. The implications in this spatio-temporal work sharing of starch synthesis isogenes are discussed.
15233790	A putative transcription factor, named RAMY, that binds to the 20-bp O2S sequences of the regulatory region of the Amy2 gene promoter has been identified using the yeast one-hybrid system from a rice library. The full length RAMY cDNA clone encodes a 218-amino acid protein and is homologous to the late embryogenesis-abundant protein (LEA5). In vitro mutagenesis and electrophoretic mobility shift assays confirmed that RAMY can bind with O2S specifically through an unusual zinc finger with a CXCX(4)CX(2)H consensus sequence. Low levels of RAMY mRNAs were detected in rice leaves and roots by Northern blot hybridization. The plant hormone gibberellin (GA) induces expression of both RAMY and Amy2 genes, as performed by Northern blot hybridization, but the increase in RAMY mRNA level occurs prior to that of the Amy2 mRNA level in the GA-treated aleurone tissues. These data suggest that RAMY may act as a trans-acting protein and is probably involved in the GA-induced expression of the rice alpha-amylase gene.
15234364	Collisional neutralization of several isomeric C(4)H(7)O(2) cations is used to generate radicals that share some structural features with transient species that are thought to be produced by radiolysis of 2-deoxyribose. The title 2-hydroxyoxolan-2-yl radical (1) undergoes nearly complete dissociation when produced by femtosecond electron transfer from thermal organic electron donors dimethyl disulfide and N,N-dimethylaniline in the gas phase. Product analysis, isotope labeling ((2)H and (18)O), and potential energy surface mapping by ab initio calculations at the G2(MP2) and B3-PMP2 levels of theory and in combination with Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) kinetic calculations are used to assign the major and some minor pathways for 1 dissociations. The major (approximately 90%) pathway is initiated by cleavage of the ring C-5[bond]O bond in 1 and proceeds to form ethylene and *CH(2)COOH as main products, whereas loss of a hydrogen atom forms 4-hexenoic acid as a minor product. Loss of the OH hydrogen atom forming butyrolactone (2, approximately 9%) and cleavage of the C-3[bond]C-4 bonds (<1%) in 1 are other minor pathways. The major source of excitation in 1 is by Franck-Condon effects that cause substantial differences between the adiabatic and vertical ionization of 1 (5.40 and 6.89 eV, respectively) and vertical recombination in the precursor ion 1(+) (4.46 eV). (+)NR(+) mass spectra distinguish radical 1 from isomeric radicals 2-oxo-(1H)oxolanium (3), 1,3-dioxan-2-yl (9), and 1,3-dioxan-4-yl (10) that were generated separately from their corresponding ion precursors.
15234457	The drying of rough rice seeds was visualized with the single point mapping imaging (SPI) technique by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at various temperatures, and the results were compared with those of the oven-drying method. Most of the water was present in the embryo and endosperm. The water reduction rate was larger on the outside than in the central position of the rice seeds at 50 degrees C, although this discrepancy was not obvious at 40 degrees C. Water reduction was brought about with time according to the kinetics of the multiple components, for both MR imaging and the ventilated-oven method. Images were continuously measured (10 min per image for 100 min). The reduction rate of water from rice kernels increased rapidly with temperature (up) to near 60 degrees C then rose slowly above 60 degrees C. Latent heat was calculated as 15 kcal/mol. deg from the changes of drying rate at temperatures below 60 degrees C.
15234998	The effects of Fe concentrations in the pretreatment solution on the induction of plaque and the differences between genotypes on arsenate uptake by and translocation within rice seedlings grown in nutrient solution in the greenhouse were investigated. After iron plaque on rice roots was induced in solutions containing 20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 mg Fe2+ l(-1), seedlings were transplanted into nutrient solution with 0.5 mg As l(-1). The formation of iron plaque was clearly visible as a reddish coating on the root surface after 12 h induction. Fe2+ concentrations in the pretreatment solution and 0.5 mg As l(-1) in the treatment solutions did not significantly affect rice growth. There was a significant correlation between the concentrations of Fe and As in iron plaque on the root surface for the three genotypes. About 75-89% of total As was concentrated in iron plaque (DCB-extracts). There were no significant differences in As concentrations in the roots between the three genotypes; however, As concentrations in shoots differed significantly between them. Arsenic concentrations in shoots were positively correlated with iron concentrations in the shoots. The results suggest that iron plaque may act as a 'buffer' for As in the rhizosphere.
15235120	alpha-Amylases are important enzymes for starch degradation in plants. However, it has been a long-running debate as to whether alpha-amylases are localized in plastids where starch is stored. To study the subcellular localization of alpha-amylases in plant cells, a rice (Oryza sativa) alpha-amylase, alphaAmy3, with or without its own signal peptide (SP) was expressed in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and analyzed. Loss-of-function analyses revealed that SP was required for targeting of alphaAmy3 to chloroplasts and/or amyloplasts and cell walls and/or extracellular compartments of leaves and suspension cells. SP was also required for in vitro transcribed and/or translated alphaAmy3 to be cotranslationally imported and processed in canine microsomes. alphaAmy3, present in chloroplasts of transgenic tobacco leaves, was processed to a product with Mr similar to alphaAmy3 minus its SP. Amino acid sequence analysis revealed that the SP of chloroplast localized alphaAmy3 was cleaved at a site only one amino acid preceding the predicted cleavage site. Function of the alphaAmy3 SP was further studied by gain-of-function analyses. beta-Glucuronidase (GUS) and green fluorescence protein fused with or without the alphaAmy3 SP was expressed in transgenic tobacco or rice. The alphaAmy3 SP directed translocation of GUS and green fluorescence protein to chloroplasts and/or amyloplasts and cell walls in tobacco leaves and rice suspension cells. The SP of another rice alpha-amylase, alphaAmy8, similarly directed the dual localizations of GUS in transgenic tobacco leaves. This study is the first evidence of SP-dependent dual translocations of proteins to plastids and extracellular compartments, which provides new insights into the role of SP in protein targeting and the pathways of SP-dependent protein translocation in plants.
15236471	Transgenic rice plants with an antisense gene inserted via Agrobacterium tumefaciens were used to explore the impact of the reduction of Rubisco activase (RCA) on Rubisco and photosynthesis. In this study, transformants containing 15% to 35% wild type Rubisco activase were selected, which could survive in ambient CO2 concentration but grew slowly compared with wild type controls. Gas exchange measurements indicated that the rate of photosynthesis decreased significantly, while stomatal conductance and transpiration rate did not change; and that the intercellular CO2 concentration even increased. Rubisco determination showed that these plants had approximately twice as much Rubisco as the wild types, although they showed 70% lower rate of photosynthesis, which was likely an acclimation response to the reduction in Rubsico activase and/or the reduction in carbamylation.
15236923	This study describes the epidemiological characteristics of all cases of strongyloidiasis diagnosed in the period 1995-1999 (both years included) in Area 11 of the Valencian Community (Spain) and their possible correlation to certain geographical and environmental conditions. This is a retrospective, descriptive study. Information was collected using a telephone survey. A total of 473 cases of strongyloidiasis were diagnosed. Of the total patients, 282 (60%) answered to the survey. There were 342 males (72%) and 131 females (28%). Ninety-four percent of the patients were in the 51-91 years age interval. Only three patients had been born abroad, while 15 had been on brief holidays to countries where the disease is endemic. The largest concentration of cases was found in zones 1 (0.49%) and 6 (0.9%), both having similar geomorphic characteristics. The professional activity of patients was recorded in 215 cases. The most frequent occupation was agriculture, with 124 cases (58%). Risk activities were recorded in 184 cases, the growing of rice in 145 patients (79%) being the most important. Strongyloides stercoralis infestation is endemic and possibly related to agricultural activities performed in previous years, and to the geographical characteristics of some parts of the area.
15239698	This study was to illustrate the relationship between the thermotolerance and the contents of hydrophobin-like or formic-acid-extractable (FAE) proteins in aerial conidia of Beauveria bassiana and Paecilomyces fumosoroseus produced on rice-based substrate. Survival indices of 11 isolates were separately assessed as a ratio of the viability of conidia after 3-150 min thermal stress at 48 degrees C over that of unstressed conidia and fitted well to a survival model (r(2) >/= 0.97). For a given isolate, the fitted model generated an LT(50), the time for 50% viability loss under the stress. The LT(50)s of six B. bassiana isolates (10.1-61.9 min) and five P. fumosoroseus isolates (2.8-6.2 min) were correlated (r(2) = 0.81) with FAE protein contents (6.9-23.4 microg mg(-1)). The survival indices of a fixed B. bassiana isolate after 45-min thermal stress at 48 degrees C were also correlated to the FAE protein contents from conidia produced on glucose-, sucrose-, or starch-based substrate (0.79 </= r(2) </= 0.86). Three bands of 12.0, 15.0 and 17.5 kDa were recognized from SDS-PAGE profiles of protein extracts from different isolates or from the fixed isolate grown on the three carbon sources, but the 12 kDa was less likely related to the thermotolerance. Approximately 80% of variability in conidial thermotolerance was attributed to either 15.0- or 17.5-kDa FAE protein or both. The relationship between conidial thermotolerance and FAE protein contents implicates a new way to search for fungal biocontrol agents with more thermotolerance and environmental persistence.
15239831	Myb proteins contain a conserved DNA-binding domain composed of one to four repeat motifs (referred to as R0R1R2R3); each repeat is approximately 50 amino acids in length, with regularly spaced tryptophan residues. Although the Myb proteins comprise one of the largest families of transcription factors in plants, little is known about the functions of most Myb genes. Here we use computational techniques to classify Myb genes on the basis of sequence similarity and gene structure, and to identify possible functional relationships among subgroups of Myb genes from Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica). This study analyzed 130 Myb genes from Arabidopsis and 85 from rice. The collected Myb proteins were clustered into subgroups based on sequence similarity and phylogeny. Interestingly, the exon-intron structure differed between subgroups, but was conserved in the same subgroup. Moreover, the Myb domains contained a significant excess of phase 1 and 2 introns, as well as an excess of nonsymmetric exons. Conserved motifs were detected in carboxy-terminal coding regions of Myb genes within subgroups. In contrast, no common regulatory motifs were identified in the noncoding regions. Additionally, some Myb genes with similar functions were clustered in the same subgroups. The distribution of introns in the phylogenetic tree suggests that Myb domains originally were compact in size; introns were inserted and the splicing sites conserved during evolution. Conserved motifs identified in the carboxy-terminal regions are specific for Myb genes, and the identified Myb gene subgroups may reflect functional conservation.
15239842	In addition to studies of plant gene function and developmental analyses, plant biotechnological use is largely dependent upon transgenic technologies. The moss Physcomitrella patens has become an exciting model system for studying plant molecular processes due to an exceptionally high rate of nuclear gene targeting by homologous recombination compared with other plants. However, its use in transgenic approaches requires expression vectors that incorporate sufficiently strong promoters. To satisfy this requirement, a set of plant expression vectors was constructed and equipped with either heterologous or endogenous promoters. Promoter activity was quantified using the dual-luciferase reporter assay system. The eight different heterologous promoter constructs tested exhibited expression levels spanning three orders of magnitude. Of these, the complete rice actin1 gene promoter showed the highest activity in Physcomitrella, followed by a truncated version of this promoter and three different versions of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. In contrast, the Agrobacterium tumefaciens nopaline synthase promoter induced transcription rather weakly. Constructs including promoters commonly used in mammalian expression systems also proved to be functional in Physcomitrella. In addition, the 5' -regions of two Physcomitrella glycosyltransferases (i.e. alpha1,3-fucosyltransferase and beta1,2-xylosyltransferase) were identified and functionally characterised in comparison to the heterologous promoters. Furthermore, motifs responsible for enhancement of translation efficiency - such as the TMV omega element and a modified sequence directly prior the start codon - were tested in this model. We developed a vector set that enables gene expression studies, both in lower and higher land plants, thus providing valuable tools applicable in both basic and applied molecular research.
15240259	Termites are an important component of tropical soil communities and have a significant effect on the structure and nutrient content of soil. Digestion in termites is related to gut structure, gut physicochemical conditions, and gut symbiotic microbiota. Here we describe the use of 16S rRNA gene sequencing and terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis to examine methanogenic archaea (MA) in the guts and food-soil of the soil-feeder Cubitermes fungifaber Sjostedt across a range of soil types. If these MA are strictly vertically inherited, then the MA in guts should be the same in all individuals even if the soils differ across sites. In contrast, gut MA should reflect what is present in soil if populations are merely a reflection of what is ingested as the insects forage. We show clear differences between the euryarchaeal communities in termite guts and in food-soils from five different sites. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene clones indicated little overlap between the gut and soil communities. Gut clones were related to a termite-derived Methanomicrobiales cluster, to Methanobrevibacter and, surprisingly, to the haloalkaliphile Natronococcus. Soil clones clustered with Methanosarcina, Methanomicrococcus, or rice cluster I. T-RFLP analysis indicated that the archaeal communities in the soil samples differed from site to site, whereas those in termite guts were similar between sites. There was some overlap between the gut and soil communities, but these may represent transient populations in either guts or soil. Our data do not support the hypothesis that termite gut MA are derived from their food-soil but also do not support a purely vertical transmission of gut microflora.
15240870	By employing the nuclear DNA of the African rice Oryza glaberrima as a reference genome, the timing, natures, mechanisms, and specificities of recent sequence evolution in the indica and japonica subspecies of Oryza sativa were identified. The data indicate that the genome sizes of both indica and japonica have increased substantially, >2% and >6%, respectively, since their divergence from a common ancestor, mainly because of the amplification of LTR-retrotransposons. However, losses of all classes of DNA sequence through unequal homologous recombination and illegitimate recombination have attenuated the growth of the rice genome. Small deletions have been particularly frequent throughout the genome. In >1 Mb of orthologous regions that we analyzed, no cases of complete gene acquisition or loss from either indica or japonica were found, nor was any example of precise transposon excision detected. The sequences between genes were observed to have a very high rate of divergence, indicating a molecular clock for transposable elements that is at least 2-fold more rapid than synonymous base substitutions within genes. We found that regions prone to frequent insertions and deletions also exhibit higher levels of point mutation. These results indicate a highly dynamic rice genome with competing processes for the generation and removal of genetic variation.
15240912	Rice is an excellent system for plant genomics as it represents a modest size genome of 430 Mb. It feeds more than half the population of the world. Draft sequences of the rice genome, derived by whole-genome shotgun approach at relatively low coverage (4-6 X), were published and the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP) declared high quality (>10 X), genetically anchored, phase 2 level sequence in 2002. In addition, phase 3 level finished sequence of chromosomes 1, 4 and 10 (out of 12 chromosomes of rice) has already been reported by scientists from IRGSP consortium. Various estimates of genes in rice place the number at >50,000. Already, over 28,000 full-length cDNAs have been sequenced, most of which map to genetically anchored genome sequence. Such information is very useful in revealing novel features of macro- and micro-level synteny of rice genome with other cereals. Microarray analysis is unraveling the identity of rice genes expressing in temporal and spatial manner and should help target candidate genes useful for improving traits of agronomic importance. Simultaneously, functional analysis of rice genome has been initiated by marker-based characterization of useful genes and employing functional knock-outs created by mutation or gene tagging. Integration of this enormous information is expected to catalyze tremendous activity on basic and applied aspects of rice genomics.
15241018	Brachypodium distachyon is a ubiquitous, temperate grass species which is being developed and exploited as an alternative model to rice, in order to gain access to important syntenic regions of the genomes of less tractable relatives such as wheat. As part of this initiative, this paper describes for the first time the cytotaxonomy of members of the polyploid series of this species, and challenges the assumption that the series evolved simply by chromosome doubling. In situ hybridization using genomic DNA probes and rDNA markers uncovers a hybrid origin of several of the polyploid ecotypes, and sheds light upon the complex evolution of this species and its close relatives.
15241578	The widely-used pesticide propanil is a selective post-emergent general-use acetanilide herbicide registered for control of broadleaf and grass weeds in rice, small grain, and turf. Because broad application and quite heavy use of this herbicide lead to contaminated sites and, consequently, contaminated water, immunoanalytical methods with very low limits of detection (LOD) and low limits of quantification (LOQ) are becoming increasingly important for environmental analysis and, especially, for monitoring drinking-water quality. Environmental monitoring of pesticides, hormones, endocrine-disrupting chemicals, and antibiotics in aqueous samples (e.g. surface, ground, waste, or drinking water) with quite difficult matrices places large demands on chemical analysis. Biosensors have suitable characteristics such as efficiency in enabling very fast, sensitive, and cost-effective detection. Here we describe the steps of progress toward sub-nanogram per liter detection of propanil with a fully automated immunoassay. In contrast with common analytical methods such as GC-MS or HPLC-MS the biosensor used requires no sample pre-treatment and pre-concentration. The basis of our sensitive assay is an antibody with a high affinity constant toward propanil. During the optimization process, we compared different surface modifications (four different immobilized derivatives) and reduced the amount of antibody per sample. In fact, optimization of the assay resulted in an LOD of 0.6 ng L(-1) and an LOQ of 4.5 ng L(-1) without any sample pre-treatment and without pre-concentration. These results for propanil with the RIANA instrument, and its improved sensitivity for detection of a single pesticide at the low nanogram per liter range, show that biosensors can compete with common analytical methods in the field of water analysis.
15242171	Maize lines that contain the single dominant gene Rxo1 exhibit a rapid hypersensitive response (HR) after infiltration with the rice bacterial streak pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, but not with the rice bacterial blight pathogen X. oryzae pv. oryzae. The avirulence effector gene that corresponds to Rxo1, designated avrRxo1, was identified in an X. oryzae pv. oryzicola genomic library. When introduced into X. oryzae pv. oryzae, clones containing avrRxo1 induced an HR on maize with Rxo1, but not on maize without Rxo1. The avrRxo1 gene is 1,266 bp long and shows no significant homology to any database sequences. When expressed in an X. oryzae pv. oryzae hrpC mutant that is deficient in the type III secretion system, avrRxo1 did not elicit the HR, indicating that the avrRxo1-Rxo1 interaction is dependent on type III secretion. Transient expression of avrRxo1 in onion cells after biolistic delivery revealed that the protein product was associated with the plasma membrane. Transient expression in maize lines carrying Rxo1 resulted in cell death, suggesting that AvrRxo1 functions from inside maize cells to elicit Rxo1-dependent pathogen recognition.
1524230	Solid-phase extraction (SPE) of organochlorine pesticide residues from environmental water samples was evaluated using octadecyl (C18)-bonded porous silica. The efficiency of SPE of these pesticide residues from reagent water samples at 1-5 micrograms dm-3 levels was compared with those obtained by solvent extraction with hexane and Freon TF (trichlorotrifluoroethane). Average recoveries exceeding 80% for these organochlorine pesticides were obtained via the SPE method using small cartridges containing 100 mg of 40 microns C18-bonded porous silica. The average recovery by solvent extraction with hexane and Freon TF exceeded 90% in both instances. It was concluded that the recoveries and precision for the SPE of organochlorine pesticides were poorer than those for the solvent extraction method. Organochlorine pesticide residue levels in environmental water samples from two major rivers flowing through predominantly rice-growing areas were monitored by gas chromatography using the solvent extraction method with hexane. Exceptionally high levels of organochlorine pesticide residues such as BHC, DDT, heptachlor, endosulfan and dieldrin were found in these water samples.
15244513	The major food items of Indian cuisine include rice, wheat, diary products, and abundant fruits and vegetables. Beside these, there are several kinds of herbs and spices as important ingredients, containing many phytochemicals with medicinal properties, adding taste to Indian cuisine. An impressive body of data exists in support of the concept that Indian food ingredients can be used in preventive strategies aimed at reducing the incidence and mortality of different types of cancers because of their antioxidative, antimutagenic and anticarcinogenic properties. Vital ingredients used in Indian cooking include turmeric, cloves, ginger, aniseed, mustard, saffron, cardamom and garlic Garlic is an indispensable ingredient of Indian food and this report concerns the chemopreventive efficacy of garlic in an azoxymethane induced rodent colon carcinogenesis model. The effect of garlic was evaluated in terms of aberrant crypt foci, putative preneoplastic lesions in the colon. In addition, cell proliferation and levels of apoptosis were determined and the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 protein was analyzed. Following treatment, significant inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis, as well as suppression of cyclooxygenase-2 activity were observed, associated with significant reduction in the incidence of aberrant crypt foci. The study points to combined protective effects of garlic components on colon carcinogenesis.
15245900	Centromeres are a conundrum; although many proteins associated with centomeres are conserved from yeast to humans, the underlying DNA sequence is not. A proposed solution to this problem is that an epigenetic, largely heterochromatic, state be imposed by these proteins. Recent analysis of a human neocentromere and the complete sequence of a rice centromere suggest that this epigenetic state can enable transcription of at least some genes within a centromere.
15246060	Hormonal regulation of expression of alpha-amylase II-4 that lacks the gibberellin-response cis-element (GARE) in the promoter region of the gene was studied in germinating rice (Oryza sativa L.) seeds. Temporal and spatial expression of alpha-amylase II-4 in the aleurone layer were essentially identical to those of alpha-amylase I-1 whose gene contains GARE, although these were distinguishable in the embryo tissues at the early stage of germination. The gibberellin-responsible expression of alpha-amylase II-4 was also similar to that of alpha-amylase I-1. However, the level of alpha-amylase II-4 mRNA was not increased by gibberellin, indicating that the transcriptional enhancement of alpha-amylase II-4 expression did not occur in the aleurone. Gibberellin stimulated the accumulation of 45Ca2+ into the intracellular secretory membrane system. In addition, several inhibitors for Ca2+ signaling, such as EGTA, neomycin, ruthenium red (RuR), and W-7 prevented the gibberellin-induced expression of alpha-amylase II-4 effectively. While the gibberellin-induced expression of alpha-amylase II-4 occurred normally in the aleurone layer of a rice dwarf mutant d1 which is defective in the alpha subunit of the heterotrimeric G protein. Based on these results, it was concluded that the posttranscriptional regulation of alpha-amylase II-4 expression by gibberellin operates in the aleurone layer of germinating rice seed, which is mediated by Ca2+ but not the G protein.
15246235	In vitro studies have demonstrated antibacterial activity of essential oils (EOs) against Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella typhimurium, Escherichia coli O157:H7, Shigella dysenteria, Bacillus cereus and Staphylococcus aureus at levels between 0.2 and 10 microl ml(-1). Gram-negative organisms are slightly less susceptible than gram-positive bacteria. A number of EO components has been identified as effective antibacterials, e.g. carvacrol, thymol, eugenol, perillaldehyde, cinnamaldehyde and cinnamic acid, having minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of 0.05-5 microl ml(-1) in vitro. A higher concentration is needed to achieve the same effect in foods. Studies with fresh meat, meat products, fish, milk, dairy products, vegetables, fruit and cooked rice have shown that the concentration needed to achieve a significant antibacterial effect is around 0.5-20 microl g(-1) in foods and about 0.1-10 microl ml(-1) in solutions for washing fruit and vegetables. EOs comprise a large number of components and it is likely that their mode of action involves several targets in the bacterial cell. The hydrophobicity of EOs enables them to partition in the lipids of the cell membrane and mitochondria, rendering them permeable and leading to leakage of cell contents. Physical conditions that improve the action of EOs are low pH, low temperature and low oxygen levels. Synergism has been observed between carvacrol and its precursor p-cymene and between cinnamaldehyde and eugenol. Synergy between EO components and mild preservation methods has also been observed. Some EO components are legally registered flavourings in the EU and the USA. Undesirable organoleptic effects can be limited by careful selection of EOs according to the type of food.
15246651	Oryzomine rodents in the southeastern United States, Panama, and southern South America are natural hosts of 6 of the 13 viruses known to cause hantavirus pulmonary syndrome. The purpose of this study was to extend our knowledge of the geographical distribution and genetic diversity of the hantaviruses associated with oryzomine rodents in South America. An infectious hantavirus was isolated from two fulvous pygmy rice rats captured in western Venezuela. Analyses of complete nucleocapsid protein and glycoprotein precursor sequences indicated that the isolates are strains of a novel hantavirus (proposed name "Maporal") which is phylogenetically most closely related to the viruses known to cause hantavirus pulmonary syndrome in southern South America.
15246699	Edaravone has an inhibitory effect on lipid peroxidation by scavenging free radicals and prevents vascular endothelial cell injury. We examined whether edaravone was effective on hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury in immature brain or not using the Rice-Vannucci model. The initial dose, 3 mg/kg (0.05 ml) of edaravone, was injected intraperitoneally just before hypoxic exposure. Subsequently, the same dose was injected every 12 h until the animals were killed. Controls received saline injection as the same protocol. Macroscopic evaluation of brain injury revealed that the neuroprotective effect of edaravone on HI brain after 48 h post HI. TUNEL showed that edaravone injection decreased neurodegeneration. Quantitative analysis of cell death using H&E-stained 2.5 microm sections showed that there was a trend for both necrotic and apoptotic cells to decrease in edaravone injection group. Edaravone injection inhibited the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol and caspase-3 activation in cortex and hippocampus between 24 and 168 h post HI. Our results suggest that edaravone is protective after HI insult in the immature brain by decreasing both apoptosis and necrosis and also by inhibiting mitochondrial injury.
15246778	Two stereoisomers of a castasterone/ponasterone A hybrid compound, the (20R,22R) and (20R,22S)-isomers of 2alpha,3alpha,20,22-tetrahydroxy-5alpha-cholestan-6-one, were synthesized stereoselectively and their binding activity to the ecdysteroid receptor was determined. From the concentration-response curve for the inhibition of the incorporation of tritiated ponasterone A into ecdysteroid receptor containing insect cells, the concentration (IC50) required to inhibit 50% of the incorporation of radioactivity into cells was evaluated. The IC50 values of the (22R)- and (22S)-isomers were determined to be 0.30 and 38.9 microM against Kc cells, respectively, indicating that the (22R)-isomer is about 100 times more potent than the corresponding (22S)-isomer. IC50 values of these compounds against lepidopteran Sf-9 cells were determined to be 0.36 and 12.9 microM, respectively. The molting hormonal effect was examined in a Chilo suppressalis integument system and the 50% effective concentration for the stimulation of N-acetylglucosamine incorporation into the cultured integument was determined to be 2.7 microM for the (22R)-isomer, while the (22S)-isomer was inactive. On the other hand, both isomers did not show brassinolide-like activity in the rice lamina inclination assay.
15247372	There are very few root genes that have been described in rice as a monocotyledonous model plant so far. Here, the OsRAA1 (Oryza sativa Root Architecture Associated 1) gene has been characterized molecularly. OsRAA1 encodes a 12.0-kD protein that has 58% homology to the AtFPF1 (Flowering Promoting Factor 1) in Arabidopsis, which has not been reported as modulating root development yet. Data of in situ hybridization and OsRAA1::GUS transgenic plant showed that OsRAA1 expressed specifically in the apical meristem, the elongation zone of root tip, steles of the branch zone, and the young lateral root. Constitutive expression of OsRAA1 under the control of maize (Zea mays) ubiquitin promoter resulted in phenotypes of reduced growth of primary root, increased number of adventitious roots and helix primary root, and delayed gravitropic response of roots in seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa), which are similar to the phenotypes of the wild-type plant treated with auxin. With overexpression of OsRAA1, initiation and growth of adventitious root were more sensitive to treatment of auxin than those of the control plants, while their responses to 9-hydroxyfluorene-9-carboxylic acid in both transgenic line and wild type showed similar results. OsRAA1 constitutive expression also caused longer leaves and sterile florets at the last stage of plant development. Analysis of northern blot and GUS activity staining of OsRAA1::GUS transgenic plants demonstrated that the OsRAA1 expression was induced by auxin. At the same time, overexpression of OsRAA1 also caused endogenous indole-3-acetic acid to increase. These data suggested that OsRAA1 as a new gene functions in the development of rice root systems, which are mediated by auxin. A positive feedback regulation mechanism of OsRAA1 to indole-3-acetic acid metabolism may be involved in rice root development in nature.
15247374	Suc-phosphate synthase (SPS) is a key regulatory enzyme in the pathway of Suc biosynthesis and has been linked to quantitative trait loci controlling plant growth and yield. In dicotyledonous plants there are three SPS gene families: A, B, and C. Here we report the finding of five families of SPS genes in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and other monocotyledonous plants from the family Poaceae (grasses). Three of these form separate subfamilies within the previously described A, B, and C gene families, but the other two form a novel and distinctive D family, which on present evidence is only found in the Poaceae. The D-type SPS proteins lack the phosphorylation sites associated with 14-3-3 protein binding and osmotic stress activation, and the linker region between the N-terminal catalytic glucosyltransferase domain and the C-terminal Suc-phosphatase-like domain is 80 to 90 amino acid residues shorter than in the A, B, or C types. The D family appears to have arisen after the divergence of mono- and dicotyledonous plants, with a later duplication event resulting in the two D-type subfamilies. Each of the SPS gene families in wheat showed different, but overlapping, spatial and temporal expression patterns, and in most organs at least two different SPS genes are expressed. Analysis of expressed sequence tags indicated similar expression patterns to wheat for each SPS gene family in barley (Hordeum vulgare) but not in more distantly related grasses. We identified an expressed sequence tag from rice (Oryza sativa) that appears to be derived from an endogenous antisense SPS gene, and this might account for the apparently low level of expression of the related OsSPS11 sense gene, adding to the already extensive list of mechanisms for regulating the activity of SPS in plants.
15247400	Despite ongoing research on carotenoid biosynthesis in model organisms, there is a paucity of information on pathway regulation operating in the grasses (Poaceae), which include plants of world-wide agronomic importance. As a result, efforts to either breed for or metabolically engineer improvements in carotenoid content or composition in cereal crops have led to unexpected results. In comparison to maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa) accumulates no endosperm carotenoids, despite having a functional pathway in chloroplasts. To better understand why these two related grasses differ in endosperm carotenoid content, we began to characterize genes encoding phytoene synthase (PSY), since this nuclear-encoded enzyme appeared to catalyze a rate-controlling step in the plastid-localized biosynthetic pathway. The enzyme had been previously associated with the maize Y1 locus thought to be the only functional gene controlling PSY accumulation, though function of the Y1 gene product had never been demonstrated. We show that both maize and rice possess and express products from duplicate PSY genes, PSY1 (Y1) and PSY2; PSY1 transcript accumulation correlates with carotenoid-containing endosperm. Using a heterologous bacterial system, we demonstrate enzyme function of PSY1 and PSY2 that are largely conserved in sequence except for N- and C-terminal domains. By database mining and use of ortholog-specific universal PCR primers, we found that the PSY duplication is prevalent in at least eight subfamilies of the Poaceae, suggesting that this duplication event preceded evolution of the Poaceae. These findings will impact study of grass phylogeny and breeding of enhanced carotenoid content in an entire taxonomic group of plant crops critical for global food security.
15247401	The oligopeptide transporter (OPT) family contains nine members in Arabidopsis. While there is some evidence that AtOPTs mediate the uptake of tetra- and pentapeptides, OPT homologs in rice (Oryza sativa; OsGT1) and Indian mustard (Brassica juncea; BjGT1) have been described as transporters of glutathione derivatives. This study investigates the possibility that two members of the AtOPT family, AtOPT6 and AtOPT7, may also transport glutathione and its conjugates. Complementation of the hgt1met1 yeast double mutant by plant homologs of the yeast glutathione transporter HGT1 (AtOPT6, AtOPT7, OsGT1, BjGT1) did not restore the growth phenotype, unlike complementation by HGT1. By contrast, complementation by AtOPT6 restored growth of the hgt1 yeast mutant on a medium containing reduced (GSH) or oxidized glutathione as the sole sulfur source and induced uptake of [3H]GSH, whereas complementation by AtOPT7 did not. In these conditions, AtOPT6-dependent GSH uptake in yeast was mediated by a high affinity (Km = 400 microm) and a low affinity (Km = 5 mm) phase. It was strongly competed for by an excess oxidized glutathione and glutathione-N-ethylmaleimide conjugate. Growth assays of yeasts in the presence of cadmium (Cd) suggested that AtOPT6 may transport Cd and Cd/GSH conjugate. Reporter gene experiments showed that AtOPT6 is mainly expressed in dividing areas of the plant (cambium, areas of lateral root initiation). RNA blots on cell suspensions and real-time reverse transcription-PCR on Arabidopsis plants indicated that AtOPT6 expression is strongly induced by primisulfuron and, to a lesser extent, by abscisic acid but not by Cd. Altogether, the data show that the substrate specificity and the physiological functions of AtOPT members may be diverse. In addition to peptide transport, AtOPT6 is able to transport glutathione derivatives and metal complexes, and may be involved in stress resistance.
15247409	Using a two-element iAc/Ds transposon-tagging system, we identified a rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Nipponbare) recessive mutant, anther indehiscence1 (aid1), showing partial to complete spikelet sterility. Spikelets of the aid1 mutant could be classified into three types based on the viability of pollen grains and the extent of anther dehiscence. Type 1 spikelets (approximately 25%) were sterile due to a failure in accumulation of starch in pollen grains. Type 2 spikelets (approximately 55%) had viable pollen grains, but anthers failed to dehisce and/or synchronize with anthesis due to failure in septum degradation and stomium breakage, resulting in sterility. Type 3 spikelets (approximately 20%) had normal fertility. In addition, aid1 mutant plants had fewer tillers and flowered 10 to 15 d later than the wild type. The Ds insertion responsible for the aid1 mutation was mapped within the coding region of the AID1 gene on chromosome 6, which is predicted to encode a novel protein of 426 amino acids with a single MYB domain. The MYB domain of AID1 is closely related to that of the telomere-binding proteins of human, mouse, and Arabidopsis, and of single MYB domain transcriptional regulators in plants such as PcMYB1 and ZmIBP1. AID1 was expressed in both the leaves and panicles of wild-type plants, but not in mutant plants.
15247529	Although in 1969, rice pollen was first reported as a cause of asthma, rice pollen allergy has not been studied after the first report and thus the allergic significance of rice pollen is not well recognized at present. We investigated the sensitization to various allergens and the residential areas in children with the symptoms of asthma or rhinoconjunctivitis during the first decade of August, and measured rice pollen-specific IgE antibodies. Eighty-eight children (57 boys and 31 girls, mean age 8.5+/-2.9 years) with bronchial asthma or allergic rhinitis/conjunctivitis were included in this study and divided into two groups: children with (n=21) or without (n=67) symptoms during this period. The positivity rate to orchard grass pollen and the rate of residence in the surrounding area of rice field were high (81%, P=0.008 and 86%, P<0.001, respectively) in children with allergic symptoms, as compared to the values (48% and 27%, respectively) in children without symptoms. As the rice pollen season in Nagano occurs in the first decade of August, we measured rice pollen-specific IgE antibodies in 8 patients with symptoms during this period; all of these patients showed positive IgE antibodies to rice pollen. The RAST-inhibition assay using orchard grass and rice pollen indicated cross-allergenecity between these two pollen and also the existence of rice pollen-specific allergens. These results suggest that rice pollen induces seasonal asthma and allergic rhinoconjunctivitis during the first decade of August, which is the rice pollen season, in the surrounding area of rice fields.
15248020	The ORF of genome segment 6 (S6) of rice ragged stunt oryzavirus (RRSV) Philippines isolate was cloned and sequenced based on the S6 sequence of the Thailand isolate. Pns6, the 71 kD product of S6 expressed in E. coli, was demonstrated to be a viral non-structural protein of RRSV by Western blotting. The gel mobility shift assays showed that Pns6 had nucleic acid binding activity. Pns6 could interact with single- and double-stranded forms of DNA and RNA, showing a preference for single-stranded nucleic acid and a slight preference for RRSV ssRNA over the rice ssRNA, as demonstrated by both competition and displacement assays. The binding of Pns6 to nucleic acids is strong and sequence non-specific. By using five truncated derivatives of Pns6, it was found that the basic region from amino acid 201 to 273 of Pns6 was the unique nucleic acid binding domain. Subcellular fractionation of leaf tissues of RRSV-infected rice plants and subsequent Western blotting had shown that Pns6 accumulated predominately in the cytoplasmic membrane fraction. The possible role of RRSV Pns6 in virus replication and assembly is discussed.
15249916	Timing the introduction of solids and milk formulas in infants' diet varies throughout the world. The aim of the present study was to assess the modalities of weaning, suggested by pediatricians in Piedmont, Italy, and to compare them to current scientific guidelines. The survey was conducted using data recording forms sent to the pediatricians of our area (both practitioners and hospital physicians) from September 2000 to January 2001. Pediatricians were asked to fill in a questionnaire about the time of solid food introduction in the 1st year of life. The study was supported by 168 pediatricians, of these 105 practitioners, 53 hospital doctors and 9 university physicians. The mean age of weaning was 4.5 months. The 1st beikost was vegetable soup with rice flour, meat and parmesan in 65.4%; in 73.8% it was given with a spoon. In 94.6% no salt was added, in 84.5% no sweetener was added. Homogenized fruit was introduced at a mean age of 4.4 months: apple was the 1st fruit to be introduced (4.5 months), followed by pear (4.8 months) and banana (5.6). Lyophilised meat was introduced at 5 months, homogenized meat was introduced at 6.2 months, and minced meat was introduced at 8.2 months. Vegetables (potatoes, carrots, courgettes) were introduced between 5.2 to 5.4 months of age. Parmesan was introduced at 5.3 months; gluten at 6.2 months. Egg yolk was the 1st to be introduced (mean age = 8.9 months), while albumen was introduced at a mean age of 11.6 months. Fish was given at a mean age of 8.2 months. Cow's milk was introduced at 9 months. Paediatricians give indications about the introduction of solid foods according to scientific guidelines, with the exception of cow's milk which is introduced too early.
15251054	The purpose of this study was to compare dietary practices among different birth cohorts of 70-year-old Swedes, who were examined between 1971 and 2000. Göteborg, Sweden. Four population-based samples of 1360 70-year-olds, born in 1901, 1911, 1922 and 1930, have undergone health examinations and dietary assessments over a period of almost three decades. One-hour diet history (DH) interviews were conducted in 1971, 1981, 1992 and 2000 with a total of 758 women and 602 women. The formats and contents of the dietary examinations were similar over the years. Statistical analysis of linear trends was conducted, using year of examination as the independent variable, to detect secular trends in food and nutrient intakes across cohorts. At the 2000 examination, the majority of 70-year-olds consumed nutritionally adequate diets. Later-born cohorts consumed more yoghurt, breakfast cereals, fruit, vegetables, chicken, rice and pasta than earlier-born cohorts. Consumption of low-fat spread and milk also increased, along with that of wine, light beer and candy. In contrast, potatoes, cakes and sugar were consumed less in 2000 than in 1971. The ratio of reported energy intake to estimated basal metabolic rate did not show any systematic trend over time in women, but showed a significant upward trend in men. The diet history method has captured changes in food selections in the elderly without changing in general format over three decades. Dietary quality has improved in a number of ways, and these findings in the elderly are consistent with national food consumption trends in the general population.
15251068	The year 2001 may well be called the Year of the Human Genome. Less in the limelight, but equally exciting for plant scientists, is the rapid progress in plant genomics. With relatively modest resources, a lot has been achieved. The Arabidopsis genomic sequence (125 megabases [Mb]) is essentially finished, and rice sequencing is progressing rapidly. For many species, expressed sequence tag (EST) resources are plentiful, allowing broad inter-specific comparisons. At the same time, development of integrated physical-genetic maps for large-genome crop species is not progressing as rapidly as desired, while resources for the complete sequencing of these crops are not likely to become available. Some important plant genomes are so large that their complete sequencing may not be practical for many years. Significant plant genome research is concentrated in industry, and not freely available, creating some frustration in the academic community. Growing interest is anticipated in the development of metabolic profiling technologies, RNA profiling, proteomics and integrated systems approaches to plant biology.
15252708	Transgenic rice plants, expressing snowdrop lectin [Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA)], obtained by Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation, were evaluated for resistance against the insect, the whitebacked planthopper (WBPH). The transgene gna was driven by the phloem-specific, rice-sucrose synthase promoter RSs1, and the bar was driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. In our previous study, the transgenic status of these lines was confirmed by Southern, Northern and Western blot analyses. Both the transgenes, gna and bar, were stably inherited and co-segregated into progenies in T1 to T5 generations. Insect bioassays on transgenic plants revealed the potent entomotoxic effects of GNA on the WBPH. Also, significant decreases were observed in the survival, development and fecundity of the insects fed on transgenic plants. Furthermore, intact GNA was detected in the total proteins of WBPHs fed on these plants. Western blot analysis revealed stable and consistent expression of GNA throughout the growth and development of transgenic plants. Transgenic lines expressing GNA exhibited high-level resistance against the WBPH. As reported earlier, these transgenics also showed substantial resistance against the brown planthopper and green leafhopper.
15253679
15254123	Nonpoint-source pollution by phosphorus (P) poses a threat to waters in the Taihu Lake basin in China. The potential transfer of P in rice (Oryza sativa L.) fields through surface drainage and subsurface flow was investigated under simulated conventional irrigation-drainage management. Surface drainage events were conducted to avoid overflow across the plots after heavy rainfall and for rice harvest, at which time P losses were also investigated. This study was conducted in 2001 in a long-term rice field experiment. The experimental plots were treated with 0, 26, or 52 kg P ha(-1) as superphosphate or 26 kg P ha(-1) with equal parts of P supplied as superphosphate and pig manure. Phosphorus concentrations and loads in field floodwater on plots receiving P rapidly declined in a nonlinear manner before the first drainage, three weeks after fertilizer application. The combined application of fertilizer and manure P resulted in higher P transfer potential in field floodwater than with fertilizer P alone one week after P application. Phosphorus concentrations in interflow water sampled by Teflon suction cups inserted at a depth of 150 to 200 mm gradually increased within two weeks after P application, then declined. The concentration of P in interflow water was related to soil P buildup from long-term P application, as well as recently applied P. The 26 kg P ha(-1) treatment (the conventional P rate in this region) resulted in a loss of 0.74 kg total phosphorus (TP) ha(-1) and a drainage-weighted average concentration of 0.25 mg TP L(-1) from the three surface drainage events. Results indicate that avoiding overflow drainage after P input and extending the time between P application and drainage may reduce P losses from rice paddies.
15254258	NUPTs (nuclear plastid DNA) derive from plastid-to-nucleus DNA transfer and exist in various plant species. Experimental data imply that the DNA transfer is an ongoing, highly frequent process, but for the interspecific diversity of NUPTs, no clear explanation exists. Here, an inventory of NUPTs in the four sequenced plastid-bearing species and their genomic organization is presented. Large genomes with a predicted low gene density contain more NUPTs. In Chlamydomonas and Plasmodium, DNA transfer occurred but was limited, probably because of the presence of only one plastid per cell. In Arabidopsis and rice, NUPTs are frequently organized as clusters. Tight clusters can contain both NUPTs and NUMTs (nuclear mitochondrial DNA), indicating that preNUPTs and preNUMTs might have concatamerized before integration. The composition of such a hypothetical preNUPT-preNUMT pool seems to be variable, as implied by substantially different NUPTs:NUMTs ratios in different species. Loose clusters can span several dozens of kbps of nuclear DNA, and they contain markedly more NUPTs or NUMTs than expected from a random genomic distribution of nuclear organellar DNA. The level of sequence similarity between NUPTs/NUMTs and plastid/mitochondrial DNA correlates with the size of the integrant. This implies that original insertions are large and decay over evolutionary time into smaller fragments with diverging sequences. We suggest that tight and loose clusters represent intermediates of this decay process.
15254715	This is the first report that a Fusarium toxin nivalenol (NIV) naturally existing at high levels in dietary food in high-risk areas of cancer of esophagus and gastric cardia in China induced benign and malignant tumors in mice. The levels of two Fusarium toxins, nivalenol and deoxynivalenol (DON) were quantitated using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in a total of 97 samples of dietary wheat flour, barley and corn collected from families in two areas with high mortality rate of cancer of esophagus and gastric cardia (132/100,000), Linxian, Henan province and Cixiang, Hepei province, China. The mean level of NIV and DON in three dietary foods was 830+/-927 microg/kg (range 584-1,780 microg/kg) and 4,281+/-6,114 microg/kg (range 732-10,980 microg/kg) respectively. The highest mean level of NIV was 1,780+/-1,705 microg/kg found in barley from Linxian, that of DON was 10,980+/-10,139 microg/kg found in corn from Cixiang. NIV was undetectable in 2 samples of rice from USA. The mean levels of NIV in three main dietary foods in those two high-risk areas were estimated at 400 to 800-fold higher than that in the USA, where NIV was undetectable in dietary food, and the mortality rate of esophageal cancer is <5/100,000 in white Caucasians in the USA, (odds ratio was estimated at 17-34, p<0.000005). These data suggest that Linxian and Cixiang peasants who consumed a diet with high NIV had significantly higher risk for developing esophageal cancer than the US residents who consumed food without or with negligible amounts of NIV. Three repeated experiments were performed using Balb/C mice with inter-mittent application of NIV, alternate with 12-Tetradeconoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) application on skin. Papillomas and carcinomas developed in a total of 23/49 (47%) mice that survived 11-60 weeks of experiments. Among all the tumors, 4 carcinomas in 3 mice were identified. No tumors were found in the 60 control mice applying either TPA or acetone (solvent) only on skin.
15255645	Based on the results of studies on varietal screening, antixenosis (egg laying preference) and antibiosis (larval survival and adult emergence), rice varieties W1263 and CO43 were selected as resistant and susceptible parents, respectively, for yellow stemborer (YSB) infestation. A mapping population was developed using above parents following single seed descent method. Screening for YSB reaction in F1 and F2, generations under field and glasshouse conditions for both dead hearts and white ears, established the polygenic nature of inheritance for YSB resistance. Field screening for YSB resistance at F9 generation revealed the difference in the reactions among recombinant inbred lines (RILs) between vegetative and reproductive stages. The experiments under field and glasshouse screening of RILs for dead hearts showed significant positive association. However, the reaction was more towards susceptibility in glasshouse screening due to no choice test. Scoring of 250 RILs (F8) for various morphological traits showed wide range of variation indicating the suitability for QTL mapping.
15255861	Rice produces a number of phytoalexins, and at least one allelopathic agent, from syn-copalyl diphosphate (CPP), representing the only known metabolic fate for this compound. Thus, the class II terpene synthase that converts the universal diterpenoid precursor geranylgeranyl diphosphate to syn-CPP catalyzes the committed step in biosynthesis of these natural products. Here the extensive sequence information available for rice was coupled to recombinant expression and functional analysis to identify syn-copalyl diphosphate synthase (OsCPSsyn). In addition, OsCPSsyn mRNA was found to be specifically induced in leaves by conditions that stimulate phytoalexin biosynthesis. Therefore, transcription of OsCPSsyn seems to be an important regulatory point for controlling the production of these defensive compounds. Finally, alignments carried out with OsCPSsyn revealed that class II terpene synthases exhibit a sequence conservation pattern substantially different from that of the prototypical class I enzymes. One particularly notable feature is the specific conservation of the functionally cryptic 'insertional' sequence element in class II terpene synthases, indicating that this region is important for the corresponding cyclization reaction.
15255870	We identified 18 putative yellow stripe 1 (YS1)-like genes (OsYSLs) in the rice genome that exhibited 36-76% sequence similarity to maize iron(III)-phytosiderophore transporter YS1. Of particular interest was OsYSL2, the transcripts of which were not detected in the roots of either iron-sufficient or iron-deficient plants, but dramatic expression was induced in the leaves by iron deficiency. Based on the nucleotide sequence, OsYSL2 was predicted to encode a polypeptide of 674 amino acids containing 14 putative transmembrane domains. OsYSL2:green fluorescent protein (GFP) was localized in the plasma membrane of onion epidermal cells. Promoter:beta-glucuronidase (GUS) analysis revealed that OsYSL2 was expressed in companion cells in iron-sufficient roots. GUS activity was increased in companion cells, but no GUS staining was observed in epidermal or cortex cells, even in iron-deficient roots. In the leaves and leaf sheaths of iron-sufficient rice, GUS staining was observed in phloem cells of the vascular bundles. In iron-deficient leaves, the OsYSL2 promoter was active in all tissues with particularly strong GUS activity evident in companion cells. The phloem-specific expression of the OsYSL2 promoter suggests that OsYSL2 is involved in the phloem transport of iron. Strong OsYSL2 promoter activity was also detected in developing seeds. Electrophysiological measurements using Xenopus laevis oocytes showed that OsYSL2 transported iron(II)-nicotianamine (NA) and manganese(II)-NA, but did not transport iron(III)-phyosiderophore. These results suggest that OsYSL2 is a rice metal-NA transporter that is responsible for the phloem transport of iron and manganese, including the translocation of iron and manganese into the grain.
15255873	A library of 29,482 T-DNA enhancer trap lines has been generated in rice cv. Nipponbare. The regions flanking the T-DNA left border from the first 12,707 primary transformants were systematically isolated by adapter anchor PCR and sequenced. A survey of the 7480 genomic sequences larger than 30 bp (average length 250 bp), representing 56.4% of the total readable sequences and matching the rice bacterial artificial chromosome/phage artificial chromosome (BAC/PAC) sequences assembled in pseudomolecules allowed the assigning of 6645 (88.8%) T-DNA insertion sites to at least one position in the rice genome of cv. Nipponbare. T-DNA insertions appear to be rather randomly distributed over the 12 rice chromosomes, with a slightly higher insertion frequency in chromosomes 1, 2, 3 and 6. The distribution of 723 independent T-DNA insertions along the chromosome 1 pseudomolecule did not differ significantly from that of the predicted coding sequences in exhibiting a lower insertion density around the centromere region and a higher density in the subtelomeric regions where the gene density is higher. Further establishment of density graphs of T-DNA inserts along the recently released 12 rice pseudomolecules confirmed this non-uniform chromosome distribution. T-DNA appeared less prone to hot spots and cold spots of integration when compared with those revealed by a concurrent assignment of the Tos17 retrotransposon flanking sequences deposited in the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). T-DNA inserts rarely integrated into repetitive sequences. Based on the predicted gene annotation of chromosome 1, preferential insertion within the first 250 bp from the putative ATG start codon has been observed. Using 4 kb of sequences surrounding the insertion points, 62% of the sequences showed significant similarity to gene encoding known proteins (E-value < 1.00 e(-05)). To illustrate the in silico reverse genetic approach, identification of 83 T-DNA insertions within genes coding for transcription factors (TF) is presented. Based both on the estimated number of members of several large TF gene families (e.g. Myb, WRKY, HD-ZIP, Zinc-finger) and on the frequency of insertions in chromosome 1 predicted genes, we could extrapolate that 7-10% of the rice gene complement is already tagged by T-DNA insertion in the 6116 independent transformant population. This large resource is of high significance while assisting studies unravelling gene function in rice and cereals, notably through in silico reverse genetics.
15256004	Involvement of conservative molecular modules and cellular mechanisms in the widely diversified processes of eukaryotic cell morphogenesis leads to the intriguing question: how do similar proteins contribute to dissimilar morphogenetic outputs. Formins (FH2 proteins) play a central part in the control of actin organization and dynamics, providing a good example of evolutionarily versatile use of a conserved protein domain in the context of a variety of lineage-specific structural and signalling interactions. In order to identify possible plant-specific sequence features within the FH2 protein family, we performed a detailed analysis of angiosperm formin-related sequences available in public databases, with particular focus on the complete Arabidopsis genome and the nearly finished rice genome sequence. This has led to revision of the current annotation of half of the 22 Arabidopsis formin-related genes. Comparative analysis of the two plant genomes revealed a good conservation of the previously described two subfamilies of plant formins (Class I and Class II), as well as several subfamilies within them that appear to predate the separation of monocot and dicot plants. Moreover, a number of plant Class II formins share an additional conserved domain, related to the protein phosphatase/tensin/auxilin fold. However, considerable inter-species variability sets limits to generalization of any functional conclusions reached on a single species such as Arabidopsis. The plant-specific domain context of the conserved FH2 domain, as well as plant-specific features of the domain itself, may reflect distinct functional requirements in plant cells. The variability of formin structures found in plants far exceeds that known from both fungi and metazoans, suggesting a possible contribution of FH2 proteins in the evolution of the plant type of multicellularity.
15256257	Based on elegant molecular genetic analyses, distinct classes of cellulose synthase (CesA) genes have been associated with either primary or secondary cell wall development in Arabidopsis. Here, we report on cloning of two new CesA cDNAs, PtrCesA6 and PtrCesA7 involved in the primary cell wall development in aspen (Populus tremuloides) trees. Both these distinct cDNAs, isolated from a developing xylem cDNA library, share only 60-67% identities with each other as well as with five other previously known aspen CesA cDNAs. Interestingly, PtrCESA6 from aspen, a dicot species, shares maximum identity of 81-84% with three CESA isoforms from maize and rice, two monocot species. On the other hand, PtrCESA7 shares a maximum identity of 86% with AtCESA2, a primary wall-related CesA member from Arabidopsis, a dicot species. Gene expression analyses by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reactions (RT-PCRs) suggested that both these genes are expressed at a low level in all aspen tissues examined but PtrCesA7 is expressed at a higher level than PtrCesA6. While corroborating these results, in situ mRNA hybridization studies using three different aspen organs also suggested that PtrCesA6 and PtrCesA7 genes are expressed in all expanding cells depositing primary cell wall but PtrCesA7 is expressed at a higher level than PtrCesA6. These differential gene expression profiles suggest that each of these CesAs may be playing a specific role during primary cell wall development in aspen trees. Isolation of two primary wall related CesA genes from xylem tissues also suggest their importance during xylem development, which is traditionally considered to be enriched in secondary cell wall forming cells of economical significance.
15256737	We evaluated the effects of pre-germinated brown rice (hatsuga genmai, PGR) on learning and memory and compared them with those of polished rice or cornstarch. In mice that were fed pellets of polished rice or PGR for two weeks, the learning ability in the Morris water maze test was significantly enhanced compared with mice that were fed cornstarch pellets. In the Y-maze test, the intake of food pellets for two weeks failed to affect spontaneous alternation behavior. Beta-amyloid(25-35) (Abeta(25-35): 3 nmol/mouse, i.c.v.) protein impaired spontaneous alternation behavior in mice that were fed pellets of cornstarch or polished rice. In contrast, PGR pellets prevented the Abeta(25-35)-induced impairment of spontaneous alternation behavior. These results suggest that polished rice and PGR have facilitating effects on spatial learning. In particular, it is surmised that PGR may prevent Alzheimer's disease associated with Abeta.
15258153	The ability of rice seedlings to grow from dry seed under anoxia provides a rare opportunity in a multicellular eukaryote to study the stages of mitochondrial biogenesis triggered by oxygen availability. The function and proteome of rice mitochondria synthesized under 6 days of anoxia following 1 day of air adaptation have been compared with mitochondria isolated from 7-day aerobically grown rice seedlings. Rice coleoptiles grown under anoxia, and the mitochondria isolated from them respired very slowly compared with air-adapted and air-grown seedlings. Immunodetection of key mitochondrial protein markers, isoelectric focusing electrophoresis followed by SDS-PAGE to make soluble mitochondria proteome maps, and shotgun sequencing of mitochondrial proteins by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry all revealed similar patterns of the major function categories of mitochondrial proteins from both anoxic and air-adapted samples. Activity analysis showed respiratory oxidases markedly increased in activity during the air adaptation of seedlings. Blue-native electrophoresis followed by SDS-PAGE of mitochondrial membrane proteins clearly showed the very low abundance of assembled b/c complex and cytochrome c(1) oxidase complex in the mitochondrial membrane in anoxic samples and the dramatic increase in the abundance of these complexes on air adaptation. Total heme content, cytochrome absorbance spectra, and the electron carrier, cytochrome c, also increased markedly on air adaptation. These results likely reflect limited heme synthesis for cytochrome assembly in the absence of oxygen and represent a discrete and reversible blockage of full mitochondrial biogenesis in this anoxia-tolerant species.
15258171	Using in silico methods, several putative phytohormone-responsive cis-elements in the Oryza sativa non-symbiotic haemoglobin (NSHB) 1-4 and Arabidopsis thaliana NSHB1-2 promoters have been identified. An OsNSHB2 promoter::GUS reporter gene fusion shows tissue-specific expression in A. thaliana. GUS expression was observed in roots, the vasculature of young leaves, in flowers, and in the pedicel/stem junction. In transient assays, activity of the OsNSHB2 promoter was significantly up-regulated in the presence of the cytokinin, 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). Deletion analyses indicated that the full-length promoter was required for maximal trans-activation in the presence of cytokinin. Mutation of the single cytokinin-regulated ARR1-binding element abolished promoter activation in response to cytokinin. Constitutive expression of ARR1 under the control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter enhanced wild-type OsNSHB2 promoter activity, but had no effect on the activity of the mutated promoter in the absence of cytokinin. However, overexpression of ARR1 in the presence of cytokinin resulted in super-activation of the wild-type promoter. The mutated promoter was only moderately activated in the presence of cytokinin and ARR1, indicating that the OsNSHB2 promoter can be regulated by the ARR1 protein, but requires other cytokinin-induced factors for optimal activation. This is the first report that identifies a trans-acting factor involved in the activation of a NSHB gene.
15259270	The community structure of methanogenic Archaea on anoxically incubated rice roots was investigated by amplification, sequencing, and phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA and methyl-coenzyme M reductase (mcrA) genes. Both genes demonstrated the presence of Methanomicrobiaceae, Methanobacteriaceae, Methanosarcinaceae, Methanosaetaceae, and Rice cluster I, an uncultured methanogenic lineage. The pathway of CH4 formation was determined from the 13C-isotopic signatures of the produced CH4, CO2 and acetate. Conditions and duration of incubation clearly affected the methanogenic community structure and the pathway of CH4 formation. Methane was initially produced from reduction of CO2 exclusively, resulting in accumulation of millimolar concentrations of acetate. Simultaneously, the relative abundance of the acetoclastic methanogens (Methanosarcinaceae, Methanosaetaceae), as determined by T-RFLP analysis of 16S rRNA genes, was low during the initial phase of CH4 production. Later on, however, acetate was converted to CH4 so that about 40% of the produced CH4 originated from acetate. Most striking was the observed relative increase of a population of Methanosarcina spp. (but not of Methanosaeta spp.) briefly before acetate concentrations started to decrease. Both acetoclastic methanogenesis and Methanosarcina populations were suppressed by high phosphate concentrations, as observed under application of different buffer systems. Our results demonstrate the parallel change of microbial community structure and function in a complex environment, i.e., the increase of acetoclastic Methanosarcina spp. when high acetate concentrations become available.
15259616	A field experiment was carried out during Kharif 1999 at experimental farm of CSK HPKV Palampur to check the sensitivity of newly released varieties to herbicides in direct seeded puddled rice. Experiment was conducted in randomized block design with nine treatment combinations each replicated thrice. Treatments consisted of combinations of three-weed control methods viz., two hand weeding, butachlor 2.0 kg/ha and pretilachlor 0.8 kg/ha and three rice varieties RP-2421, HPR-957 and HPR-927. It can be concluded from the study that HPR-957 was sensitive to butachlor 2.0 kg/ha and pretilachlor 0.8 kg/ha herbicides.
15259774	To investigate whether hemocytes of Bombyx mori (Lepidoptera) larvae produce reactive oxygen species (ROS) as part of the oxidative killing of invading pathogens, the production of ROS was measured as a luminol- and lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence of unstimulated or stimulated (zymosan particles, phorbol myristate acetate, calcium ionophore, rice starch or Xenorhabdus nematophila) hemolymph. No detectable ROS production was found. The spontaneous and activated ROS production measured with hemocytes, i.e. under the conditions when the antioxidative potential of hemolymph plasma was eliminated, was again undetectable. Likewise, ROS production by isolated hemocytes was observed by spectrophotometric (NBT test, cytochrome c assay) and fluorimetric (using dihydrorhodamine and hydroethidine probes) methods. Hence none of the experimental approaches used indicated the production of ROS by hemocytes of B. mori larvae as part of their immune response.
15260120	Ruminal fungal isolates (Orpinomyces sp.; C-14, Piromyces sp.; C-15, Orpinomyces sp.; B-13 and Anaeromyces sp.; B-6), were evaluated under anoxic conditions for their effect on in vitro dry matter digestibility, neutral detergent fibre, acid detergent fibre and acid detergent lignin using rice and wheat straw as substrate. There was no significant effect of the fungal isolates on the disappearance of the substrates along with rumen liquor when compared to control. The doses of 10(6) cfu/ml of the isolate were found to have maximum degradation of straws in comparison to the doses of 10(3) cfu/ml.
15261026	The aim of this experiment is to measure the morphological and mechanical properties, and to analyze the relationship between the morphology and lodging resistance of several different kinds of rice stem. Choose the typical species of tall, mid and short stem and hybrid rice, ten individual plants each species (all should be caulis), and when paddies are full heading, intercept the third internode above the ground. The minute structure characteristics include the size of outer diameter, Culm wall thickness, and the number of big and small vascular bundles. Mechanical properties include the tensile breaking point and the tensile elastic modulus. Based on the above characteristics it is concluded that the middle stem has the highest lodging resistance. Thus when we select the high-yield and lodging resistance species, the middle and rigid stem should be considered.
15261084	A microbial consortium of Trichoderma reesei AS3.3711, Aspergillus niger 3.316 and Saccharomyces cerevisiaes AS2.399 was constructed to decomposed rice chaff on the basis of the characters of each microorganism and the mechanism of cellulases. In this experiment, rice chaff was pretreated before fermentation with NaOH so that the lignin structure of rice chaff was degraded and hemicellulose was dissolved partly, which remove the protection of lignin and hemicellulose on cellulose and demolish its special crystal structure. After pretreatment, rice chaff can be degraded more easily with the microbial consortium. The optimal technical paths and technological methods were achieved for intenerating rice chaff with the microbial consortium perfectly through orthogonal experiment. According to the technological methods, some experiments were done at 30 degrees C with pH 4.5. It was found that the highest filter paper enzyme activity (FPA) was 5.64 U/g and the ratio of cellulose degradation (RCD) was 28.05%.
15261422	A dynamic compartment model has been studied to estimate the transfer of radionuclides deposited onto flooded rice-fields after an accidental release. In the model, a surface water compartment and a direct shoot-base absorption from the surface water to the rice-plant, which are major features discriminating the present model from the existing model, has been introduced to account for the flooded condition of rice-fields. The model has been applied to the deposition experiments of 137Cs on rice-fields that were performed at three different times to simulate the deposition before transplanting (May 2) and during the growth of the rice (June 1 and August 12), respectively. In the case of the deposition of May 2, the root-uptake is the most predominant process for transferring 137Cs to the rice-body and grain. When the radionuclide is applied just after transplanting (June 1), the activity of the body is controlled by the shoot-base absorption and the activity of the grain by the root-uptake. The deposition just before ear-emergence (August 12) shows that the shoot-base absorption contributes entirely to the increase of both the activities of the body and grain. The model prediction agrees within one or two factors with the experimental results obtained for a respective deposition experiment.
15261539	Runoff characteristics of nine kinds of herbicides from paddy fields were surveyed in the Kozakura River, that is one of the tributaries flowing into the Lake of Kasumigaura, over a period of 23 April to 30 June (before and after rice transplantation) of year. The flow rates of river water and the concentrations of herbicides in the river water were measured every day in May and every 2 days in April and June at six survey sites along the river. The runoff characteristics of herbicides were elucidated by taking account of the rainfall data, the detailed application data (application date and quantities of herbicides applied to each paddy field in a region), and their physico-chemical properties. The runoff rates (the runoff/application amounts ratio) were calculated for each herbicide, resulting in the range of 8.2-22.4%. The runoff rates were correlated fairly well with octanol-water partition coefficient, logP(ow), rather than with water solubility of herbicides.
15261725	Aluminum toxicity in acidic soils poses a major threat to plant growth and development. The effects of a low dose of aluminum (50 microM, AlCl3) on various cytological parameters, including mitotic and meiotic chromosomal divisions, in situ nuclear DNA content, interphase nuclear volume (INV), and pollen fertility were compared in untreated (controls) and treated rice plants (Oryza sativa cv. Lalat). The results showed varied chromosomal abnormalities, including chromosome stickiness, laggards, sticky bridge, occurrence of micronuclei, as well as binucleate and multinucleated cells, as a result of aluminum treatment. Aluminum toxicity also inhibited to a small extent the growth of the rice cultivar Lalat. The mitotic and meiotic indexes, even after a prolonged period of recovery, were significantly low. The chromosomal anomalies in the meiotic cells persisted, and plants exhibited a high percentage of pollen sterility (approximately 64%). The nuclear DNA content declined markedly from 11.85 pg in the control to 6.30 pg in the treated plants. The INV also varied significantly between the untreated (controls) and the treated plants. The occurrences of different types of chromosomal aberrations, reduction in the amount of nuclear DNA, and persistence of the phytotoxic effects at the post-treatment stage suggest carcinogenic effects of aluminum on rice plants. The presence of aluminum in acidic soils might thus be extremely hazardous and might cause permanent cytotoxic disorder in rice plants.
15261774	Laboratory bioassays (48h duration, 25+/-1 degrees C) were used to determine the toxicity of Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (B.t.i.) and Bacillus sphaericus to fourth instar larvae of Chironomus tepperi, a major pest of rice in southern Australia. Bioassays were conducted using different combinations of larval ages and densities to determine if these factors affected toxicity. The effects of temperature and substrate type on B.t.i. toxicity were also investigated. Tests were conducted using a commercial B.t.i. formulation (VectoBac WDG, 3000ITU/mg), a spore/crystal mixture derived from the VectoBac WDG strain, and VectoLex WDG, a commercial B. sphaericus formulation (650ITU/mg). VectoBac WDG was highly toxic to fourth instar C. tepperi in bioassays using a sand substrate (LC(50) 0.46mg/L, older larvae); younger fourth instar larvae were more susceptible (LC(50) 0.20mg/L). Increasing larval densities (from 10 to 30 per bioassay cup) increased LC(50) values for both age groups, significantly so in the case of older larvae (higher density LC(50) 0.80mg/L). Use of a soil substrate increased the LC(50) value (older larvae, 10 per cup) to 0.99mg/L. Similar differences in toxicity relative to larval age and substrate type were found in bioassays using the B.t.i. spore/crystal mixture. VectoBac WDG and the spore/crystal mixture both showed similar (approximately 6-fold) declines in activity between 30 and 17.5 degrees C. At lower temperatures (between 17.5 and 15 degrees C), activity of the spore/crystal mixture declined much more rapidly than that of VectoBac WDG. VectoLex WDG showed very low toxicity to C. tepperi larvae, and the overall impact of larval age and density was relatively minor (LC(50) values 1062-1340mg/L). Autoclaving VectoLex WDG did not substantially reduce its toxicity (LC(50) 1426mg/L), suggesting that formulation additives (i.e., surfactants and other adjuvants) are responsible for much of the toxicity occurring at the high product concentrations required to cause C. tepperi mortality. Whilst VectoLex WDG was ineffective against C. tepperi, VectoBac WDG has the potential to provide selective control of this rice pest at economically viable application rates.
15262155	The present analysis was initiated to examine possible gender-dependency, geographic variation, and time-dependent changes in dietary intake of cadmium (Cd-F) among general populations in Cd-non-polluted areas in Japan. The role of rice as Cd-F source was also within the scope. Two databases on Cd and nutritional analyses were re-visited. Both databases were established through collection of 24-h food duplicate portion samples from residents in areas with no known Cd pollution, and contained information on Cd and energy contents in the duplicate portion, together with daily rice consumption, the gender, the age and the location of the residence of each sample donor. The first and the second databases were established through surveys in the years around 1980 on 564 cases and around 1995 on 702 cases, respectively. The two databases were combined for evaluation by multiple regression (MRA) and other analyses. The analyses showed that men tended to take more Cd than women, more clearly so in the 1980 survey than in the 1995 survey. When Cd-F in the 1995 survey was compared with that in the 1980 survey, a substantial decrease was observed, e.g. by 30% (from 37.5 to 26.2 microg/day) in case of women. Cd-F values varied subject to the survey sites in a wide range (e.g. from 20 to 86 microg/day among women in the 1980 survey). In MRA with Cd-F as a dependent variable and survey sites and food intake factors (e.g. rice and energy intakes) as independent variables, the survey sites could explain more than 53% and 35% of total variation in Cd-F in the 1980 and 1995 surveys, respectively. Rice consumption was also influential to Cd-F in both surveys with partial correlation coefficients of 0.36 and 0.21, respectively, the influence being stronger in the 1980 survey than in the 1995 survey. A significant correlation was detected between the 1980 and 1995 survey results both in Cd-F and in rice consumption. Geographic and gender-related differences, and time-dependent decrease in dietary Cd intake in Japan were detected through analyses of food duplicate-based databases. The leading role of rice as dietary Cd source was also observed.
15262551
15262820	For the purpose of identifying evolutionary reticulation events in flowering plants, we determine a large number of paired, conserved DNA oligomers that may be used as primers to amplify orthologous DNA regions using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). We develop an initial candidate set by comparing the Arabidopsis and rice genomes using MoBIoS (Molecular Biological Information System). MoBIoS is a metric-space database management system targeting life science data. Through the use of metric-space indexing techniques, two genomes can be compared in O(mlog n), where m and n are the lengths of the genomes, versus O(mn) for BLAST-based analysis. The filtering of low-complexity regions may also be accomplished by directly assessing the uniqueness of the region. We describe mSQL, a SQL extension being developed for MoBIoS that encapsulates the algorithmic details in a common database programming language, shielding end-users from esoteric programming. Available upon request from authors.
1526377	Propanil (3,4-dichloropropionaniline), used extensively as a postemergence herbicide in rice and wheat, has as its major metabolite, 3,4-dichloroaniline (DCA). Propanil has previously been shown to affect the T cell-dependent antibody response. To determine the immunotoxicity of DCA, as well as extend the previous immunotoxicity studies, several T cell-dependent and -independent immune responses were determined after DCA or propanil exposure. Unlike propanil, DCA caused a significant reduction in T-dependent antibody production (anti-SRBC response) only at a high dose (150 mg/kg). DCA or propanil at 150 or 200 mg/kg, respectively, caused a significant reduction in the number of anti-DNP antibody producing cells. However, doses of 37 or 50 mg/kg of DCA or propanil, respectively, caused an increase in the number of anti-DNP antibody producing cells. These data indicate that both propanil and DCA have a differential effect on the T-independent antibody response depending on the dose. Similar to propanil, DCA (at 150 mg/kg) caused a significant increase in spleen weight and cellularity. The effect of DCA or propanil on selected cellular immune functions was also determined. DCA caused a significant decrease in the natural killer (NK) cell activity at doses of 75 or 150 mg/kg, and propanil caused a significant decrease at 100 or 200 mg/kg. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte activity, however, was unaffected even at 150 or 200 mg/kg DCA or propanil, respectively. Thus, it appears that T cells are relatively resistant to the effects of propanil and DCA, whereas, other immune cell types, e.g., NK cells are sensitive to its effects.
15264907	The in vitro inhibitory activity of the rice Bowman-Birk inhibitor (rBBI) or soybean Bowman-Birk inhibitor (sBBI) against trypsin-catalyzed activation of pro-matrix metalloproteinase 1 or 9 (pro-MMP-1 or pro-MMP-9), respectively, was investigated using electrophoresis with silver staining, heparin-enhanced zymography, biotinylated gelatin, Biotrak assay, and fluorescence quenched substrate hydrolysis. rBBI at concentrations of 0.08-0.352 mg/mL dose-dependently inhibited the in vitro activation of 45 microg/mL pro-MMP-1 by trypsin. Heparin-enhanced zymography analysis of pro-MMP-1, trypsin-activated MMP-1, and a mixture of pro-MMP-1-trypsin-rBBI showed clear zones associated with trypsin-activated MMP-1 and the absence of clear zones in lanes containing pro-MMP-1 or a mixture of pro-MMP-1, trypsin, and rBBI. The results of the Biotrak assay also indicated that rBBI dose-dependently suppressed the activation of pro-MMP-1 by trypsin. sBBI dose-dependently inhibited the activation of 100 microg/mL of pro-MMP-9 by trypsin. Biotinylated gelatin assays demonstrated that pro-MMP-9 or pro-MMP-9 in the presence of trypsin and BBI did not hydrolyze gelatin, whereas p-aminophenylmercury acetate (APMA)-activated MMP-9 and trypsin-activated MMP-9 caused significant hydrolysis of gelatin. Quenched fluorescence substrate hydrolysis for total MMP activity showed that pro-MMP-1 or pro-MMP-9 did not hydrolyze the substrate Mca-Pro-Leu-Gly-Leu-Dpa-Ala-Arg-NH2; active MMP-1 or MMP-9 hydrolyzed the substrate, but lower substrate hydrolysis was obtained when pro-MMP-1 or pro-MMP-9 was incubated with trypsin in the presence of increasing concentrations of rBBI. The results are discussed in light of the role of MMP-1 and MMP-9 in the process of angiogenesis and the potential of rBBI or sBBI as a functional food ingredient.
15264919	Two hydroxycinnamate sucrose esters, 6'-O-(E)-feruloylsucrose and 6'-O-(E)-sinapoylsucrose, were isolated from methanol extracts of rice bran. Soluble and insoluble phenolic compounds as well as 6'-O-(E)-feruloylsucrose and 6'-O-(E)-sinapoylsucrose from white rice, brown rice, and germinated brown rice were analyzed using HPLC. The results demonstrated that the content of insoluble phenolic compounds was significantly higher than that of soluble phenolics in rice, whereas almost all compounds identified in germinated brown rice and brown rice were more abundant than those in white rice. 6'-O-(E)-Feruloylsucrose (1.09 mg/100 g of flour) and 6'-O-(E)-sinapoylsucrose (0.41 mg/100 g of flour) were found to be the major soluble phenolic compounds in brown rice. During germination, an approximately 70% decrease was observed in the content of the two hydroxycinnamate sucrose esters, whereas free phenolic acid content increased significantly; the ferulic acid content of brown rice (0.32 mg/100 g of flour) increased to 0.48 mg/100 g of flour and became the most abundant phenolic compound in germinated brown rice. The content of sinapinic acid increased to 0.21 mg/100 g of flour, which is nearly 10 times as much as that in brown rice (0.02 mg/100 g of flour). In addition, the total content of insoluble phenolic compounds increased from 18.47 mg/100 g of flour in brown rice to 24.78 mg/100 g of flour in germinated brown rice. These data suggest that appropriate germination of brown rice may be a method to improve health-related benefits.
15265432	The cascade of physiological events underlying hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) remains to be fully established. The perinatal brain shows both an increased tolerance to hypoxic-ischemic (HI) injury and a faster and more complete recovery than the adult. It is, therefore, important to understand the sequence of events following hypoxia and ischemia in young animals. The present study aimed to clarify the time-course of the activation of the mu-calpain, and the expression of c-Fos, c-Jun, HSP70 and HSP27 proteins following severe HI (2 h hypoxia) and their relationship with each other. A modified newborn rat model of HIBD that included a combination of hypoxia and ischemia as described by Rice was used. Forty-two postnatal 7-day-old Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into seven groups (6 rats in each): 6 time-window groups and a normal control group. Samples were collected at 0, 1, 2, 4, 12 and 24 h after HI insults. The protein concentration was determined using a modified Bradford assay. mu-calpain activation, c-Fos, c-Jun, HSP70 and HSP27 expressions were observed respectively by Western blot from cortical and hippocampal samples. The cleavage of cytosolic mu-calpain was observed from both cortical and hippocampal samples in neonatal rats after HI. The ratio 76:80 of mu-calpain was increased significantly post-HI and reached a maximum at 24 h in cortex and at 12 h in hippocampus after HI. The expressions of c-Fos and c-Jun from both cortical and hippocampal samples in neonatal rats were up-regulated and peaked at 2 or 4 h after HI, demonstrating significant differences at 1, 2, 4, and 12 h compared with that observed in the control (P < 0.05). When compared with that observed in cortex, the nuclear c-Fos expression from hippocampal samples was highly elevated at 2, 4 and 12 h but significantly decreased at 24 h after HI (P < 0.05), while the nuclear c-Jun expression from hippocampal samples was highly elevated at 0 and 1 h but significantly decreased at 4 and 24 h after HI (P < 0.05). Similarly, the expressions of HSP70 and HSP27 from both cortical and hippocampal samples were up-regulated and reached a maximum at 12 or 24 h after HI, demonstrating significant differences at 12 or 24 h both in cortex and hippocampus for HSP70, and at 24 h in cerebral cortex as well as at 12 and 24 h in hippocampus for HSP27 compared with the control (P < 0.05). Furthermore, in comparison with that observed in cortex, the HSP70 expression from hippocampal samples was highly elevated at 1 h, but significantly decreased at 4, 12 and 24 h after HI (P < 0.05), while the HSP27 expression was permanently elevated in hippocampus after HI. The neuronal injury induced by HI insults appears to involve many ongoing and simultaneous mechanisms. HI activates the calpains immediately, which may contribute to neuron apoptosis, and induces a significant brain neuroprotection, since there is an increased HSP70 expression and a relatively late remarkable HSP27 expression in hypoxic-ischemic neonatal rat brain. Nuclear c-Fos and c-Jun may participate in the pathogenesis of HIBD.
15266050	High-throughput genotype screening is rapidly becoming a standard research tool in the post-genomic era. A major bottleneck currently exists, however, that limits the utility of this approach in the plant sciences. The rate-limiting step in current high-throughput pipelines is that tissue samples from living plants must be collected manually, one plant at a time. In this article I describe a novel method for harvesting tissue samples from living seedlings that eliminates this bottleneck. The method has been named Ice-Cap to reflect the fact that ice is used to capture the tissue samples. The planting of seeds, growth of seedlings, and harvesting of tissue are all performed in a 96-well format. I demonstrate the utility of this system by using tissue harvested by Ice-Cap to genotype a population of Arabidopsis seedlings that is segregating a previously characterized mutation. Because the harvesting of tissue is performed in a nondestructive manner, plants with the desired genotype can be transferred to soil and grown to maturity. I also show that Ice-Cap can be used to analyze genomic DNA from rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings. It is expected that this method will be applicable to high-throughput screening with many different plant species, making it a useful technology for performing marker assisted selection.
15266052	The Fabaceae, the third largest family of plants and the source of many crops, has been the target of many genomic studies. Currently, only the grasses surpass the legumes for the number of publicly available expressed sequence tags (ESTs). The quantity of sequences from diverse plants enables the use of computational approaches to identify novel genes in specific taxa. We used BLAST algorithms to compare unigene sets from Medicago truncatula, Lotus japonicus, and soybean (Glycine max and Glycine soja) to nonlegume unigene sets, to GenBank's nonredundant and EST databases, and to the genomic sequences of rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis. As a working definition, putatively legume-specific genes had no sequence homology, below a specified threshold, to publicly available sequences of nonlegumes. Using this approach, 2,525 legume-specific EST contigs were identified, of which less than three percent had clear homology to previously characterized legume genes. As a first step toward predicting function, related sequences were clustered to build motifs that could be searched against protein databases. Three families of interest were more deeply characterized: F-box related proteins, Pro-rich proteins, and Cys cluster proteins (CCPs). Of particular interest were the >300 CCPs, primarily from nodules or seeds, with predicted similarity to defensins. Motif searching also identified several previously unknown CCP-like open reading frames in Arabidopsis. Evolutionary analyses of the genomic sequences of several CCPs in M. truncatula suggest that this family has evolved by local duplications and divergent selection.
15266053	DNA polymorphism is the basis to develop molecular markers that are widely used in genetic mapping today. A genome-wide rice (Oryza sativa) DNA polymorphism database has been constructed in this work using the genomes of Nipponbare, a cultivar of japonica, and 93-11, a cultivar of indica. This database contains 1,703,176 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 479,406 Insertion/Deletions (InDels), approximately one SNP every 268 bp and one InDel every 953 bp in rice genome. Both SNPs and InDels in the database were experimentally validated. Of 109 randomly selected SNPs, 107 SNPs (98.2%) are accurate. PCR analysis indicated that 90% (97 of 108) of InDels in the database could be used as molecular markers, and 68% to 89% of the 97 InDel markers have polymorphisms between other indica cultivars (Guang-lu-ai 4 and Long-te-pu B) and japonica cultivars (Zhong-hua 11 and 9522). This suggests that this database can be used not only for Nipponbare and 93-11, but also for other japonica and indica cultivars. While validating InDel polymorphisms in the database, a set of InDel markers with each chromosome 3 to 5 marker was developed. These markers are inexpensive and easy to use, and can be used for any combination of japonica and indica cultivars used in this work. This rice DNA polymorphism database will be a valuable resource and important tool for map-based cloning of rice gene, as well as in other various research on rice (http://shenghuan.shnu.edu.cn/ricemarker).
15266600	The present study describes the biosynthesis of proteases by a locally isolated mould culture of Rhizopus oligosporus IHS13 in a low-cost medium by solid-state fermentation technique. The fermentation was carried out in a low-cost medium such as sunflower meal, wheat bran and rice bran. Sunflower meal and wheat bran in a ratio of 1:1 and moistened with distilled water was found to be the best substrate for protease synthesis. All the three substrates are very cheap agricultural by-products found in Pakistan. The production of proteases in sunflower meal and rice bran was also investigated but the results were unsatisfactory. Different cultural conditions such as rate of fermentation, effect of incubation temperature, effect of pH and depth of the fermentation medium were also optimized. The maximum enzyme synthesis was found after 72 h of fermentation at a temperature of 30 degrees C. The optimum pH and depth of the medium for protease synthesis were found to be 5.0 and 20 mm respectively. The maximum enzyme biosynthesis found during the course of present studies was 7.0 U ml(-1).
15266720	An unknown signal at 2.93 ppm in 1H-NMR spectra of rice, Oryza sativa, was assigned to the methyl groups of sulphur-methylmethionine (SMM), thereby devising a new method for the determination of this compound. Rice seedlings growing aerobically in the dark and in the light engaged for the synthesis of SMM an amount of Met corresponding to 23 and 8%, respectively, of the total seed reserves of this amino acid. In etiolated shoots, SMM reached 1.2 micromol g(-1) fresh weight, an unusually high level in vegetative tissues of wild-type plants. This is compared to a value of 0.4 micromol g(-1) fresh weight in green tissues. A decreased demand for Met during growth caused the higher accumulation of SMM in etiolated, rather than green, tissues. At the same time, dark seedlings were endowed with a readily utilizable and translocable alternative form of Met, as shown by retrieval of SMM from the coleoptile. The importance of methyl group storage in SMM is shown by comparison with choline and choline phosphate pools.
15266755	In late 1999 and early 2000, an outbreak of hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) occurred in and around Los Santos, on the Azuero Peninsula of southwestern Panamá. This HPS episode, resulting in 22% case fatality, was linked to the Costa Rican pigmy rice rat, Oligoryzomys fulvescens costaricensis, which harbored a then undescribed hantavirus, Choclo virus. In addition, Cherrie's cane rat, Zygodontomys brevicauda cherriei, was identified as carrying a distinct hantavirus, Calabazo virus with no known pathogenicity to humans. Herein we present the ecological results of the outbreak investigations in the Azuero region. A total of 164 animals were captured, of which 126 were potential small, non-volant mammal hosts of a hantavirus: rodents in the family Muridae. There were significant differences in small mammal community structure between case sites and a negative control site. Differences were manifest in ecological measures of species diversity and in species evenness and heterogeneity measures, as indicated by Pairwise Euclidian distances and Morisita indices of community similarity. Our analyses suggest that human activities (i.e., deforestation for cattle ranching) coupled with environmental factors (i.e., increased precipitation) may have synergistically coalesced for an increased risk of HPS to area residents.
15266910	Ganoderma lucidum, a white rot fungus, was exploited for its potentials to produce xylanase employing shake and solid-state culture conditions. Different culture conditions such as pH, temperature, carbon and nitrogen requirements for its growth and production of xylanase were optimized. The culture media pH 6.0-7.0 and temperatures 30 degrees-35 degrees C significantly promoted the growth as well as xylanase secretion into the media. Xylan and peptone were found to be the suitable carbon and nitrogen sources. Among the different agrowastes used, wheat bran was found to be the best substrate for the test fungus for the production of xylanase than sugarcane bagasse and rice bran in solid-state fermentation.
15266918	A new second generation anticoagulant rodenticide, difethialone (0.0025%), was evaluated in the rice fields at three different cropping stages, viz. Milky, Panicle formation and Panicle maturation, during Kuruvai and Thaladi seasons. The difethailone (0.0025%) yielded satisfactory control success suggesting a great potential as a rodenticide especially in the early stages of rice.
15267140	Most phenolic substances of plant origin are toxic to microorganisms and they confer some degree of protection to plants against phytopathogens. Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, bacterial blight pathogen of rice (Oryza sativa) was treated with phenol (monohydroxy benzene) and its effects on the morphology and cytological changes of the bacterium were studied. Total lysis of cells occurred with 5 mM conc of phenol while at 2 mM conc, the cell walls became rough and cell contents started shrinking. Plasmids isolated from both treated (2 mM) and control cells did not show any marked difference under electron microscope except that they differed in their quantity and might influence pathogenicity.
15267271	Infrared-induced conformational isomerization of N-acetyl-tryptophan methyl amide is studied theoretically using a microcanonical Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus description of the rates on potential energy surfaces calculated using the AMBER and OPLS-AA force fields. The results are compared with the experimental data from Dian et al. in the preceding paper [J. Chem. Phys. 120, 133 (2004)]. An exhaustive search of the potential energy surfaces locates all minima and transition states on these surfaces. A simple model is proposed for the vibrational cooling, and an appropriate cooling rate is chosen as the standard conditions for the master equation simulations by comparison with experiment. The two potential energy surfaces differ in the relative energies of minima and the heights of key transition states, leading to differences in the dominant pathways and rates of conformational isomerization. The predicted quantum yields depend sensitively on the cooling rate, varying from the slow cooling limit in which equilibrium populations are achieved to the fast quenching limit in which conformational isomerization is shut off. The excitation energy is varied from 5 to 20 kcal mol(-1). At the lowest energies, isomerization is completely quenched, while at the highest energies, equilibrium conditions are achieved. In between these extremes, the quantum yields are sensitive to the excitation energy, and can be used to locate the rate-limiting barriers to isomerization.
15267277	The proton transfer reaction of H3O+ and NH3 was studied using the crossed molecular beam technique at relative energies of 0.41, 0.81, and 1.27 eV. At all three energies, the center-of-mass flux distribution of the product ion NH4+ exhibits sharply asymmetry, and the maximum is close to the velocity and direction of the precursor ammonia beam. The reaction transforms almost all of the 1.69 eV exothermicity into internal excitation of the products at all three collision energies. At the lowest collision energy of 0.41 eV, nearly 77% of the total energy appears in NH4+ internal excitation. However, almost 100% of the incremental translational energy in the two higher-energy experiments appears in the product translational energy. Such an observation provides a classic example of the "induced repulsive energy release" mechanism that is expected to be operative on the highly skewed potential energy surfaces characteristic of the heavy+light-heavy mass combination. These results indicate that the proton transfer proceeds through a direct reaction mechanism; a Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory calculation shows that the lifetime of the intermediate complex [NH3-H-H2O]+ is about 100 fs. Proton transfer occurs early on the reaction coordinate, when the incipient N-H bond is extended, and results in highly vibrationally excited NH4+ products, with excitation primarily in N-H stretching modes.
15267381	Two-pulse selective photochemistry that exploits population transfer via adiabatic passage is considered for the case that there are degenerate product states with different lifetimes. As an example, a four-level model system with a complex symmetric Hamiltonian is constructed. Analytical and numerical studies of this model system demonstrate that extensive control over the product branching ratio can be achieved by detuning either the pump pulse or the Stokes pulse while maintaining negligible population in the intermediate state. This control approach represents a significant simplification of both the Kobrak-Rice extended stimulated Raman adiabatic passage scheme and the Chen-Shapiro-Brumer strong-field control scheme.
15267548	This paper reports the first quantitative ab initio prediction of the disproportionation/combination ratio of alkyl+alkyl reactions using CH3+C2H5 as an example. The reaction has been investigated by the modified Gaussian-2 method with variational transition state or Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations for several channels producing (1) CH4+CH2CH2, (2) C3H8, (3) CH4CH3CH, (4) H2+CH3CHCH2, (5) H2+CH3CCH3, and (6) C2H6+CH2 by H-abstraction and association/decomposition mechanisms through singlet and triplet potential energy paths. Significantly, the disproportionation reaction (1) producing CH4+C2H4 was found to occur primarily by the lowest energy path via a loose hydrogen-bonding singlet molecular complex, H3CHC2H4, with a 3.5 kcal/mol binding energy and a small decomposition barrier (1.9 kcal/mol), instead of a direct H-abstraction process. Bimolecular reaction rate constants for the formation of the above products have been calculated in the temperature range 300-3000 K. At 1 atm, formation of C3H8 is dominant below 1200 K. Over 1200 K, the disproportionation reaction becomes competitive. The sum of products (3)-(6) accounts for less than 0.3% below 1500 K and it reaches around 1%-4% above 2000 K. The predicted rate constant for the disproportionation reaction with multiple reflections above the complex well, k1=5.04 x T(0.41) exp(429/T) at 200-600 K and k1=1.96 x 10(-20) T(2.45) exp(1470/T) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1) at 600-3000 K, agrees closely with experimental values. Similarly, the predicted high-pressure rate constants for the combination reaction forming C3H8 and its reverse dissociation reaction in the temperature range 300-3000 K, k2(infinity)=2.41 x 10(-10) T(-0.34) exp(259/T) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1) and k(-2)(infinity)=8.89 x 10(22) T(-1.67)exp(-46 037/T) s(-1), respectively, are also in good agreement with available experimental data.
15267601	The ab initio/Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) approach has been applied to investigate the photodissociation mechanism of benzene at various wavelengths upon absorption of one or two UV photons followed by internal conversion into the ground electronic state. Reaction pathways leading to various decomposition products have been mapped out at the G2M level and then the RRKM and microcanonical variational transition state theories have been applied to compute rate constants for individual reaction steps. Relative product yields (branching ratios) for C(6)H(5)+H, C(6)H(4)+H(2), C(4)H(4)+C(2)H(2), C(4)H(2)+C(2)H(4), C(3)H(3)+C(3)H(3), C(5)H(3)+CH(3), and C(4)H(3)+C(2)H(3) have been calculated subsequently using both numerical integration of kinetic master equations and the steady-state approach. The results show that upon absorption of a 248 nm photon dissociation is too slow to be observable in molecular beam experiments. In photodissociation at 193 nm, the dominant dissociation channel is H atom elimination (99.6%) and the minor reaction channel is H(2) elimination, with the branching ratio of only 0.4%. The calculated lifetime of benzene at 193 nm is about 11 micros, in excellent agreement with the experimental value of 10 micros. At 157 nm, the H loss remains the dominant channel but its branching ratio decreases to 97.5%, while that for H(2) elimination increases to 2.1%. The other channels leading to C(3)H(3)+C(3)H(3), C(5)H(3)+CH(3), C(4)H(4)+C(2)H(2), and C(4)H(3)+C(2)H(3) play insignificant role but might be observed. For photodissociation upon absorption of two UV photons occurring through the neutral "hot" benzene mechanism excluding dissociative ionization, we predict that the C(6)H(5)+H channel should be less dominant, while the contribution of C(6)H(4)+H(2) and the C(3)H(3)+C(3)H(3), CH(3)+C(5)H(3), and C(4)H(3)+C(2)H(3) radical channels should significantly increase.
15267651	A picosecond time-resolved IR-UV pump-probe spectroscopic study has been carried out for investigating the intracluster vibrational energy redistribution (IVR) and subsequent dissociation of hydrogen-bonded clusters of phenol (C6H5OH) and partially deuterated phenol (C6D5OH, phenol-d5) with various solvent molecules. The H-bonded OH stretching vibration was pumped by a picosecond IR pulse, and the transient S1-S0 UV spectra from the pumped level as well as the redistributed levels were observed with a picosecond UV laser. Two types of hydrogen-bonded clusters were investigated with respect to the effect of the H-bonding strength on the energy flow process: the first is of a strong "sigma-type H-bond" such as phenol-(dimethyl ether)(n=1) and phenol dimer, and the second is phenol-(ethylene)(n=1) having a weak "pi-type H-bond." It was found that the population of the IR-pumped OH level exhibits a single-exponential decay, whose rate increases with the H-bond strength. On the other hand, the transient UV spectrum due to the redistributed levels showed a different time evolutions at different monitoring UV frequency. From an analysis of the time profiles of the transient UV spectra, the following three-step scheme has been proposed for describing the energy flow starting from the IVR of the initially excited H-bonded OH stretching level to the dissociation of the H bond. (1) The intramolecular vibrational energy redistribution takes place within the phenolic site, preparing a hot phenol. (2) The energy flows from the hot phenol to the intermolecular vibrational modes of the cluster. (3) Finally, the hydrogen bond dissociates. Among the three steps, the rate constant of the first step was strongly dependent on the H-bond strength, while the rate constants of the other two steps were almost independent of the H-bond strength. For the dissociation of the hydrogen bond, the observed rate constants were compared with those calculated by the Rice, Ramsperger, Kassel, and Marcus model. The result suggests that dissociation of the hydrogen bond takes place much faster than complete energy randomization within the clusters.
15267779	The effects on the title reaction of collision energy (E(col)) and five H(2)CO(+) vibrational modes have been studied over a center-of-mass E(col) range from 0.1 to 2.3 eV. Electronic structure and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations were used to examine properties of various complexes and transition states that might be important. Only the hydrogen abstraction (HA) product channel is observed, and despite being exoergic, HA has an appearance energy of approximately 0.4 eV, consistent with a transition state found in the electronic structure calculations. A precursor complex-mediated mechanism might possibly be involved at very low E(col), but the dominant mechanism is direct over the entire E(col) range. The magnitude of the HA cross section is strongly, and mode specifically affected by H(2)CO(+) vibrational excitation, however, vibrational energy has no effect on the appearance energy.
15268017	Two advantageous roles of the influence of measurement on a system subject to coherent control are exposed using a five-level model system. In particular, a continuous measurement of the population in a branch state in the Kobrak-Rice extended stimulated Raman adiabatic passage scheme is shown to provide a powerful means for controlling the population transfer branching ratio between two degenerate target states. It is demonstrated that a measurement with a large strength may be used to completely shut off the yield of one target state and that the same measurement with a weak strength can dramatically enhance the robustness of the controlled branching ratio against dephasing.
15268069	First-principles calculations based on the generalized gradient approximation to the density functional theory are performed to explore the global geometries, ground-state spin multiplicities, relative stabilities, and energetics of neutral and anionic V(n)(Bz)(m) (n=1-3, m=1-4, with n<m) complexes. The calculated results show that the V(n)(benzene)(m) complexes clearly prefer sandwich structures to rice-ball structures. The ground-state spin multiplicities of the V(n)(benzene)(n+1) complexes increased linearly with the size of the system (i.e., n). In the anionic complexes, the V(benzene)(2) complex is found to be unstable against the autodetachment of the extra electron. The energy difference between adiabatic and vertical electron affinities is found to be very less, indicating negligible ionization-induced structural changes in the ground-state geometries of V(n)(benzene)(n+1) complexes.
15269388	The protein p25 encoded by beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV) RNA-3 is involved in symptom expression of infected plants. Confocal microscopy analysis of wild-type and mutated p25 fused to GFP and transiently expressed in BY-2 tobacco suspension cells identified a nuclear localization signal (NLS) in the N-terminal part of the protein. Functionality of the NLS was confirmed by pull-down assays using rice and pepper importin-alpha. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that p25 contains a nuclear export sequence sensitive to leptomycin B. The nuclear export signal (NES) was characterized by mutagenesis. A GFP-p25 fusion protein expressed during a BNYVV infection of Chenopodium quinoa leaves had the same subcellular localization as observed during transient expression in BY-2 cells. The symptom phenotype induced by expression of GFP-p25 during infection was similar to that induced by wild-type virus. Studies with mutated derivatives of GFP-p25 revealed that symptom phenotype was altered when the subcellular localization of GFP-p25 was modified.
15269439	Although more than 25,000 genes of Arabidopsis thaliana have been sequenced and mapped, adequate expression or functional information is available for less than 15% of them. In the case of Oryza sativa (rice), about half of more than 55,000 predicted genes have been assigned to a vague functional category on the basis of their sequence, but fewer than 100 have been ascribed a precise, verified function after the identification of a mutant phenotype caused by the molecular disruption of the corresponding gene. Enhancer detection and gene trapping represent insertional mutagenesis strategies that report random expression of many genes and often generate loss-of-function mutations. Several trapping vectors have been designed in a limited number of species, and large-scale enhancer detection and gene trap screens that aim to generate a wide range of spatially and temporally restricted expression patterns have been initiated in both Arabidopsis and rice. These strategies are proving to be essential to the functional annotation of completely sequenced genomes, enabling the analysis of gene function in the context of the entire plant life cycle and substantially expanding our understanding of plant growth and development.
15269524	Reverse transcription followed by RT Q-PCR is useful for the systematic measurement of changes in gene expression. RT Q-PCR with two pairs of primers for each gene was used for relative expression of three genes with high homology encoding 3-hydroxy-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGR) in rice. At various growth stages of etiolated seedling and various times after UV-irradiation treatment, RT Q-PCR of each HMGR gene showed a consistent pattern of relative expression with the RT Q-PCR data, using two pairs of primers, giving a high degree of accuracy. Furthermore, the different expression levels of three HMGR genes in a sample were determined by diluting the cDNA concentration. These results indicate that RT Q-PCR with only one pair of primers for a gene can quantify the relative expression and that the high expression level of HMGR2 could be quantified in comparison to the low level of HMGR1 expression.
15272084	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an extensive class of tiny RNA molecules that regulate the expression of target genes by means of complementary base pair interactions. Although the first miRNAs were discovered in Caenorhabditis elegans, >300 miRNAs were recently documented in animals and plants, both by cloning methods and computational predictions. We present a genome-wide computational approach to detect miRNA genes in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome. Our method is based on the conservation of short sequences between the genomes of Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa) and on properties of the secondary structure of the miRNA precursor. The method was fine-tuned to take into account plant-specific properties, such as the variable length of the miRNA precursor sequences. In total, 91 potential miRNA genes were identified, of which 58 had at least one nearly perfect match with an Arabidopsis mRNA, constituting the potential targets of those miRNAs. In addition to already known transcription factors involved in plant development, the targets also comprised genes involved in several other cellular processes, such as sulfur assimilation and ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. These findings considerably broaden the scope of miRNA functions in plants.
15272601	In 1998, a typhoon struck before rice harvesting in Japan, and the unpolished rice was found to be stained brown. Samples were collected and analyzed for the presence of trichothecenes using GC/MS. The mycotoxins deoxynivalenol (DON), fusarenon-X (Fus.-X) and nivalenol (NIV) were detected and confirmed with GC/MS. The quantity of trichothecenes was determined using GC-ECD. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the presence of the trichothecene Fus.-X in rice.
1527358	Paddy (unmilled rice), milled rice and maize-bound 14C residues were prepared using 14C-succinate-labelled malathion at 10 and 152 ppm. After 3 months, the bound residues accounted for 12%, 6.5% and 17.7% of the applied dose in paddy, milled rice and maize respectively in the grains treated at 10 ppm. The corresponding values for the 152 ppm were 16.6%, 8.5% and 18.8%. Rats fed milled rice - bound 14C-residues eliminated 61% of the 14C in the faeces and 28% in the urine. The corresponding percentages for paddy and maize were 72%, 9% and 53%, 41% respectively; indicating that bound residues from milled rice and maize were moderately bioavailable. When rice-bound malathion residues (0.65 ppm in feed) were administered to rats in a 5 week feeding study, no signs of toxicity were observed. Plasma and RBC cholinesterase activities were slightly inhibited: blood urea nitrogen was significantly elevated in the test animals. Other parameters examined showed no or marginal changes.
15273789	Dentin hypersensitivity is a common painful condition observed in clinics. Dietary habits have been much associated with its development and persistence during and following periodontal treatment. The aim of this in vitro study was to evaluate the influence of vinegars on the removal of smear layer and exposure of dentinal tubules. Extracted human teeth were submitted to manual scaling with Gracey curettes in order to remove the cementum as well as to form a smear layer. Dentin samples with 3 mm(2) were obtained and distributed into six experimental groups: one control and five types of vinegars (alcohol, apple, rice, white wine and balsamic). Each group included two methods of vinegar application: topical and friction. After routine preparation for SEM analysis, photomicrographs were assessed by a calibrated and blind examiner using an appropriate index system. Kruskal-Wallis test indicated a significant influence of vinegars on smear layer removal. There was a statistically significant difference between groups treated with apple, white and rice vinegars and the control group (p < 0.05). Nevertheless, Mann-Whitney test indicated that removal of smear layer did not vary with the method of application (topical versus friction) for any of the tested substances. We can conclude that the contact of vinegar may remove smear layer and expose dentinal tubules, regardless of the type of application. However, balsamic vinegar was associated with less removal of smear layer after both methods of application.
15275482	Babesia bovis is an economically important hemoprotozoon parasite o f cattle that is prevalent in many, tropical and subtropical regions o f the world. Effective vaccines against this tick-transmitted parasite consist o f live organisms attenuated by passage through splenectomized calves. However, the nature o f acquired resistance to challenge infection with heterologous isolates of this parasite has not been clearly defined. Unsuccessful attempts to select protective antigens have relied upon the use of antibodies to identify immunodominant proteins. In this review, Wendy Brown and Allison Rice-Ficht discuss the limitations of this approach and the rationale behind using helper T cells to select potential vaccine antigens.
15276429	Rice is the most important cereal crop in Asia, and is considered as a model cereal plant for genetic and molecular studies. An immense progress has been made in rice genome sequence analysis during the last decade. This prompted the researcher to identify the functions, modifications, and regulations of every encoded protein. Proteome analysis provides information to predict the translation and relative concentration of gene products, including the extent of modification, none of which can be accurately predicted from the nucleic acid sequence alone. During the last couple of years, considerable researches were conducted to analyze rice proteome, and only recently a remarkable progress has been made to systematically analyze and characterize the functional role of various tissues and organelles in rice. In this review, the rice proteomic research has been compiled and also presented a comprehensive analysis of rice nuclear proteins. In rice nucleus, 549 proteins were resolved using 2D-PAGE. Among them, 257 proteins were systematically analyzed by Edman sequencing and mass spectrometry and identified 190 proteins following database searching (http://gene64.dna.affrc.go.jp/RPD/main.html). The identified proteins were sorted into different functional categories. In these data, the proteins involved in signaling and gene regulations dominated others, reflecting the role of nucleus in gene expression and regulation.
15276431	The development of mitochondria and the integration of their function within a plant cell rely on the presence of a complex biochemical machinery located within their limiting membranes. The aim of the present work was: (1) to enhance our understanding of the biochemical machinery of mitochondrial membranes and (2) to test the versatility of the procedure developed for the identification of the hydrophobic proteome of the chloroplast envelope [Molecular and Cellular Proteomics 2 (2003) 325-345]. A proteomic analysis was performed, to provide the most exhaustive view of the protein repertoire of these membranes. For this purpose, highly purified mitochondria were prepared from Arabidopsis cultured cells and membrane proteins were extracted. To get a more exhaustive array of membrane proteins from Arabidopsis mitochondria, from the most to the less hydrophobic ones, various extraction procedures (chloroform/methanol extraction, alkaline or saline treatments) were applied. LC-MS/MS analyses were then performed on each membrane subfraction, leading to the identification of more than 110 proteins. The identification of these proteins is discussed with respect to their mitochondrial localization, their physicochemical properties and their implications in the metabolism of mitochondria. In order to provide a new overview of the biochemical machinery of the plant mitochondria, proteins identified during this work were compared to the lists of proteins identified during previous proteomic analyses performed on plant and algae mitochondria (Arabidopsis, pea, Chlamydomonas, rice, etc.). A total of 502 proteins are listed. About 40% of the 114 proteins identified during this work were not identified during previous proteomic studies performed on mitochondria.
15276442	Highly purified mitochondria were isolated from green 7-day-old rice leaves. The mitochondria were sonicated and the matrix fraction isolated as the 100,000g supernatant. Part of the matrix fraction was left untreated while the other part was subjected to a mild oxidative treatment (0.5 mM H2O2+0.2 mM CuSO4 for 10 min at room temperature). The oxidised proteins in both samples were tagged with dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNP), which forms a covalent bond with carbonyl groups. The DNP-tagged proteins were immunoprecipitated using anti-DNP antibodies and digested with trypsin. The mixture of peptides was analysed by nano-HPLC coupled online to an ESI-Quad-TOF mass spectrometer. The peptides were separated by stepwise ion exchange chromatography followed by reverse phase chromatography (2D-LC), and analysed by MS/MS. Proteins were identified by un-interpreted fragment ion database searches. Using this approach we identified 20 oxidised proteins in the control sample and a further 32 in the oxidised sample. Western blots of 2D-gels of the same samples prior to immunoprecipitation verified that the oxidation treatment increases protein oxidation also for specific proteins. Likewise Western blots showed that neither the isolation of mitochondria nor their subfractionation introduced carbonyl groups. We therefore conclude that a number of proteins are oxidised in the matrix of rice leaf mitochondria in vivo and further identify a group of proteins that are particularly susceptible to mild oxidation in vitro.
15276456	We have established a proteome reference map for maize (Zea mays L.) endosperm by means of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and protein identification with LC-MS/MS analysis. This investigation focussed on proteins in major spots in a 4-7 pI range and 10-100 kDa M(r) range. Among the 632 protein spots processed, 496 were identified by matching against the NCBInr and ZMtuc-tus databases (using the SEQUEST software). Forty-two per cent of the proteins were identified against maize sequences, 23% against rice sequences and 21% against Arabidopsis sequences. Identified proteins were not only cytoplasmic but also nuclear, mitochondrial or amyloplastic. Metabolic processes, protein destination, protein synthesis, cell rescue, defense, cell death and ageing are the most abundant functional categories, comprising almost half of the 632 proteins analyzed in our study. This proteome map constitutes a powerful tool for physiological studies and is the first step for investigating the maize endosperm development.
15277750	Several types of jasomonic acid (JA) derivatives, including JA--amino acid conjugates, a JA--biotin conjugate, a JA--dexamethasone heterodimer, and a JA-fluoresceine conjugate, were prepared as candidates for molecular probes to identify JA--binding proteins. These JA derivatives, excepting the JA--fluoresceine conjugate, exhibited significant biological activities in a rice seedling assay, a rice phytoalexin-inducing assay, and/or a soybean phenylalanine ammonia-lyase-inducing assay. These JA derivatives could therefore be useful probes for identifying JA--binding proteins. The activity spectra of the prepared compounds were different from each other, suggesting that different types of JA receptors were involved in the perception of JA derivatives in the respective bioassays.
15277775	The acid phosphatase gene from lupin was expressed in transgenic rice plants under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter or rice chlorophyll a/b binding protein (Cab) promoter. Transgenic rice leaves exhibited up to an 18-fold increase in phytate-hydrolyzing activity. Based on the phytate-hydrolyzing activity at pH 5.5, more than 85% this activity was retained after heat-treatment at 80 degrees C for 15 min, and the heterologous enzyme in leaf sections and leaf extracts was relatively stable during storage. A distinct increase in released phosphate was observed when the heterologous enzyme was mixed with the feed extract. These results suggest that the heterologous enzyme in rice plants may maintain its desired characteristics as a phytate-hydrolyzing enzyme when added to animal feed.
15277776	Coronatine (1), its synthetic analogs (6-13) and jasmonic acid induced various volatiles in rice leaves. In the range of 0.01-0.1 mM, dihydrocoronatine (7) exhibited 4-687 times higher activity for linalool emission than that of 1. The radioactive derivative of 7, [4,5-3H]-7, was employed to identify the putative coronatine-binding protein in rice leaves. 7 would be a promising candidate for a chemical probe to study cornatine-binding protein related to the jasmonoid and octadecanoid signaling pathway in higher plants. A detailed study of coronatine-binding protein in rice leaves and cell culture with [4,5-3H]-7 is now in progress.
15277862
15278284	Host-plant resistance is the preferred strategy for management of Asian rice gall midge (Orseolia oryzae), a serious pest in many rice-growing countries. The deployment of molecular markers linked to gall midge resistance genes in breeding programmes can accelerate the development of resistant cultivars. In the present study, we have tagged and mapped a dominant gall midge resistance gene, Gm1, from the Oryza sativa cv. W1263 on chromosome 9, using SSR markers. A progeny-tested F2 mapping population derived from the cross W1263/TN1 was used for analysis. To map the gene locus, initially a subset of the F2 mapping population consisting of 20 homozygous resistant and susceptible lines each was screened with 63 parental polymorphic SSR markers. The SSR markers RM316, RM444 and RM219, located on chromosome 9, are linked to Gm1 at genetic distances of 8.0, 4.9 and 5.9 cM, respectively, and flank the gene locus. Further, gene/marker order was also determined. The utility of the co-segregating SSR markers was tested in a backcross population derived from the cross Swarna/W1263//Swarna, and allelic profiles of these markers were analysed in a set of donor rice genotypes possessing Gm1 and in a few gall midge-susceptible, elite rice varieties.
15278317	The degradation characteristics of toluene coupled to nitrate reduction were investigated in enrichment culture and the microbial communities of toluene-degrading denitrifying consortia were characterized by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) technique. Anaerobic nitrate-reducing bacteria were enriched from oil-contaminated soil samples collected from terrestrial (rice field) and marine (tidal flat) ecosystems. Enriched consortia degraded toluene in the presence of nitrate as a terminal electron acceptor. The degradation rate of toluene was affected by the initial substrate concentration and co-existence of other hydrocarbons. The types of toluene-degrading denitrifying consortia depended on the type of ecosystem. The clone RS-7 obtained from the enriched consortium of the rice field was most closely related to a toluene-degrading and denitrifying bacterium, Azoarcus denitrificians (A. tolulyticus sp. nov.). The clone TS-11 detected in the tidal flat enriched consortium was affiliated to Thauera sp. strain S2 (T. aminoaromatica sp. nov.) that was able to degrade toluene under denitrifying conditions. This indicates that environmental factors greatly influence microbial communities obtained from terrestrial (rice field) and marine (tidal flat) ecosystems.
15279342	Refeeding of artificially fed infants with lactose-containing formula after oral rehydration therapy in the treatment of acute diarrhea was concluded to be indifferent to non-lactose formula by a meta-analysis. In Thai as well as Asian infants and children with low lactase level from genetically determinant and with rotavirus infection, lactose malabsorption is most likely to occur and cause delayed recovery. The aim of this study was to compare the effect of a lactose-free and a lactose-containing formula in dietary management of acute childhood diarrhea. A randomized, double-blind clinical trial of 80 male children, formula-fed, aged 3 to 24 months, admitted with acute watery diarrhea and mild or moderate dehydration, was carried out. All children received oral rehydration therapy for the first 4 hours. After appropriate rehydration, they were fed either a lactose-free formula (Dumex Lactose-Free Formula; treatment group, n = 40) or a lactose-containing formula (Dumex Infant Formula; control group, n = 40) in adjunction with oral rehydration solution. In addition, the infants were fed rice gruel as tolerated. Comparisons of duration of diarrhea, weight gain, vomiting, biochemical changes, stool frequency and weight and unscheduled intravenous fluid were made. Three children (2 treatment, and 1 control) dropped out from the study. The total number of unscheduled intravenous infusions were 6 of 80 children (7.5%), including 2 (5.0%) in the treatment group and 4 (10.0%) in the control group. Three children in the control group did not resolve from diarrhea within 7 days of treatment. Rotavirus was identified in approximately 50% of the children in each group. Using survival analysis, the median duration of diarrhea was significantly shortened by 20.5 hours in the treatment group compared to the control group (77.0 hours in the treatment group vs 97.5 hours in the control group; P = 0.002). Significantly decrease in stool frequency and increase in percent weight gain were seen in the treatment group at 24 hours. Moderate acidosis cleared up to near normal at 24 hours in the treatment group but acidosis persisted in the control group. In the rotavirus diarrhea subgroup, moderate acidosis turned to be mild in treatment group, but acidosis was unchanged with increased plasma chloride level in the control at 24 hours thus suggesting that the children in the control group might have lactose malabsorption and osmotic diarrhea. Duration of rotavirus diarrhea was shortened 23.6 hours in treatment group compared to the control (P = 0.0034). In this study, lactose-free formula was shown to be effective in the dietary management of acute childhood diarrhea. Duration of diarrhea was shortened, weight gain was better, and stool frequency was less when compared to lactose-containing formula. Moderate acidosis cleared up spontaneously at 24 hours. Unscheduled IV could be decreased by 50%. Children receiving lactose-free formula tolerated it well. Data of subgroup analysis of rotavirus diarrhea revealed lactose-free formula scored higher than the control group for all parameters studied.
15279994	Plant peroxidases (class III peroxidases, E.C. 1.11.1.7) are secreted glycoproteins known to be involved in the mechanism of cell elongation, in cell wall construction and differentiation, and in the defense against pathogens. They usually form large multigenic families in angiosperms. The recent completion of rice (Oryza sativa japonica c.v. Nipponbare) genome sequencing allowed drawing up the full inventory of the genes encoding class III peroxidases in this plant. We found 138 peroxidase genes distributed among the 12 rice chromosomes. In contrast to several other gene families studied so far, peroxidase genes are twice as numerous in rice as in Arabidopsis. This large number of genes results from various duplication events that were tentatively traced back using a phylogenetic tree based on the alignment of conserved amino acid sequences. We also searched for peroxidase encoding genes in the major phyla of plant kingdom. In addition to gymnosperms and angiosperms, sequences were found in liverworts, mosses and ferns, but not in unicellular green algae. Two rice and one Arabidopsis peroxidase genes appeared to be rather close to the only known sequence from the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha. The possible relationship of these peroxidases with the putative ancestor of peroxidase genes is discussed, as well as the connection between the development of the class III peroxidase multigenic family and the emergence of the first land plants.
15280039	In suspension-cultured rice cells, diterpenoid phytoalexins are produced in response to exogenously applied elicitors. We isolated a cDNA encoding a diterpene cyclase, OsDTC2, from suspension-cultured rice cells treated with a chitin elicitor. The OsDTC2 cDNA was overexpressed in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein with glutathione S-transferase, and the recombinant OsDTC2 was indicated to function as stemar-13-ene synthase that converted syn-copalyl diphosphate to stemar-13-ene, a putative diterpene hydrocarbon precursor of the phytoalexin oryzalexin S. The level of OsDTC2 mRNA in suspension-cultured rice cells began to increase 3 h after addition of the elicitor and reached the maximum after 8 h. The expression of OsDTC2 was also induced in UV-irradiated rice leaves. In addition, we indicated that stemar-13-ene accumulated in the chitin-elicited suspension-cultured rice cells and the UV-irradiated rice leaves.
15280289	A novel species, Swaminathania salitolerans gen. nov., sp. nov., was isolated from the rhizosphere, roots and stems of salt-tolerant, mangrove-associated wild rice (Porteresia coarctata Tateoka) using nitrogen-free, semi-solid LGI medium at pH 5.5. Strains were Gram-negative, rod-shaped and motile with peritrichous flagella. The strains grew well in the presence of 0.35% acetic acid, 3% NaCl and 1% KNO3, and produced acid from l-arabinose, d-glucose, glycerol, ethanol, d-mannose, d-galactose and sorbitol. They oxidized ethanol and grew well on mannitol and glutamate agar. The fatty acids 18 : 1omega7c/omega9t/omega12t and 19 : 0cyclo omega8c constituted 30.41 and 11.80% total fatty acids, respectively, whereas 13 : 1 AT 12-13 was found at 0.53%. DNA G+C content was 57.6-59.9 mol% and the major quinone was Q-10. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that these strains were related to the genera Acidomonas, Asaia, Acetobacter, Gluconacetobacter, Gluconobacter and Kozakia in the Acetobacteraceae. Isolates were able to fix nitrogen and solubilized phosphate in the presence of NaCl. Based on overall analysis of the tests and comparison with the characteristics of members of the Acetobacteraceae, a novel genus and species is proposed for these isolates, Swaminathania salitolerans gen. nov., sp. nov. The type strain is PA51T (=LMG 21291T=MTCC 3852T).
15280299	The trivial name 'phytoplasma' has been adopted to collectively name wall-less, non-helical prokaryotes that colonize plant phloem and insects, which were formerly known as mycoplasma-like organisms. Although phytoplasmas have not yet been cultivated in vitro, phylogenetic analyses based on various conserved genes have shown that they represent a distinct, monophyletic clade within the class Mollicutes. It is proposed here to accommodate phytoplasmas within the novel genus 'Candidatus (Ca.) Phytoplasma'. Given the diversity within 'Ca. Phytoplasma', several subtaxa are needed to accommodate organisms that share <97.5% similarity among their 16S rRNA gene sequences. This report describes the properties of 'Ca. Phytoplasma', a taxon that includes the species 'Ca. Phytoplasma aurantifolia' (the prokaryote associated with witches'-broom disease of small-fruited acid lime), 'Ca. Phytoplasma australiense' (associated with Australian grapevine yellows), 'Ca. Phytoplasma fraxini' (associated with ash yellows), 'Ca. Phytoplasma japonicum' (associated with Japanese hydrangea phyllody), 'Ca. Phytoplasma brasiliense' (associated with hibiscus witches'-broom in Brazil), 'Ca. Phytoplasma castaneae' (associated with chestnut witches'-broom in Korea), 'Ca. Phytoplasma asteris' (associated with aster yellows), 'Ca. Phytoplasma mali' (associated with apple proliferation), 'Ca. Phytoplasma phoenicium' (associated with almond lethal disease), 'Ca. Phytoplasma trifolii' (associated with clover proliferation), 'Ca. Phytoplasma cynodontis' (associated with Bermuda grass white leaf), 'Ca. Phytoplasma ziziphi' (associated with jujube witches'-broom), 'Ca. Phytoplasma oryzae' (associated with rice yellow dwarf) and six species-level taxa for which the Candidatus species designation has not yet been formally proposed (for the phytoplasmas associated with X-disease of peach, grapevine flavescence dorée, Central American coconut lethal yellows, Tanzanian lethal decline of coconut, Nigerian lethal decline of coconut and loofah witches'-broom, respectively). Additional species are needed to accommodate organisms that, despite their 16S rRNA gene sequence being >97.5% similar to those of other 'Ca. Phytoplasma' species, are characterized by distinctive biological, phytopathological and genetic properties. These include 'Ca. Phytoplasma pyri' (associated with pear decline), 'Ca. Phytoplasma prunorum' (associated with European stone fruit yellows), 'Ca. Phytoplasma spartii' (associated with spartium witches'-broom), 'Ca. Phytoplasma rhamni' (associated with buckthorn witches'-broom), 'Ca. Phytoplasma allocasuarinae' (associated with allocasuarina yellows), 'Ca. Phytoplasma ulmi' (associated with elm yellows) and an additional taxon for the stolbur phytoplasma. Conversely, some organisms, despite their 16S rRNA gene sequence being <97.5% similar to that of any other 'Ca. Phytoplasma' species, are not presently described as Candidatus species, due to their poor overall characterization.
15281262	The determination of the triacylglycerol (TAG) profile in real world matrices is rather difficult as these compounds present a complex composition and are characterized by similar physico-chemical properties. This investigation is based on the high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) multidimensional determination of the TAG profile in terms of TAG species and positional isomers in a rice oil sample. The off-line bi-dimensional system was attained through the coupling of non-aqueous reversed-phase HPLC and silver ion (Ag)-HPLC. The primary column eluate was fractionated and the fractions of interest were then injected onto the secondary column, allowing the separation of several TAG positional isomers, unresolved in the first dimension. Peak assignment was carried out by combining retention data with atmospheric pressure chemical ionisation (APCI) MS spectra information. The fatty acid distribution along the glycerol backbone, determined by Ag-HPLC, was confirmed through diglyceride ion ratios derived from APCI-MS analysis. Method validation, where both precision and accuracy were measured, was carried out in preliminary applications on standard compounds. The analytical results obtained show that rice oil TAGs follow a distribution which can be considered typical for vegetable oils.
15281478	Wheat is a food allergen that occasionally causes a systemic allergic reaction; however, little is known about the quantities of wheat allergen required to evoke allergic symptoms. To report the case of a wheat allergic boy who experienced systemic urticaria and angioedema within 40 minutes after the ingestion of 9 g of packed rice crackers. A skin prick test and IgE immunoblotting with wheat proteins were performed. Contamination of wheat protein in the offending rice cracker and other processed rice crackers from local food retail outlets, with labels that did not mention wheat, was examined with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assaying. A skin reaction to wheat was positive. IgE-bound bands were observed with water- and salt-soluble wheat protein and ethanol-soluble wheat gliadin in immunoblotting. A trace quantity of wheat protein, 1.50 microg/g, was determined in the offending rice cracker. In addition, 3 of 8 other kinds of processed rice crackers were contaminated by wheat protein, with levels ranging from 0.26 to 1.13 microg/g. Approximately 13.5 microg of wheat protein can elicit a systemic adverse reaction in highly sensitive, wheat allergic individuals. The present study confirms the need for control of contamination of food by nondeclared proteins.
15282953	Aromatic (Bas-370, PB-1) and non-aromatic (Pusa-677, Pusa-834) rice were selected for the characterization and for distribution of lipoxygenase (Lox) genes. Polymorphism was observed when genomic DNA of rice varieties was hybridized with a heterologous lipoxygenase probe. A distinct polymorphic fragment (approximately 1.2 kb) was found in Bas-370. Sub-genomic library of Bas-370 was constructed and screened with LoxA probe. The smallest putative clone (pBas-14) of approximately 1.2 kb was sequenced. Complete nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequence showed the clone was 1134 bp long and comprised of 378 amino acid residues. PCR amplification of genomic DNA from four rice varieties with a soybean Lox primer also showed a polymorphic fragment of size approximately 600 bp (amplicon) in aromatic varieties that was sequenced directly. Nucleotide sequence alignment between pBas-14 and amplicon concluded that the amplicon was a part of the insert pBas-14.
15284490	With the completion of genomic sequencing of rice, rice has been firmly established as a model organism for both basic and applied research. The next challenge is to uncover the functions of genes predicted by sequence analysis. Considering the amount of effort and the diversity of disciplines required for functional analyses, extensive international collaboration is needed for this next goal. The aims of this review are to summarize the current status of rice mutant resources, key tools for functional analysis of genes, and our perspectives on how to accelerate rice gene discovery through collaboration.
15284492	Two homologous cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) genes, GhCTL1 and GhCTL2, encode members of a new group of chitinase-like proteins (called the GhCTL group) that includes other proteins from two cotton species, Arabidopsis, rice, and pea. Members of the GhCTL group are assigned to family GH19 glycoside hydrolases along with numerous authentic chitinases (http://afmb.cnrs-mrs.fr/CAZY/index.html), but the proteins have novel consensus sequences in two regions that are essential for chitinase activity and that were previously thought to be conserved. Maximum parsimony phylogenetic analyses, as well as Neighbor-Joining distance analyses, of numerous chitinases confirmed that the GhCTL group is distinct. A molecular model of GhCTL2 (based on the three-dimensional structure of a barley chitinase) had changes in the catalytic site that are likely to abolish catalytic activity while retaining potential to bind chitin oligosaccharides. RNA blot analysis showed that members of the GhCTL group had preferential expression during secondary wall deposition in cotton lint fiber. Cotton transformed with a fusion of the GhCTL2 promoter to the beta -d-glucuronidase gene showed preferential reporter gene activity in numerous cells during secondary wall deposition. Together with evidence from other researchers that mutants in an Arabidopsis gene within the GhCTL group are cellulose-deficient with phenotypes indicative of altered primary cell walls, these data suggest that members of the GhCTL group of chitinase-like proteins are essential for cellulose synthesis in primary and secondary cell walls. However, the mechanism by which they act is more likely to involve binding of chitin oligosaccharides than catalysis.
15284874	An interspecific advanced backcross population derived from a cross between Oryza sativa "V20A" (a popular male-sterile line used in Chinese rice hybrids) and Oryza glaberrima (accession IRGC No. 103544 from Mali) was used to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with grain quality and grain morphology. A total of 308 BC3F1 hybrid families were evaluated for 16 grain-related traits under field conditions in Changsha, China, and the same families were evaluated for RFLP and SSR marker segregation at Cornell University (Ithaca, N.Y.). Eleven QTL associated with seven traits were detected in six chromosomal regions, with the favorable allele coming from O. glaberrima at eight loci. Favorable O. glaberrima alleles were associated with improvements in grain shape and appearance, resulting in an increase in kernel length, transgressive variation for thinner grains, and increased length to width ratio. Oryza glaberrima alleles at other loci were associated with potential improvements in crude protein content and brown rice yield. These results suggested that genes from O. glaberrima may be useful in improving specific grain quality characteristics in high-yielding O. sativa hybrid cultivars.
15285505	In 3 experiments, New Hampshire x Columbian male chicks were fed carbohydrate-soybean meal (SBM) or casein diets from 0 to 21 d of age, and MEn was determined at 0 to 2, 3 to 4, 7, 14, and 21 d of age. Carbohydrate sources evaluated in experiment 1 were dextrose (D-glucose), conventional cornstarch, dextrinized cornstarch, corn-syrup solids, pregelatinized unmodified cornstarch, pregelatinized tapioca starch, tapioca dextrin, high-amylose starch, and polycose (mixed glucose polymers). Carbohydrate sources evaluated in experiments 2 and 3 were conventional corn, waxy corn, high-oil corn, corn flour, rice flour, dextrose, and sucrose. In experiment 1, chicks fed the dextrose diet had the highest weight gains, and the chicks fed high-amylose starch and pregelatinized unmodified cornstarch diets had the lowest weight gains. The MEn values varied among carbohydrate sources with MEn being highest for the dextrose diet and lowest for the high amylose starch diet. In experiment 2, chicks fed waxy corn, high-oil corn, or dextrose-SBM diets had (P < 0.05) higher growth rates than chicks fed conventional corn, corn flour, or rice flour. The MEn values increased with age for all diets except the dextrose-SBM, which was consistently high at all ages. In experiment 3, the dextrose diets (SBM or casein) yielded higher growth performance and MEn values than the sucrose-diets, and the differences were greater at younger ages. The MEn values were also much higher for the casein than the SBM diets, and MEn of the SBM diets increased with increasing age. The results of this study indicate that MEn, varies among carbohydrate sources and increases with age for most carbohydrate-SBM diets.
15286146	The rice mutants M249 and M134 accumulate chlorophyllides a and b which are esterified with incompletely reduced alcohols such as geranylgeraniol, dihydrogeranylgeraniol, and tetrahydrogeranylgeraniol. Quantities of alpha-tocopherol, phylloquinone, and menaquinones in leaves of these mutants were determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with a fluorescence detector after post-column chemical reduction to convert quinones to fluorescent quinols. Methylnaphthoquinones, varying in the reduction state of the side chain (menaquinones), were detected in leaf segments of the rice mutants on HPLC analyses with both high selectivity and sensitivity to plant quinones. Mutant M249 preferentially accumulated menaquinone, which contains tetrahydrogeranylgeraniol as its side chain. However, mutant M134 exhibited preferential accumulation of menaquinone with a geranylgeraniol side chain. In both mutants, the accumulation patterns of menaquinones with different prenyl side chains were similar to those of chlorophyll with the corresponding prenyl side chains. The content of P700, the photosystem I primary electron donor, in the wild type was greater than that of either mutant, on both a chlorophyll and a fresh weight basis. However, the ratios of total methylnaphthoquinones to P700 were similar in both the wild type and the mutants. Since no comparative large differences in photosynthetic activity exist between the wild type and the mutants, these results suggest that the hydrogenation of the methylnaphthoquinone side chain to phytol is not an essential requirement for it to function as an electron acceptor in photosystem I. On the other hand, alpha-tocopherol was detected in fully developed leaves of the wild type, but not in those of the mutants. Accumulation of menaquinones and the loss of alpha-tocopherol in mutant leaves suggest that the reduction of chlorophyll-geranylgeraniol to phytol and that of geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate to phytyl pyrophosphate are catalysed by the same enzyme.
15286913	The swamp eel Monopterus albus lives in muddy ponds, swamps, canals, and rice fields in the tropics. It encounters high concentrations of environmental ammonia (HEA) during dry seasons or during agricultural fertilization in rice fields. This study aimed at determining the tolerance of M. albus to environmental ammonia and at elucidating the strategies that it adopts to defend against ammonia toxicity in HEA. In the laboratory, M. albus exhibited very high environmental ammonia tolerance; the 48-, 72-, and 96-h median lethal concentrations of total ammonia at pH 7.0 and 28 degrees C were 209.9, 198.7, and 193.2 mM, respectively. It was apparently incapable of actively excreting ammonia against a concentration gradient. In addition, it did not detoxify ammonia to urea, the excretion of which would lead to a loss of nitrogen and carbon, during ammonia loading. The high tolerance of M. albus to HEA was attributable partially to its exceptionally high tolerance to ammonia at the cellular and subcellular levels. During the 144 h of exposure to 75 mM NH(4)Cl at pH 7.0, the ammonia contents in the muscle, liver, brain, and gut of M. albus reached 11.49, 15.18, 6.48, and 7.51 mu mol g(-1), respectively. Such a capability allowed the accumulation of high concentrations of ammonia in the plasma (3.54 mu mol mL(-1)) of M. albus exposed to HEA, which would reduce the net influx of exogenous ammonia. Subsequent to the buildup of internal ammonia levels, M. albus detoxified ammonia produced endogenously to glutamine. The glutamine contents in the muscle and liver reached 10.84 and 17.06 mu mol g(-1), respectively, after 144 h of exposure to HEA, which happened to be the highest known for fish. Unlike urea, the storage of glutamine in the muscle during ammonia loading allowed its usage for anabolic purposes when the adverse environmental condition subsides. Glutamine synthetase activity increased significantly in the liver and gut (2.8- and 1.5-fold, respectively) of specimens exposed to HEA for 144 h. These results suggest that the liver was the main site of ammonia detoxification and the gut was more than a digestive/absorptive organ in M. albus. Monopterus albus did not undergo a reduction in amino acid catabolism during the first 24 h of ammonia exposure. However, assuming a total inhibition of excretion of endogenous ammonia, there was a deficit of -312 mu mol N between the reduction in nitrogenous excretion (3,360 mu mol N) and the retention of nitrogen (3,048 mu mol N) after 72 h of aerial exposure. The deficit became much greater after 144 h, reaching a value of -3,243 mu mol N. These results suggest that endogenous ammonia production in M. albus was suppressed in order to prevent the newly established internal steady state concentration of ammonia from rising to an intolerable level after an extended period of exposure to HEA.
15287660	A collaborative study of the carbon-13 isotope ratio mass spectrometry (13C-IRMS) method based on fermentation ethanol for detecting some sugar additions in fruit juices and maple syrup is reported. This method is complementary to the site-specific natural isotope fractionation by nuclear magnetic resonance (SNIF-NMR) method for detecting added beet sugar in the same products (AOAC Official Methods 995.17 and 2000.19), and uses the same initial steps to recover pure ethanol. The fruit juices or maple syrups are completely fermented with yeast, and the alcohol is distilled with a quantitative yield (>96%). The carbon-13 deviation (delta13C) of ethanol is then determined by IRMS. This parameter becomes less negative when exogenous sugar derived from plants exhibiting a C4 metabolism (e.g., corn or cane) is added to a juice obtained from plants exhibiting a C3 metabolism (most common fruits except pineapple) or to maple syrup. Conversely, the delta13C of ethanol becomes more negative when exogenous sugar derived from C3 plants (e.g., beet, wheat, rice) is added to pineapple products. Twelve laboratories analyzed 2 materials (orange juice and pure cane sugar) in blind duplicate and 4 sugar-adulterated materials (orange juice, maple syrup, pineapple juice, and apple juice) as Youden pairs. The precision of that method for measuring delta13C was similar to that of other methods applied to wine ethanol or extracted sugars in juices. The within-laboratory (Sr) values ranged from 0.06 to 0.16%o (r = 0.17 to 0.46 percent per thousand), and the among-laboratories (SR) values ranged from 0.17 to 0.26 percent per thousand (R = 0.49 to 0.73 percent per thousand). The Study Directors recommend that the method be adopted as First Action by AOAC INTERNATIONAL.
15287681	Animal studies have shown conclusively that feeding of resistant starch (RS) increases production of large bowel total short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs). However, fermentation products of RS may be affected considerably by other dietary ingredients. In rats fed a 20% high-amylose cornstarch (HAS) with casein as the sole protein source, greater cecal SCFAs production was observed compared with that in rats fed a regular cornstarch diet. However, with this diet, the cecal succinate production was also very high. In contrast, when rice or potato protein with lower digestibility was used in place of casein, cecal succinate production decreased with a concomitant increase in butyrate. These observations suggest that nondigested protein, namely resistant protein, might play a role in correcting an imbalance in the ratio of carbohydrate and nitrogen as fermentative substrates for cecal bacteria and in promoting butyrate production. Epidemiological and biochemical data indicate a possible linkage between the fermentation products of starch (butyrate in particular) and the prevention of colorectal cancer as well as ulcerative colits. Accordingly, a fermentation strategy of RS favoring SCFA production should be established to elucidate the potentially beneficial effects of SCFAs on large bowel physiology.
15288275	Pilot composting of swine manure mixed with rice straw was carried out to evaluate performance characteristics of three aeration systems: forced aeration, passive aeration and natural aeration. It was expected to provide academic basis for farmers to select an advisable aeration system. The results showed that the thermophilic durations were long enough to satisfy the sanitary standard, and swine manure could reach maturity. The indexes of the composting, including physical changes, pH value, TOC, OM, TKN, WSC, WSN, solid C/N ratio, water-soluble C/N ratio, TOM, NH4+-N, (NO3(-) + NO2(-))-N, and GI had no significant difference among the treatments (P > 0.05) except the average temperature profiles (P12 = 0.001, P13 = 0.036). Economic analysis showed that a passive aeration system was suitable for a small-scale swine farm, and forced aeration system should be considered to apply in the middle and large-scale swine farms with a high extent of industrialization. But, in order to avoid too high temperature occurring during composting, an active aeration control system needed to be developed.
15290348	Transglutaminases have a range of catalytic activities, most of which concern the post-translational modification of proteins. The most important of these activities, both in terms of biology and biotechnology, is the cross-linking of proteins into large supramolecular networks. The widespread use of transglutaminases in research, medicine and industry has increased the demand for an inexpensive, efficient and safe source of recombinant enzymes. We describe initial results concerning the production of a mammalian transglutaminase in transgenic rice plants as a first step towards the large-scale molecular farming of this enzyme.
1529148	Elimination diets may be constructed in several ways and can be adapted to the suspected sensitivities of the individual patient. These diets are more easily tolerated than the more general elimination diets, so patients compliance is improved. In other cases, the diet is restricted to a few foods, such a rice, olive oil and lamb which are rarely implicated in food allergy. Home-made meat-based formulas are very well accepted by infants and parents. They are also useful oligoantigenic diet for the diagnosis of food allergy, allowing the introduction of other nutrients such as saccharose, wheat, etc. We use with good results and infant's compliance a home-made meat-based diet prepared as suggested by Rezza in 1973. A major advantage of this diet is that it can be tailored to the individual patient, that is vegetables, other types of fruit and meat, wheat flour and other nutrients can be added to the diet according to the age and weight of the child and the physician's judgement.
15292215	Plants contain three thioredoxin systems. Chloroplast thioredoxins are reduced by ferredoxin-thioredoxin reductase, whereas the cytosolic and mitochondrial thioredoxins are reduced by NADPH thioredoxin reductase (NTR). There is high similarity among NTRs from plants, lower eukaryotes, and bacteria, which are different from mammal NTR. Here we describe the OsNTRC gene from rice encoding a novel NTR with a thioredoxin-like domain at the C terminus, hence, a putative NTR/thioredoxin system in a single polypeptide. Orthologous genes were found in other plants and cyanobacteria, but not in bacteria, yeast, or mammals. Full-length OsNTRC and constructs with truncated NTR and thioredoxin domains were expressed in Escherichia coli as His-tagged polypeptides, and a polyclonal antibody specifically cross-reacting with the OsNTRC enzyme was raised. An in vitro activity assay showed that OsNTRC is a bifunctional enzyme with both NTR and thioredoxin activity but is not an NTR/thioredoxin system. Although the OsNTRC gene was expressed in roots and shoots of rice seedlings, the protein was exclusively found in shoots and mature leaves. Moreover, fractionation experiments showed that OsNTRC is localized to the chloroplast. An Arabidopsis NTRC knock-out mutant showed growth inhibition and hypersensitivity to methyl viologen, drought, and salt stress. These results suggest that the NTRC gene is involved in plant protection against oxidative stress.
15293397	Cellulose derivative resin (CDR) suspensions containing resin particles of cellulose nitrate (CDR(CN)), cellulose acetate (CDR(CA)), or cellulose triacetate (CDR(CTA)) were prepared as the sorbent for resin suspension injection (RSI) electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometry (ETAAS), in which fine resin particles holding a desired trace element were directly injected into the graphite tube as the suspension. To compare the sorption ability, the distribution ratios of the Mo(VI)-phenylfluorone complex were measured between the aqueous phase and the sorbents, including the CDRs mentioned above and the finely divided anion exchange resin (AR). The results showed that the sorption ability decreases in the following order: CDR(CN) > or = AR > CDR(CA) > or = CDR(CTA). It was concluded that CDR(CN) was able to extract more than 98% of Mo(VI), and was suitable for RSI-ETAAS as well as AR. CDR(CN) was used for the determination of Mo in NIES certified reference materials, No. 10 Rice flour-unpolished; the results showed fairly good agreements between the analytical values and the certified values.
15293787	Chitinase is a pathogenesis-related protein that hydrolyzes chitin, a major component of fungal cell walls. Two-week-old rice seedling leaf, leaf sheath and root tissues responded to an exogenous treatment by jasmonic acid (JA) with induction of the chitinases as determined by immunoblot analysis using an anti-endochitinase antibody. Induced accumulation of these chitinases was observed within 24 to 48 h in the leaf sheaths, leaves and roots. Besides, ethylene generator ethephon and abiotic stressor copper could also induce chitinases accumulation among various plant hormones and stress agents examined. Cycloheximide effectively blocked their accumulation by JA, suggesting that de novo protein synthesis is required. Partial blockage of the induced accumulation of chitinases by NADPH oxidase inhibitor and free radical scavengers suggested involvement of reactive oxygen species. Moreover, induced accumulation of these chitinases also by methyl jasmonate and certain protein phosphatase inhibitors indicated their potential importance and wider role in rice seedlings.
15293910	In this study, the epidemiological characteristics of malaria cases in Edirne province were investigated. Between the years of 1994-2002, a total of 317,087 blood samples were collected from soldiers in the province with selective active surveillance and from the resident population with active or passive surveillance methods, by the medical staff of Malaria Control Department and Health Centers, to search the presence of Plasmodium. In 281 of them Plasmodium spp. were detected, and the characteristics of malaria cases were investigated. Of the cases, 238 (84.7%) were detected in the first three years and mostly in September. While the indigenous cases were detected in the districts where rice planted intensely, the imported cases were detected in the districts heavily populated by military staff. Of the imported cases, 62% originated from Diyarbakir, Batman and Sanliurfa provinces (Southeast part of Turkey). P. vivax was detected as the causative agent in all blood samples except one P. ovale. This latter case has been the only one in Turkey so far and he was a student from Afghanistan. Attaching importance to fight off mosquitoes in intensely rice planted districts and strictly surveying the military staff, particularly from the region of Southern-East Anatolia, have led to successful control of the malaria cases in Edirne region.
15295067	A 38-bp pollen-specific cis-acting region of the AVP1 gene is involved in the expression of the Arabidopsis thaliana V-PPase during pollen development. Here, we report the isolation and structural characterization of AtVOZ1 and AtVOZ2, novel transcription factors that bind to the 38-bp cis-acting region of A. thaliana V-PPase gene, AVP1. AtVOZ1 and AtVOZ2 show 53% amino acid sequence similarity. Homologs of AtVOZ1 and AtVOZ2 are found in various vascular plants as well as a moss, Physcomitrella patens. Promoter-beta-glucuronidase reporter analysis shows that AtVOZ1 is specifically expressed in the phloem tissue and AtVOZ2 is strongly expressed in the root. In vivo transient effector-reporter analysis in A. thaliana suspension-cultured cells demonstrates that AtVOZ1 and AtVOZ2 function as transcriptional activators in the Arabidopsis cell. Two conserved regions termed Domain-A and Domain-B were identified from an alignment of AtVOZ proteins and their homologs of O. sativa and P. patens. AtVOZ2 binds as a dimer to the specific palindromic sequence, GCGTNx7ACGC, with Domain-B, which is comprised of a functional novel zinc coordinating motif and a conserved basic region. Domain-B is shown to function as both the DNA-binding and the dimerization domains of AtVOZ2. From highly the conservative nature among all identified VOZ proteins, we conclude that Domain-B is responsible for the DNA binding and dimerization of all VOZ-family proteins and designate it as the VOZ-domain.
15295068	We present here a transient expression system that allows the response of actin microfilaments to physiological stimuli (changes in auxin content, light) to be observed in single cells in vivo. Etiolated, intact rice seedlings are attached to glass slides, transfected biolistically with talin fused to yellow-fluorescent protein to visualize actin microfilaments, and either treated with auxin or irradiated. The talin marker labels distinct populations of actin that are differentially expressed depending on the physiological state of the coleoptile (active elongation versus ceased elongation). Whereas longitudinal transvacuolar bundles prevail in cells that have ceased to elongate, fine cortical strands are characteristic for elongating cells. The visualized actin structures remain dynamic and responsive to signals. Exogenous auxin triggers a loosening of the bundles and an extension of the cortical strands, whereas irradiation reorientates cortical strands into longitudinal arrays. These responses correspond in quality and timing to the signal responses inferred previously from fixed specimens and biochemical studies. In big advantage over those methods it is now possible to observe them directly at the single cell level. Thus, the rice coleoptile system can be used as a convenient model to study actin dynamics in vivo, in response to physiologically relevant stimuli.
15295073	OsGRF1 (Oryza sativa GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR1) is a rice gene encoding a putative novel transcriptional regulator. We identified and characterized eleven homologs of OsGRF1 in the rice genome. All twelve OsGRF proteins have two highly conserved regions, the QLQ (Gln, Leu, Gln) and WRC (Trp, Arg, Cys) domains, and sequences reminiscent of transcription factors. OsGRF genes were preferentially expressed in young and growing tissues, and applied gibberellic acid (GA3) enhanced the expression of seven OsGRF genes. In situ hybridization showed high levels of OsGRF1 transcripts in the shoot apical meristem and in cells surrounding the vasculature of the intercalary meristem. In a GAL4-based yeast assay, the C-terminal region of OsGRF1 was found to have transactivation activity. These results indicate that OsGRF1 acts as a transcriptional activator. Based on the in situ expression pattern of OsGRF1, we postulate that it may be involved in regulating vegetative growth in rice.
15295114	Nonspecific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) facilitate the transfer of phospholipids, glycolipids, fatty acids and steroids between membranes, with wide-ranging binding affinities. Three crystal structures of rice nsLTP1 from Oryza sativa, complexed with myristic (MYR), palmitic (PAL) or stearic acid (STE) were determined. The overall structures of the rice nsLTP1 complexes belong to the four-helix bundle folding with a long C-terminal loop. The nsLTP1-MYR and the nsLTP1-STE complexes bind a single fatty acid while the nsLTP1-PAL complex binds two molecules of fatty acids. The C-terminal loop region is elastic in order to accommodate a diverse range of lipid molecules. The lipid molecules interact with the nsLTP1-binding cavity mainly with hydrophobic interactions. Significant conformational changes were observed in the binding cavity and the C-terminal loop of the rice nsLTP1 upon lipid binding.
15296221	The latest process for producing large quantities of single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) to emerge from the Rice University, dubbed HiPco, is living up to its promise. The current production rates approach 450 mg/h (or 10 g/day), and nanotubes typically have no more than 7 mol % of iron impurities. Second-generation HiPco apparatus can run continuously for 7-10 days at a time. In the HiPco process nanotubes grow in high-pressure, high-temperature flowing CO on catalytic clusters of iron. Catalyst is formed in situ by thermal decomposition of iron pentacarbonyl, which is delivered intact within a cold CO flow and then rapidly mixed with hot CO in the reaction zone. Upon heating, the Fe(CO)5 decomposes into atoms that condense into larger clusters. SWNTs nucleate and grow on these particles in the gas phase via CO disproportionation: CO + CO --> CO2 + C (SWNT), catalyzed by the Fe surface. The concentration of CO2 produced in this reaction is equal to that of carbon and can therefore serve as a useful real-time feedback parameter. It was used to study and optimize SWNT production as a function of temperature, pressure, and Fe(CO)5 concentration. The results of the parametric study are in agreement with current understanding of the nanotube formation mechanism.
15296222	Different types of lasers are now routinely used to prepare single-walled carbon nanotubes. The original method developed by researchers at Rice University used a "double-pulse laser oven" process. Several researchers have used variations of the lasers to include one-laser pulse (green or infrared), different pulse widths (ns to micros as well as continuous wave), and different laser wavelengths (e.g., CO2, or free electron lasers in the near to far infrared). Some of these variations are tried with different combinations and concentrations of metal catalysts, buffer gases (e.g., helium), oven temperatures, flow conditions, and even different porosities of the graphite targets. This article is an attempt to cover all these variations and their relative merits. Possible growth mechanisms under these different conditions will also be discussed.
15296424	The past 5 years have seen the commercialization of two recombinant protein products from transgenic plants, and many recombinant therapeutic proteins produced in plants are currently undergoing development. The emergence of plants as an alternative production host has brought new challenges and opportunities to downstream processing efforts. Plant hosts contain a unique set of matrix contaminants (proteins, oils, phenolic compounds, etc.) that must be removed during purification of the target protein. Furthermore, plant solids, which require early removal after extraction, are generally in higher concentration, wider in size range, and denser than traditional bacterial and mammalian cell culture debris. At the same time, there remains the desire to incorporate highly selective and integrative separation technologies (those capable of performing multiple tasks) during the purification process from plant material. The general plant processing and purification scheme consists of isolation of the plant tissue containing the recombinant protein, fractionation of the tissue along with particle size reduction, extraction of the target protein into an aqueous medium, clarification of the crude extract, and finally purification of the product. Each of these areas will be discussed here, focusing on what has been learned and where potential concerns remain. We also present details of how the choice of plant host, along with location within the plant for targeting the recombinant protein, can play an important role in the ultimate ease of recovery and the emergence of regulations governing plant hosts. Major emphasis is placed on three crops, canola, corn, and soy, with brief discussions of tobacco and rice.
15296463	Griseofulvin is a secondary metabolite produced from fungal species that have morphology suitable for solid-state fermentation (SSF). Reports on production of griseofulvin by SSF are scarce. The present work investigates SSF for griseofulvin production, optimization of its process parameters vis-à-vis the conventional submerged fermentation and its downstream processing from the same. Rice bran adjusted to an initial moisture content (IMC) of 50% (v/w) inoculated with 1 mL of a suspension of 10(6) spores/mL under agitation at 250 rpm containing the modified Czapek-Dox medium and additional 0.1% choline chloride as a precursor gave a yield of griseofulvin in 9 days that was comparable to submerged fermentation after 28 days. The yield of griseofulvin (microg/g dry biomass) was comparable in SSF and submerged fermentation. The biomass was estimated by estimation of chitin. Discussions on the effect of each parameter in SSF have also been included.
15297100	Previous studies suggest that inadequate glycaemic control in diabetic patients might be related to the type of carbohydrates the patients consume regularly. Thus, we aimed to assess glucose and insulin responses after diabetic and non-diabetic subjects ingested 3 commonly consumed carbohydrate-based foods. Thirty-eight type-2 diabetic and 27 non-diabetic subjects were studied in 3 different occasions of 7 days apart. On each day of the study, anthropometric indices were measured and after collecting fasting blood samples, subjects randomly consumed bread, roti or rice within 10 min. Subsequently 7 ml of venous blood samples were collected at 60, 90, 120 and 150 min for determination of glucose and insulin responses. Although the diabetic patients were older than the healthy subjects (P < 0.05), both subjects had similar weight, body mass index and waist and hip circumferences (P > 0.05). The mean fasting and post meal plasma glucose concentrations for the 3 test foods were higher in diabetic patients than the corresponding values for the healthy subjects (all; P < 0.001). Generally, roti elicited the highest total incremental glucose responses in the diabetic patients irrespective of ethnic group (P < 0.05). There were variations in glucose and insulin responses to the 3 test foods. However, roti elicited the highest postprandial hyperglycaemia and should therefore be discouraged in regular dietary plan of diabetic patients.
15297984	For the purpose of analyzing the relation between the splice sites and the order of introns, we conducted the following analysis for the GT-AG and GC-AG splice site groups. First, the pre-mRNAs of H. sapiens, M. musculus, D. melanogaster, A. thaliana and O. sativa were sampled by mapping the full-length cDNA to the genomes. Next, the consensus sequences at different regions of pre-mRNAs were analyzed in the five species. We also investigated the mononucleotide and dinucleotide frequencies in the extensive regions around the 5' splice sites (5'ss) and 3' splice sites (3'ss). As a result, differential frequencies of nucleotides at the first 5'ss in both the GT-AG and GC-AG splice site groups were observed in A. thaliana and O. sativa pre-mRNAs. The trend, which indicates that GC 5'ss possess strong consensus sequences, was observed not only in mammalian pre-mRNAs but also in the pre-mRNAs of D. melanogaster, A. thaliana and O. sativa. Furthermore, we examined the consensus sequences of the constitutive and alternative splice sites. It was suggested that in the case of the alternative GC-AG introns, the tendency to have a weak consensus sequence at 5'ss is different between H. sapiens and M. musculus pre-mRNAs.
15299121	MADS box transcription factors controlling flower development have been isolated and studied in a wide variety of organisms. These studies have shown that homologous MADS box genes from different species often have similar functions. OsMADS18 from rice (Oryza sativa) belongs to the phylogenetically defined AP1/SQUA group. The MADS box genes of this group have functions in plant development, like controlling the transition from vegetative to reproductive growth, determination of floral organ identity, and regulation of fruit maturation. In this paper we report the functional analysis of OsMADS18. This rice MADS box gene is widely expressed in rice with its transcripts accumulated to higher levels in meristems. Overexpression of OsMADS18 in rice induced early flowering, and detailed histological analysis revealed that the formation of axillary shoot meristems was accelerated. Silencing of OsMADS18 using an RNA interference approach did not result in any visible phenotypic alteration, indicating that OsMADS18 is probably redundant with other MADS box transcription factors. Surprisingly, overexpression of OsMADS18 in Arabidopsis caused a phenotype closely resembling the ap1 mutant. We show that the ap1 phenotype is not caused by down-regulation of AP1 expression. Yeast two-hybrid experiments showed that some of the natural partners of AP1 interact with OsMADS18, suggesting that the OsMADS18 overexpression phenotype in Arabidopsis is likely to be due to the subtraction of AP1 partners from active transcription complexes. Thus, when compared to AP1, OsMADS18 during evolution seems to have conserved the mechanistic properties of protein-protein interactions, although it cannot complement the AP1 function.
15300284	Nutritional status, dietary and leisure-time physical activity patterns, and energy intake of 65 male metalworkers aged 19 to 58 years from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, are described in the context of a surveillance build-up system. Mean body mass index was 25.0 kg/m2 (44.6% of the workers were overweight), and mean daily energy intake was 3,209.1 kcal, with a macronutrient distribution of 17.8%, 21.8%, and 60.6% of protein, lipids, and carbohydrates, respectively. The most frequently eaten foods were rice, beans, bread, coffee, sugar, butter, juice, whole milk, soda, beef, and poultry. Vegetable, fruit, meat, and egg intakes were higher than the Food Pyramid Guide suggested portions. The results show a paradox for a surveillance system: (1) high prevalence of overweight, but dietary macronutrients within internationally recommended levels; (2) a well-balanced dietary pattern; and (3) some leisure-time physical activity in half of the workers.
15300383	Conventional methods for quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping require the selection of particular traits to be measured based on assumptions as to their importance. We have tested an alternative approach for the location of QTLs-marker-evaluated selection-that makes no prior assumptions as to which traits are important. The results of phenotype selection were evaluated in the products of modified bulk-population breeding that was replicated across a range of rice ecosystems. Selection was carried out in close collaboration with farmers in bulk populations that were all derived from a cross between an Indian upland variety (Kalinga III) and a high-yielding semi-dwarf variety (IR64).Twenty-seven diverse bulks were produced that were screened with molecular markers in order to determine whether shifts could be detected in marker allele frequency as a result of selection and if such changes varied by genomic region across ecosystems. Marker loci linked to important traits for adaptation to specific environments were identified without making any prior assumptions about which traits might be important. Genomic regions from Kalinga III were strongly selected in the upland environments and regions from IR64 in the lowland ones.However, exceptions occurred where the upland parent contributed positively to lowland adaptation and vice versa. The results can be used as a basis for the development of second-cycle varieties, using marker-assisted selection to produce genotypic ideotypes for specific target environments. The very strong selection for genomic regions from the adapted parents of the wide(upland x lowland) cross indicates that, in non-marker-assisted breeding, where genetically distant parents have been used, modified backcross breeding should be efficient. A single backcross to the adapted parent for aspecific ecosystem will result in a higher frequency of segregants with the desired high genetic contribution from the adapted parent.
15300455	Rice bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones have been identified that contain sequences orthologous to each EST localized to wheat chromosome 7AS deletion stocks by Southern blot hybridization. This information has been used to relate the DNA sequence included in each wheat deletion stock to a complement of rice BACs. A virtual contig was used that covered 90 cM (21 Mb) of DNA sequence (with a gap for the 6S/8L junction). Comparison of the positions of orthologous genes on the rice virtual contig and on wheat chromosome 7AS showed that there was an unexpectedly low level of synteny (31.4%) and a high level of chromosome rearrangements (68.6%). The non-syntenous loci were of two classes: wheat and rice genes found at different locations in the genome (32.6%), and ESTs in wheat not present in rice (36.0%). Four starch synthetic genes, GBSSI, SSI, SSIIa and DBEI, were located at similar positions on wheat chromosome 7AS and the virtual rice contig covering wheat chromosome 7AS. A preliminary comparison between the short arms of chromosome 7A and 7D in wheat showed that both chromosomes had a similar level of sequence synteny with rice. Therefore, there appears to be considerable variation in gene order between wheat chromosome 7S and rice chromosome 6S and 8L.
15303914	The charge transfer and deuterium ion transfer reactions between D(2)O(+) and C(2)H(4) have been studied using the crossed beam technique at relative collision energies below one electron volt and by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Both direct and rearrangement charge transfer processes are observed, forming C(2)H(4) (+) and C(2)H(3)D(+), respectively. Independent of collision energy, deuterium ion transfer accounts for approximately 20% of the reactive collisions. Between 22 and 36 % of charge transfer collisions occur with rearrangement. In both charge transfer processes, comparison of the internal energy distributions of products with the photoelectron spectrum of C(2)H(4) shows that Franck-Condon factors determine energy disposal in these channels. DFT calculations provide evidence for transient intermediates that undergo H/D migration with rearrangement, but with minimal modification of the product energy distributions determined by long range electron transfer. The cross section for charge transfer with rearrangement is approximately 10(3) larger than predicted from the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus isomerization rate in transient complexes, suggesting a nonstatistical mechanism for H/D exchange. DFT calculations suggest that reactive trajectories for deuterium ion transfer follow a pathway in which a deuterium atom from D(2)O(+) approaches the pi-cloud of ethylene along the perpendicular bisector of the C-C bond. The product kinetic energy distributions exhibit structure consistent with vibrational motion of the D-atom in the bridged C(2)H(4)D(+) product perpendicular to the C-C bond. The reaction quantitatively transforms the reaction exothermicity into internal excitation of the products, consistent with mixed energy release in which the deuterium ion is transferred in a configuration in which both the breaking and the forming bonds are extended.
15304675	To investigate the effect of individualized diet challenges consisting of allergenic foods, defined by the skin prick test (SPT), on tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) levels in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Twenty patients with a positive SPT response for food extracts and 20 with a negative SPT response were enrolled. None of the patients had active disease. All patients were fasted for the most common allergenic foods for 12 days and then allocated to two groups according to SPT results. Food challenges were performed with allergenic foods in the prick-positive group (PPG) and with corn and rice in the prick-negative group (PNG) for a period of 12 days. Then, allergenic foods were excluded from the PPG patients' diet and corn and rice were removed from the PNG patients' diet. Clinical examinations were performed after fasting (baseline), at the end of the challenge phase and at the end of the re-elimination phase. Stiffness, pain, tender and swollen joint counts, health assessment questionnaire (HAQ), Ritchie's articular index, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum TNF-alpha and IL-1beta levels were measured. TNF-alpha (P < 0.01), IL-1beta (P < 0.05), ESR (P < 0.05) and CRP (P = 0.001) levels and all of the clinical variables, except HAQ, were increased with food challenges in the PPG. These increases were also recorded after the re-elimination phase. In the PNG, no significant change was seen in any of the variables, except pain (P < 0.05). During the study, important differences were observed for most of the variables between the two groups. Thirteen (72%) patients in the PPG and three (18%) in the PNG experienced disease exacerbation with challenges. This aggravation continued after elimination. Our results suggest that individualized dietary revisions may regulate TNF-alpha and IL-1beta levels in selected patients with RA.
15304883	The ability to perform dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) while a patient is in a cast would give investigators the opportunity to follow early changes in bone mineral density (BMD, g/cm2) during fracture healing or to evaluate bone changes related to immobilization. The objective of this study was to determine if accurate and precise DXA scans could be obtained through polyester-based radiolucent casting tape (Delta-Cast Elite [DCE], Johnson & Johnson, Inc., Raynham, MA) and standard fiberglass casting tape (Delta Lite [DL], Johnson & Johnson, Inc.). DXA scans were performed using a Lunar DPXL densitometer. Standard forearm regions of interest were analyzed. Ten normal volunteers had three consecutive scans of their dominant arm with no cast, with a radiolucent (DCE) cast, and with a fiberglass (DL) cast. Precision was calculated using data from three volunteers (three scans each; no cast, DCE, DL). Results of DCE and DL were compared with results with no cast. In a second series, a spine phantom was placed inside rice-filled forearm casts and repetitively scanned; results with DCE and DL were compared with the mean BMD values for the phantom alone. Analyses of the scans through the DL casts were difficult because the radiodensity of the fiberglass interfered with edge detection. This problem was exacerbated by low BMD (i.e., scans for women). Edge detection was not a problem with the DCE scans. Although the group mean BMD values with in vivo no cast, DCE, or DL scans were similar for all regions of interest, the data obtained for ultradistal regions of interest with DL scans were less precise. BMD values for the fiberglass-encased phantom were significantly lower compared with no cast or DCE scans (p = 0.0002). This study demonstrates that it is possible to perform accurate and precise forearm DXA scans through polyester-based radiolucent DCE casting tape.
15304977	Mushrooms are known to accumulate radiocesium. To estimate the intake of radiocesium through the eating of mushrooms, about 30 samples belonging to 4 commonly consumed species (Lentinula edodes, Hypsizigus marmoreus, Grifola frondosa, and Tricholoma matsutake), were analyzed for (137)Cs and (40)K. The concentration ranges were 0.060-29 Bq kg(-1) (wet wt) for (137)Cs and 38-300 Bq kg(-1) (wet wt) for (40)K. The geometric mean concentration for (137)Cs was 0.56 Bq kg(-1) (wet wt), and the mean concentration for (40)K was 92 Bq kg(-1) (wet wt). The (137)Cs concentrations in L. edodes cultivated in mushroom beds (sawdust-rice bran media) were lower than those cultivated on bed logs (natural wood with bark). The annual intake of (137)Cs per person through mushrooms was calculated, by using the current analytical results and food consumption data in Japan, to be 3.1 Bq for (137)Cs, which is about 28% of the total dietary intake of this nuclide. The effective dose equivalent of (137)Cs through mushrooms was estimated to be 4.0 currency 10(-8) Sv, which is about the half the value obtained in our previous study. The decrease of the (137)Cs intake through mushrooms is probably related to changes in cultivation methods in recent years, from the use of bed logs to mushroom beds.
15305116	The Screening Scale for Pedophilic Interests (SSPI; Seto & Lalumière, 2001), a brief measure of sexual attraction to prepubescent children that is based on victim characteristics, was used in two samples of 113 and 145 adult male sex offenders with child victims. In both samples, the SSPI was significantly and positively correlated with an index of phallometrically-measured sexual arousal to stimuli depicting prepubescent children. It was also significantly and positively correlated in both samples with violent recidivism (meaning either nonsexually violent offenses or sexual offenses involving physical contact with a victim), and positively correlated with sexual recidivism, significantly so in the second, larger sample. Focusing on the larger sample, the SSPI added to the predictive accuracy of a measure of general antisociality (the Psychopathy Checklist-Revised), while the phallometric index of sexual arousal did not add predictive accuracy once the other two measures were entered. The SSPI also yielded the same interaction between anomalous sexual interests and psychopathy we had previously reported using phallometric data (Rice & Harris, 1997). These findings suggest that the SSPI has predictive utility among adult male sex offenders with child victims, and accounts for variance in sexual offending that is not explained by phallometric testing.
15305117	The relation between birth order and number of sexual and violent convictions was investigated retrospectively in a sample of 113 men, to determine whether the established fraternal birth order effect in male homosexual preference and deviant sexual preference (e.g., for rape and pedophilia) may be extended to sexual behavior. Participants were mentally disordered offenders detained in a medium secure psychiatric unit in the United Kingdom and comprised 64 men with sexual convictions and 49 men with nonsexual violent convictions. Sibling data from psychiatric notes were used to calculate Berglin's birth order index for each participant and conviction data were obtained from the Home Office Offenders' Index. Fraternal birth order was significantly correlated with number of sexual convictions (p < or = .05). No association was found between fraternal or sororal birth order and violent convictions in either the sex offender or violent offender group. Results suggest that the fraternal birth order effect previously found for deviant sexual preference in sex offenders (K. Côté, C. M. Earls, & M. L. Lalumière, 2002; M. L. Lalumière, G. T. Harris, V. L. Quinsey, & M. E. Rice, 1998) also applies to sexually deviant behavior and is specific to sexual rather than general offending. Results are discussed in terms of the maternal immunosensitization hypothesis.
15307669	Rice blast fungus isolates were collected in Kyushu to investigate resistance to scytalone dehydratase inhibitors of melanin biosynthesis (MBI-D). In 2001, failure of control of rice blast was reported in the Saga prefecture, where MBI-Ds have been used since 1998. At that time, the distribution of resistant isolates was mainly limited to that area. However, in 2002, resistant isolates were detected in all prefectures of Kyushu. DNA fingerprinting analysis showed that the mutation causing resistance to MBI-Ds had arisen independently in each area. These data suggest that resistant isolates may occur in any area and become dominant under continuous selection pressure for MBI-Ds. Nevertheless, resistant strains can be controlled by reductase inhibitors of melanin biosynthesis (MBI-R) or commercial rice seed disinfectants.
15309302	The availability of the rice genome sequence enabled the global characterization of nucleotide-binding site (NBS)-leucine-rich repeat (LRR) genes, the largest class of plant disease resistance genes. The rice genome carries approximately 500 NBS-LRR genes that are very similar to the non-Toll/interleukin-1 receptor homology region (TIR) class (class 2) genes of Arabidopsis but none that are homologous to the TIR class genes. Over 100 of these genes were predicted to be pseudogenes in the rice cultivar Nipponbare, but some of these are functional in other rice lines. Over 80 other NBS-encoding genes were identified that belonged to four different classes, only two of which are present in dicotyledonous plant sequences present in databases. Map positions of the identified genes show that these genes occur in clusters, many of which included members from distantly related groups. Members of phylogenetic subgroups of the class 2 NBS-LRR genes mapped to as many as ten different chromosomes. The patterns of duplication of the NBS-LRR genes indicate that they were duplicated by many independent genetic events that have occurred continuously through the expansion of the NBS-LRR superfamily and the evolution of the modern rice genome. Genetic events, such as inversions, that inhibit the ability of recently duplicated genes to recombine promote the divergence of their sequences by inhibiting concerted evolution.
15309429	The cholesterol lowering properties of rice bran oil (RBO) containing differing amounts of non-saponifiable components have not been studied in humans, to our knowledge. To evaluate cholesterol lowering effects of RBO, with low and high amounts of gamma-oryzanol (ferulated plant sterols) in mildly hypercholesterolemic men. Mildly hypercholesterolemic men, 38-64 y, starting cholesterol 4.9-8.4 mmol/l (n = 30), consumed 50 g/d peanut oil (PNO) in vehicles for 2 wks during a run-in period, then, without wash-out, were randomly equilibrated (based on initial level of cholesterol) into two groups to consume 50 g/d RBO low (0.05 g/d) or high (0.8 g/d) gamma-oryzanol for 4 wks, in a randomized, controlled, parallel design study. Subjects were free-living and consumed habitual diets with some restrictions. Plasma concentrations of total, LDL-,HDL-cholesterol and triacylglycerol were measured at base line and after 2, 4, and 6 wks. The two RBO types were not significantly different with respect to effects on various cholesterol parameters, at 2 and 4 wks, including total cholesterol, LDL-, HDL- and LDL/HDL cholesterol ratio. Low and high gamma-oryzanolcontaining RBO feeding for 4 wks lowered total plasma cholesterol (6.3 %), LDL-C (10.5 %) and the LDL-C/HDL-C ratio (18.9 %). RBO supplementation at ca. 50% total fat intake improved lipoprotein pattern in mildly hypercholesterolemic men. Methylated sterols in gamma-oryzanol are thought to be largely ineffective at inhibiting dietary cholesterol absorption, but could enhance cholesterol-lowering ability of 4-desmethylsterols. Assuming all ferulated sterols become de-ferulated in the gut, low and high gamma-oryzanolcontaining RBOs provided intestinal loads of 453 and 740 mg/d free 4-desmethylsterols, respectively. This intestinal load of 453-740 mg/d of efficacious free plant sterol equivalents had identical effects on lipoproteins.
15309969	The efficacy of replacing broiler litter with rice mill feed was evaluated in four experiments. In Exp. 1, 40 predominantly Angus steers (initial BW = 277+/-18.2 kg) were fed four dietary treatments for 112 d (five steers per pen; two pens per diet). Dietary treatments (DM basis) were as follows: 1) 47% broiler litter:53% corn; 2) 60% rice mill feed:40% corn; 3) 50% rice mill feed:50% corn; and 4) 40% rice mill feed:60% corn. All diets, along with bermudagrass hay, were fed free choice. Daily gains were faster (P < 0.10) for the 50:50 and 40:60 diets (1.26 and 1.30 kg/d, respectively) than for the broiler litter diet (0.89 kg/d). Daily DMI was less (P < 0.10) by steers consuming rice mill feed-based diets than by those consuming broiler litter-based diets. In Exp. 2, 16 Angus x Charolais steers (initial BW = 277+/-22.7 kg) were fed the same four diets used in Exp. 1 while housed in individual metabolism stalls for determination of nutrient digestibility. Daily DMI was not different (P > 0.10) among diets. Nutrient digestibilities did not differ among diets (P > 0.10). In Exp. 3, 40 Continental cross steers (initial BW = 257+/-21.3 kg) were fed one of four dietary treatments for 112 d (five steers per pen; two pens per diet). On a DM basis, diets were as follows: 1) 47% broiler litter:53% soyhulls; 2) 70% rice mill feed:30% soyhulls; 3) 60% rice mill feed:40% soyhulls; and 4) 50% rice mill feed:50% soyhulls. All diets, along with bermudagrass hay, were fed free choice. Daily gains were less (P < 0.05) for the broiler litter diet than for the 60:40 and 50:50 diets (1.05, 1.16, and 1.28 kg/d, respectively), and steers fed the broiler litter diet consumed less DM than did steers fed the varying rice mill feed-based diets (P < 0.10). In Exp. 4, 16 Angus x Charolais steers (initial BW = 292+/-21.1 kg) were fed the same four diets as in Exp. 3 while housed in individual metabolism stalls for determination of nutrient digestibility. Daily DMI was less (P < 0.01) for the broiler litter diet (5.0 kg/d) than for the 70:30, 60:40, and 50:50 diets (7.8, 7.9, and 7.9 kg/ d, respectively). Digestibilities for DM, OM, and ADF did not differ (P > 0.10) among treatments; however, CP digestibility was greatest (P < 0.10) for the 60:40 diet, and NDF digestibility was least (P < 0.10) for the 70:30 diet. Rice mill feed can be used to replace broiler litter to formulate low-cost diets for stocker calves. Soyhulls and corn can be blended with rice mill feed to produce acceptable backgrounding diets for growing beef calves.
15310069	Although most cereal roots cannot elongate under anoxic conditions, primary roots of three-day-old rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings were able to elongate during a 24-h period of anoxia. Hypoxic pretreatment (H-PT) increased the elongation of their roots. Sucrose synthase (EC 2.4.1.13), glucokinase (EC 2.7.1.2), fructokinase (EC 2.7.1.4), pyruvate decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.1) and alcohol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.1) activities were increased by anoxia in both H-PT and non-pretreated (N-PT) roots. However, these activities were greater in the H-PT roots than in the N-PT roots. The average rate of production of ethanol for the initial 6h after the onset of anoxia was 3.7 and 1.4 micromolg(-1) fresh weight h(-1) for the H-PT and N-PT roots, respectively, suggesting that ethanolic fermentation may increase more quickly in the H-PT roots than in the N-PT roots. Roots of the seedlings lost ATP and total adenine nucleotides in anoxia, however, the H-PT roots maintained higher levels of ATP and total adenine nucleotides compared to the N-PT roots. These results show that rice roots are able to utilize the set of enzymes involved in the metabolism of soluble sugars under anoxia. The ability to maintain an active fermentative metabolism for production of ATP by fueling the glycolytic pathway with fermentable carbohydrate is probably greater in H-PT than in N-PT roots.
15310076	We studied in the seedlings of two rice cultivars (Malviya-36 and Pant-12) the effect of increasing levels of arsenic in situ on the content of sugars and the activity of several enzymes of starch and sucrose metabolism: alpha-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1), beta-amylase (EC 3.2.1.2), starch phosphorylase (EC 2.4.1.1), acid invertase (EC 3.2.1.26), sucrose synthase (EC 2.4.1.13) and sucrose phosphate synthase (EC 2.4.1.14). During a growth period of 10-20 d As2O3 at 25 and 50 microM in the growth medium caused an increase in reducing, non-reducing and total soluble sugars. An increased conversion of non-reducing to reducing sugars was observed concomitant with As toxicity. The activities of alpha-amylase, beta-amylase and sucrose phosphate synthase declined, whereas starch phosphorylase, acid invertase and sucrose synthase were found to be elevated. Results indicate that in rice seedlings arsenic toxicity causes perturbations in carbohydrate metabolism leading to the accumulation of soluble sugars by altering enzyme activity. Sucrose synthase possibly plays a positive role in synthesis of sucrose under As-toxicity.
15310079	A cDNA for a putative 42 kD spermidine synthase (OsSPDS2) was cloned from rice. The deduced OsSPDS2 sequence showed highest similarity with Arabidopsis AtSPDS3. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that OsSPDS2 and AtSPDS3 form a distinctive subclass in the spermidine synthase family in plants. OsSPDS2 mRNA accumulated in roots during long term exposure to chilling temperature (12 degrees C). In contrast, no such induction of the paralogous OsSPDS1 was observed during the chilling treatment. ABA treatment up-regulated OsSPDS2, whereas salt stress did not change OsSPDS2 levels significantly. Data suggested a distinct function of OsSPDS2 in chilling response in rice.
15310161	Cases of gastroenteritis were examined to identify if dietary intake prior to an episode and food-handling and storage practices in the home were risk factors for illness. Cases and controls completed a dietary questionnaire after an event or when well, and questionnaires concerning food-handling, storage and general food-hygiene practices. Comparing cases to themselves when well. subjects were more likely to have eaten cold sliced salami, fried rice and foods cooked elsewhere, and to have had a baby in nappies in the house (OR 1.52-6.24, P< or =0.01). Cases compared to non-cases were more likely to have bought frozen poultry, have eaten foods cooked elsewhere and to have had a baby in nappies in the house (OR 1.44-2.05, P< or = 001). Although food-handling and storage practices are considered important, we were unable to detect an association in this study.
1531032
15310817	Roots of intact wheat plants were grown for 7-12 d in stagnant nutrient solution, containing 0.1% agar, to mimic the lack of convection in waterlogged soil. Net K+ and P uptakes by seminal and nodal roots were measured separately using a split root system. For seminal roots in stagnant solution, net uptakes as a percentage of aerated roots were between 0% and 16% for P, while K+ ranged between 15% uptake and 54% loss. For the more waterlogging-tolerant nodal roots, net uptakes in stagnant nutrient solution, as a percentage of aerated roots, were 31-73% for P and 69-115% for K+. Elongation rates of nodal roots in stagnant nutrient were about 35-43% of those for roots in aerated solution. This partial inhibition occurred in these nodal roots despite their 15% porosity (v/v). Elevation of O2 partial pressures around the shoots to 40 kPa and then to 80 kPa substantially accelerated nodal root elongation in stagnant solution, demonstrating that most of the inhibition seen with ambient O2 around the shoots was associated with a restricted O2 supply to these nodal roots. Thus, in wheat nodal roots, with a partial pressure of 20 kPa O2 around the shoots, O2 diffusion from the shoots did not completely relieve the restrictions on elongation resulting from stagnancy in the nutrient solution. These results contrast with those in the literature for rice, in which roots function efficiently in stagnant solutions (0.1% agar). So, when wheat roots are aerenchymatous there are still restrictions to O2 diffusion in the gas space continuum between the atmosphere and the functional tissues of the roots. This poor acclimation must have been due to inefficiency of the aerenchymatous axes, which may include persistence of anoxic steles, and/or restricted O2 diffusion in other parts of the gas space continuum, in either the shoots and shoot-root junction or in the root tip.
15310932	Thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction (TAIL-PCR) is an efficient tool for the recovery of DNA fragments adjacent to known sequences. A protocol is presented for the amplification of genomic sequences flanking DNA (T-DNA or transposon) insertions using the TAIL-PCR method. The amplified products are suitable as templates for direct sequencing, or for cloning in vectors. Examples are given in use of the protocol for T-DNA tagging in rice using the pCAMBIA binary vectors.
15313631	An attempt at the use of rice husk ash, an agricultural waste, as an adsorbent for the adsorption of lead and mercury from aqueous water is studied. Studies are carried out as a function of contact times, ionic strength, particle size, and pH. Rice husk ash is found to be a suitable adsorbent for the adsorption of lead and mercury ions. The Bangham equation can be used to express the mechanism for adsorption of lead and mercury ions by rice husk ash. Its adsorption capability and adsorption rate are considerably higher and faster for lead ions than for mercury ions. The finer the rice husk ash particles used, the higher the pH of the solution and the lower the concentration of the supporting electrolyte, potassium nitrate solution, the more lead and mercury ions absorbed on rice husk ash. Equilibrium data obtained have been found to fit both the Langmuir and Freundlich adsorption isotherms.
1531430	To define the benefit of rice oral rehydration salts solution in relation to the glucose based World Health Organisation oral rehydration salts solution for treating and preventing dehydration in patients with severe dehydrating diarrhoea. Meta-analysis using data from 13 available randomised trials that compared these two formulations. The studies compared 1367 patients with cholera, severe cholera-like diarrhoea, or acute non-cholera diarrhoea. 668 received the standard WHO solution and 699 the rice based solution. Each trial report was reviewed to determine patient eligibility, the number of patients who were randomised and the number of these excluded from analysis, details of the randomisation procedure, and the precise timing of the outcome measurements. Stool output during the first 24 hours; weighted estimates of the difference in mean stool output between treatments. The rice solution significantly reduced the rate of stool output during the first 24 hours by 36% (95% confidence interval 28 to 44%) in adults with cholera and by 32% (19 to 45%) in children with cholera. The rate of stool loss in infants and children with acute non-cholera diarrhoea was reduced by only 18% (6 to 30%). The benefit of rice oral rehydration salts solution for patients with cholera is sufficiently great to warrant its use in such patients. The benefit is considerably smaller for children with acute, noncholera diarrhoea and should be more precisely defined before its practical value can be judged.
1531513	A simple, relatively inexpensive robotic system that can aid severely disabled persons by providing pick-and-place manipulative abilities to augment the functions of human or trained animal assistants is under development at Rice University and the Baylor College of Medicine. A stand-alone software application program runs on a Macintosh personal computer and provides the user with a selection of interactive windows for commanding the mobile robot via cursor action. A HERO 2000 robot has been modified such that its workspace extends from the floor to tabletop heights, and the robot is interfaced to a Macintosh SE via a wireless communications link for untethered operation. Integrated into the system are hardware and software which allow the user to control household appliances in addition to the robot. A separate Machine Control Interface device converts breath action and head or other three-dimensional motion inputs into cursor signals. Preliminary in-home and laboratory testing has demonstrated the utility of the system to perform useful navigational and manipulative tasks.
15315396	Lactobacillus kefiranofaciens, isolated from kefir grains, produces an extracellular polysaccharide when cultured, not only in PYG10 medium but also in a liquid medium containing a rice hydrolysate that had been previously degraded by treatment with a glucoamylase. The maximum yield of the polysaccharide, using the rice hydrolysate as the medium, was 2.5 g/L after a 7-day culture period at pH 5.0 and 33 degrees C. Compositional analysis, methylation analysis, specific rotation, and (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy revealed that the structures of polysaccharides obtained from these two different culture media are essentially identical. The polysaccharide is composed of a hexasaccharide repeating unit and, thus, is known as kefiran. The weight-average molecular weight and the z-average radius of gyration of a sample, purified from the rice hydrolysate medium, were determined to be 7.6 x 10(5) g/mol and 39.9 nm, respectively, by gel permeation chromatography equipped with a multiangle laser-light-scattering photometer. Changes in blood pressure and serum components were examined in SHRSP/Hos rats, using doses of 100 and 300 mg of kefiran/kg of rat. A suppression in the increase in blood pressure was observed in these rats after 30 days. This activity is discussed in terms of the concentration of serum components of the rat, with emphasis on lipid components such as cholesterols, triglycerides, and free fatty acids.
15315824	The pvr2 locus in pepper codes for a eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) gene that confers resistance to viruses belonging to the potyvirus genus. In this work, we describe the isolation and characterisation of the genomic sequence carrying the pvr2 locus. A Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) library that consisted of 239,232 clones with an average insert size of 123 kilobases (kb) was constructed from a Capsicum annuum line with the pvr2(+) allele for susceptibility to potato virus Y (PVY) and tobacco etch virus (TEV). Based on a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) screen with single-copy markers, three to seven positive BAC clones per markers were identified, indicating that the BAC library is suitable for pepper genome analysis. To determine the genomic organization of the pepper eIF4E gene, the library was screened with primers designed from the cDNA sequence and four positive BAC clones carrying the pvr2 locus were identified. A 7-kb DNA fragment containing the complete eIF4E gene was sub-cloned from the positive BAC clones and analysed. The eIF4E gene is organised into five exons and four introns and showed a strictly conserved exon/intron structure with eIF4E genes from Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. Moreover, the splice sites between plant exons 1/2 and 2/3 are conserved among eukaryotes including human, Drosophila and yeast. Several potential binding sites for MADS box transcription factors within the 5' flanking region of eIF4E genes from the three plant species were also predicted.
15316278	During the last few years compelling evidence has been presented for the occurrence of cytoplasmic/nuclear plant lectins that are not detectable in normal plants but are only induced upon application of well-defined stress conditions. Since both the regulation of the expression and the subcellular location indicate that these 'non-classical lectins' are good candidates to play a physiologically important role as mediators of specific protein-carbohydrate-interactions within the plant cell, a critical assessment is made of the impact of these findings on the development of novel concepts about the role of plant lectins. Based on an analysis of the biochemical, molecular and evolutionary data of a jasmonate-induced chitin-binding lectin from tobacco leaves and a salt/jasmonate-induced leaf lectin from rice it is concluded that these lectins most probably interact with endogenous glycans located within the cytoplasmic/nuclear compartment of the plant cell. Several working mechanisms are proposed to explain how these inducible lectins may fulfill an important regulatory or structural role in stressed cells. In addition, the question of the evolutionary relationship(s) between the newly discovered inducible lectins and their 'classical' constitutively expressed homologs is addressed. Evidence is presented that the 'non-classical lectins' represent the main evolutionary line and that some of their corresponding genes were used as templates for genes encoding storage protein-like 'classical' homologs.
15316284	To monitor gene expression profiles during pollination and fertilization in rice at a genome scale, we generated 73,424 high-quality expressed sequence tags (ESTs) derived from the green/etiolated shoot and pistil (0-5 h after pollination, 5hP) of rice, which were subsequently used to construct a cDNA microarray containing ca. 10 000 unique rice genes. This microarray was used to analyze gene expression in pistil unpollinated (UP), 5hP and 5DAP(5 days after pollination), anther, shoot, root, 10-day-old embryo (10EM) and 10-day-old endosperm (10EN). Clustering analysis revealed that the anther has a gene-expression profile more similar to root than to pistil and most pistil-preferentially expressed genes respond to pollination and/or fertilization. There are 253 ESTs exhibiting differential expression (e +/- 2-fold changes) during pollination and fertilization, and about 70% of them can be assigned a putative function. We also recovered 20 genes similar to pollination-related and/or fertility-related genes previously identified as well as genes that were not implicated previously. Microarray and real-time PCR analyses showed that the array sensitivity was estimated at 1-5 copies of mRNA per cell, and the differentially expressed genes showed a high correlation between the two methods. Our results indicated that this cDNA microarray constructed here is reliable and can be used for monitoring gene expression profiles in rice. In addition, the genes that differentially expressed during pollination represent candidate genes for dissecting molecular mechanism of this important biological process in rice.
15316287	Members of the GRAS gene family encode transcriptional regulators that have diverse functions in plant growth and development such as gibberellin signal transduction, root radial patterning, axillary meristem formation, phytochrome A signal transduction, and gametogenesis. Bioinformatic analysis identified 57 and 32 GRAS genes in rice and Arabidopsis, respectively. Here, we provide a complete overview of this gene family, describing the gene structure, gene expression, chromosome localization, protein motif organization, phylogenetic analysis, and comparative analysis between rice and Arabidopsis. Phylogenetic analysis divides the GRAS gene family into eight subfamilies, which have distinct conserved domains and functions. Both genome/segmental duplication and tandem duplication contributed to the expansion of the GRAS gene family in the rice and Arabidopsis genomes. The existence of GRAS-like genes in bryophytes suggests that GRAS is an ancient family of transcription factors, which arose before the appearance of land plants over 400 million years ago.
15316288	A rice (Oryza sativa L.) semi-dwarf cultivar, Tan-Ginbozu (d35Tan-Ginbozu), contributed to the increase in crop productivity in Japan in the 1950s. Previous studies suggested that the semi-dwarf stature of d35Tan-Ginbozu is caused by a defective early step of gibberellin biosynthesis, which is catalyzed by ent-kaurene oxidase (KO). To study the molecular characteristics of d35Tan-Ginbozu, we isolated 5 KO-like (KOL) genes from the rice genome, which encoded proteins highly homologous to Arabidopsis and pumpkin KOs. The genes (OsKOL1 to 5) were arranged as tandem repeats in the same direction within a 120 kb sequence. Expression analysis revealed that OsKOL2 and OsKOL4 were actively transcribed in various organs, while OsKOL1 and OsKOL5 were expressed only at low levels; OsKOL3 may be a pseudogene. Sequence analysis and complementation experiments demonstrated that OsKOL2 corresponds to D35. Homozygote with null alleles of D35 showed a severe dwarf phenotype; therefore, d35Tan-Ginbozu is a weak allele of D35. Introduction of OsKOL4 into d35Tan-Ginbozu did not rescue its dwarf phenotype, indicating that OsKOL4 is not involved in GA biosynthesis. OsKOL4 and OsKOL5 are likely to take part in phytoalexin biosynthesis, because their expression was promoted by UV irradiation and/or elicitor treatment. Comparing d35Tan-Ginbozu with other high yielding cultivars, we discuss strategies to produce culm architectures suitable for high crop yield by decreasing GA levels.
15316289	A novel CaM-binding protein was isolated through protein-protein interaction based screening of an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library using a 35S calmodulin (CaM) probe. There are four additional homologs in the Arabidopsis genome with similar structures: a BTB domain in the N-terminus and a Zf-TAZ domain in the C-terminus. Hence, they were designated as AtBT1-5 (Arabidopsis thaliana BTB and TAZ domain protein). CaM-binding experiments revealed that all five AtBTs are CaM-binding proteins, and their CaM-binding domains were mapped to the C-terminus. AtBT homologs are also present in rice, but are not present in human, animal, yeast or other organisms, suggesting that the BTB and TAZ domain proteins are plant-specific. The AtBT1-smGFP fusion protein expressed in tobacco BY-2 cells showed that AtBT1 targets the nucleus. Yeast two-hybrid screening using an AtBT1 fragment as bait identified two interacting proteins (AtBET10 and AtBET9) belonging to the family of fsh/Ring3 class transcription regulators. The BTB domain of the AtBTs is required for the interaction, and this protein-protein interaction was confirmed by GST pull-down. AtBET10 also interacts with AtBT2 and AtBT4, and exhibited a transcriptional activation function in yeast cells. AtBTs exhibit varying responses to different stress stimuli, but all five genes responded rapidly to H2O2 and salicylic acid (SA) treatments. These results suggest that AtBTs play a role in transcriptional regulation, and signal molecules such as Ca2+, H2O2, and SA affect transcriptional machinery by altering the expression and conformation of AtBTs which interact with transcriptional activators such as AtBET10.
15316290	It has been demonstrated that insertion of foreign DNA into mammalian genome can profoundly alter the patterns of DNA methylation and transcription of the host genome. Introgression of alien DNA into plant genomes through sexual crossing and genetic engineering are commonly used in breeding, but it is not known if plant genomes have similar responses to alien DNA introgression as those of animals. Two stable rice lines with introgression from wild rice, Zizania latifolia, were analyzed for patterns of cytosine DNA methylation and transcription of a set of selected sequences, including cellular genes and transposable element (TE)-related DNA segments. In 21 of the 30 studied sequences, marked changes in DNA methylation and/or transcription were observed compared with those of the rice parent. In all analyzed sequences, the absence of Zizania homologues in the introgression lines was confirmed. No change in DNA methylation and expression patterns was detected in randomly selected individuals of the rice parent nor in two sibling lines without introgressed Zizania DNA. The changed methylation patterns in both introgression lines were stably maintained in all five randomly sampled individuals of a given line, as well as in selfed progenies of the lines. Changed patterns in methylation and expression were also found in an independently produced asymmetric somatic nuclear hybrid (SH6) of rice and Z. latifolia that involves a different rice genotype but also contains a small amount of Z. latifolia DNA integrated into the rice genome. Thus, we have demonstrated that alien DNA introgression into a plant genome can induce extensive alterations in DNA methylation and transcription of both cellular genes and TE-related DNA segments in a genotype-independent manner.
15316567	Tricin, a flavone found in rice bran, inhibits the growth of human-derived malignant MDA-MB-468 breast tumour cells at submicromolar concentrations. As part of the exploration of tricin as a potential cancer chemopreventive agent, we investigated the duration and cell cycle specificity of growth inhibition elicited by tricin in vitro and the effect of tricin on the development of MDA-MB-468 tumours grown in immune-compromised MF-1 mice in vivo. Preincubation of MDA-MB-468 cells with tricin (1-40 microM) for 72 h compromised cell growth after tricin removal, and such irreversibility was not observed in human breast-derived nonmalignant HBL-100 cells. Tricin (>/=5 microM) arrested MDA-MB-468 cells in the G2/M phase of the cell cycle without inducing apoptosis as adjudged by annexin V staining. In nude mice consumption of tricin with the diet (0.2%, w w(-1)) from 1 week prior to MDA-MB-468 cell implantation failed to impede tumour development. Steady-state levels of tricin in plasma, breast tumour tissue and intestinal mucosa, as measured by HPLC, were 0.13 microM and 0.11 and 63 nmol g(-1), respectively. Cells were exposed to tricin (0.11, 1.1 or 11 microM) in vitro for 72 h and then implanted into mice. The volume of tumours in animals bearing cells pre-exposed to 11 microM tricin was less than a third of that in mice with control cells, while tumours from cells incubated with 0.1 or 1.1 microM tricin were indistinguishable from controls. These results suggest that the potent breast tumour cell growth-inhibitory activity of tricin in vitro does not directly translate into activity in the nude mouse bearing the MDA MB-468 tumour. While the results do not support the notion that tricin is a promising candidate for breast cancer chemoprevention, its high levels in the gastrointestinal tract after dietary intake render exploration of its ability to prevent colorectal carcinogenesis propitious.
15318736	The weaning of piglets is often associated with digestive disorders, particularly diarrhea--postweaning colibacillosis (PWC)--which is caused by infection with enterotoxigenic strains of Escherichia coli. It has been shown previously that a diet for newly weaned pigs based on cooked white rice and animal protein decreases the occurrence of PWC, whereas the addition of carboxymethylcellulose (CMC) to this diet enhances PWC. The aims of the current work were to 1) determine whether substitution of animal protein with plant proteins in the cooked-white-rice diet influenced its protective effects on PWC and 2) confirm that an increase in viscosity of the digesta by adding CMC to the diet favors the development of PWC--with (Exp. 1) or without (Exp. 2) experimental infection of piglets with E. coli. The diets were 1) cooked white rice and animal protein sources (RAP), 2) RAP + CMC added at 40 g of CMC/kg (air-dry basis) of diet, 3) cooked white rice and plant protein sources (RPP), and 4) wheat and plant protein sources (WPP). Experiments 1 and 2 were conducted using 32 and 24 piglets (eight and six per treatment), respectively. Piglets were weaned at 21 d (d 1), and fed ad libitum until slaughter on d 9. In Exp. 1, piglets were orally infected with enterotoxigenic E. coli on d 4, 5, 6, and 7. On d 8 of Exp. 1, the E. coli scores in feces of pigs fed RAP + CMC were higher than with RAP (P < 0.01). On d 9 after weaning, feces from pigs fed diet RAP were normal or moist, whereas feces from pigs fed RAP + CMC were wet to diarrheic. On d 7 of Exp. 2, pigs fed diets RAP + CMC and WPP had wetter feces than pigs fed diets RAP or RPP (P < 0.05). On d 8, the E. coli scores in feces were higher (P < 0.01) with pigs fed RAP + CMC than with all other diets. The E. coli scores in the digesta were also higher with pigs fed RAP + CMC, and to a lesser extent with diet WPP, than with pigs fed RAP or RPP (P < 0.01). The large intestine was heavier in pigs fed diets RPP and WPP, and the digesta were more acidic (P < 0.05). This study confirmed that diet RAP was protective against PWC, and that substitution of animal proteins with plant protein in a rice-based diet did not diminish its protective effects. The addition of CMC to cooked white rice increased digesta viscosity and enhanced PWC. Consequently, this diet represents a useful model for studying this condition.
15319478	Isolates of the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea that carry the gene encoding Avirulence Conferring Enzyme1 (ACE1) are specifically recognized by rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars carrying the resistance gene Pi33. This recognition enables resistant plants to activate a defense response. ACE1 was isolated by map-based cloning and encodes a putative hybrid between a polyketide synthase and a nonribosomal peptide synthetase, enzymes involved in microbial secondary metabolism. ACE1 is expressed exclusively during fungal penetration of host leaves, the time point at which plant defense reactions are triggered. Ace1 appears to be localized in the cytoplasm of the appressorium. Mutation of the putative catalytic site of the beta-ketoacyl synthase domain of Ace1 abolishes recognition of the fungus by resistant rice. This suggests that Ace1 biosynthetic activity is required for avirulence. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that the fungal signal recognized by resistant rice plants is the secondary metabolite whose synthesis depends on Ace1.
15319504	Non-knee-specific software has been widely used for bone mineral density (BMD) measurement at the knee, which coincide with a higher measurement error. This study was conducted to test whether software developed for BMD measurement at the hip could be used in the knee by using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and whether knee rotational alignment or differences in soft tissue substitutes would influence the precision of the BMD measurement. Twelve knees operated with total knee arthroplasty were included. The knees were scanned four to six times each in four rotational positions using DXA with either a Plexiglas rod or rice bags as a soft tissue substitute. The BMD was measured in one manually defined region at the proximal tibia by using the software of Orthopedic. The precision (coefficient of variation) at the knee was 5.1-9.0% when using the Plexiglas rod and 7.3% when using rice bags. The poor precision was mainly explained by inconsistency in tissue baseline establishment and/or by low baseline bone density (Adj R2 = 0.78-0.90, p < 0.000). Neither intentional rotation of the knee nor using different soft tissue substitutes significantly altered the precision. The results suggest that the use of a non-knee-specific software in the prosthetic knee is not appropriate.
15320389	Applying calcium oxide into soil could improve the ability of rice seedlings in low temperature-and damping-off disease resistance. After treated with calcium, the active oxygen eliminating enzyme activities of rice seedlings increased significantly. Compared with control, the SOD activity in seedling's root and shoot increased. The POD activity in rice seedling's root also increased, but decreased in shoot. The CAT activities decreased at the early stage, but increased at late stage. The soluble protein content in seedling's root and shoot was higher than that of the control. In the PAGE pattern of isoperoxidase, the band number of shoot increased, but that of root decreased. AU these changes were part of reasons that applying calcium oxide into soil improved the resistance of rice seedlings to cold and damping-off disease.
15320412	In this work, pot experiments with organic materials were carried out to study the alleviation of Fusarim wilt and Rhizictonia wilt of cucumber and the changes of soil microorganism. The results showed that rice straw, pig feces and wood chip could alleviate Fusarium wiltand Rhizoctonia wilt of cucumber, and the effect of rice strawwas most significant, followed by pig feces and wood chip. The amount of soil microbes was higher in organic materials treatments than in control. The total amount of actinomyces and epidhyte which can inhibit the growth of pathogen was the highest in rice straw treatment, followed by pig feces treatment. No significant change of soil microbial amount was found in wood chip treatment.
15320418	In this paper, the accumulation and translocation of lead in soil-crop ecosystems were studied through fertilization with chemical fertilizer, manure and bio-fertilizer. The results showed that the soil total Pb content was decreased with soil depth. It was 11.14 and 9.37 mg x kg(-1) in 0-15 and 15-30 cm after harvest, respectively. Rice root absorbed lead from soil, and transferred it to stem-leaf and grain. The Pb content in rice plant was root>stem and leaf>grain, which was increased with rice growth. The grains of 606-14 and Liao 294 contained 0. 008 and 0.007 mg x kg(-1) of Pb, respectively, which is under the standard of green food. Variance analysis indicated that the grain yield of different varieties had a significant variance, but no significant variance was found among different treatments. It could be summarized that manure or bio-fertilizer could be the substitute of chemical fertilizer in producing rice.
15322357	Tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs) belong to an aquaporin family of proteins that function as water-transport channels. In this study, we isolated and characterized three novel rice cDNAs for OsTIP1, OsTIP2, and OsTIP3 that are homologous to rice gamma-TIP cDNA. Northern blot hybridization analyses revealed that rice gamma-TIP was expressed in all plant organs. OsTIP1 was expressed in mature seed embryos and during early seed germination. OsTIP2 was expressed exclusively in roots. OsTIP3 was specifically expressed in seeds. These results suggest that the OsTIP1, OsTIP2, and OsTIP3 genes encode discrete, functionally specialized TIPs. Immunocytochemical analysis in rice endosperm cells revealed that rice gamma-TIP was localized only on the protein body type II (PB-II) membranes, whereas OsTIP3 was localized on the PB-II and the aleurone grain membranes. Although both the PB-II and the aleurone grain are derived from vacuoles, these results suggest that they may be derived from different types of vacuoles.
15322373	Rice anthers contain high concentrations of gibberellins A(4) and A(7). To understand their physiological roles, we examined the site of their biosynthesis by analyzing the expression pattern of a gene (OsCPS) encoding coparyl diphosphate synthase in developing rice flowers. Expression was apparent in the anthers 1-2 days before flowering, and CPS mRNA accumulated in the maturing pollen.
15322754	Using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) and random amplified polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs), we have tagged and mapped Gm8, a gene conferring resistance to the rice gall midge (Orseolia oryzae), a major insect pest of rice, onto rice chromosome 8. Using AFLPs, two fragments, AR257 and AS168, were identified that were linked to the resistant and susceptible phenotypes, respectively. Another resistant phenotype-specific marker, AP19(587), was also identified using RAPDs. SCAR primers based on the sequence of the fragments AR257 and AS168 failed to reveal polymorphism between the resistant and the susceptible parents. However, PCR using primers based on the regions flanking AR257 revealed polymorphism that was phenotype-specific. In contrast, PCR carried out using primers flanking the susceptible phenotype-associated fragment AS168 produced a monomorphic fragment. Restriction digestion of these monomorphic fragments revealed polymorphism between the susceptible and resistant parents. Nucleotide BLAST searches revealed that the three fragments show strong homology to rice PAC and BAC clones that formed a contig representing the short arm of chromosome 8. PCR amplification using the above-mentioned primers on a larger population, derived from a cross between two indica rice varieties, Jhitpiti (resistant parent) and TN1 (susceptible parent), showed that there is a tight linkage between the markers and the Gm8 locus. These markers, therefore, have potential for use in marker-aided selection and pyramiding of Gm8 along with other previously tagged gall midge resistance genes [ Gm2, Gm4(t), and Gm7].
15323247	Rhizoctonia solani is a destructive fungal pathogen of many economically important plants all over the world and the causative organism of sheath blight of rice in many tropical countries including Sri Lanka. A repetitive sequence from the genome of R. solani was cloned and characterized with a view to develop a DNA probe and a PCR diagnostic assay for detection of the fungus. The cloned sequence was 1550 bp long and appeared to be interspersed throughout the genome. The cloned sequence hybridized only to R. solani DNA and was sensitive enough to detect 100 pg of R. solani genomic DNA. PCR primers were designed from the cloned sequence and it was possible to develop a PCR assay for the specific detection of the fungal DNA with 10 pg sensitivity.
15323419	We have determined the Rubisco components and activity, whole leaf protein and amino acid components of thermo-sensitive mutant line 1103s of rice (Oryza sativa ssp. indica) leaves during induces green and yellow banding in this study. The results are as follows: The structure and components of Rubisco in the mutant are the same as in the wild form and relatively stable, but the activity of the mutant Rubisco greatly changes as a special protein of molecular weight 56.2 kD (PI=4.5) appears and disappears. When the green-yellow bands appear, the special protein disappears, and the activity of the mutant-rice Rubisco decreases, whereas when the green-yellow bands in the same part of the leaves disappear, the special protein appears and the activity of Rubisco is increase. The above shows the changes of the activity of the mutant-rice Rubisco during photosynthesis are closely related to the special protein in the leaves and its structure and components, and possibly to the regulating protein of Rubisco. The protein particularly regulates metabolic processes of amino acids preventing regulation of the preceding amino acids, such that the formation of the structural material in chloroplast is prevented, and finally the chloroplast thylakoid structure degenerates.
15324297	A well-known characteristic of children with specific language impairment (SLI) is a significant deficit in grammatical morphology production compared with younger, language-matched, typically developing children. This is true for present tense be (am, is, are), as well as other inflectional morphemes. However, grammatical morpheme learning by children with SLI may vary depending on developmental stage. Participants were 8 boys with SLI (42 to 58 months old with mean length of utterances [MLUs] < or = 3.0 morphemes) and 14 MLU-matched controls (girls and boys; mean age of 27 months). These groups were younger and had lower MLUs than groups from oft-cited studies (e.g., Cleave and Rice, 1997; Leonard, Bortolini, Caselli, McGregor, and Sabbadini, 1992; Leonard, Eyer, Bedore, and Grela, 1997; Rice, Wexler, and Hershberger, 1998). The SLI group had a significantly higher percentage of be use in obligatory contexts (46%) than did the younger, typically developing children (27%). This pattern of better performance in grammatical morphology by SLI groups than controls has been reported. Ingram (1972) and Morehead and Ingram (1973) found similar results for children with language impairment in early-MLU stages. Although findings are presented with caution, they afford an opportunity to consider the nature of SLI. If SLI represents a general processing limitation, then that limitation might enable the language learner with SLI to acquire some initial morphological mappings with relative success. This apparent paradox, which also is evident in normal language acquisition, has been termed less is more by Newport (1990). Limited perception and memory force attention to smaller pieces of the input, and these constraints simplify the task for the language learner. SLI is compared with a chronically constrained system that initially assists the learner to achieve basic form-function mappings but ultimately hinders mastery of English morphology.
15326166	UDP-sugars, activated forms of monosaccharides, are synthesized through de novo and salvage pathways and serve as substrates for the synthesis of polysaccharides, glycolipids, and glycoproteins in higher plants. A UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase, designated PsUSP, was purified about 1,200-fold from pea (Pisum sativum L.) sprouts by conventional chromatography. The apparent molecular mass of the purified PsUSP was 67,000 Da. The enzyme catalyzed the formation of UDP-Glc, UDP-Gal, UDP-glucuronic acid, UDP-l-arabinose, and UDP-xylose from respective monosaccharide 1-phosphates in the presence of UTP as a co-substrate, indicating that the enzyme has broad substrate specificity toward monosaccharide 1-phosphates. Maximum activity of the enzyme occurred at pH 6.5-7.5, and at 45 degrees C in the presence of 2 mm Mg(2+). The apparent K(m) values for Glc 1-phosphate and l-arabinose 1-phosphate were 0.34 and 0.96 mm, respectively. PsUSP cDNA was cloned by reverse transcriptase-PCR. PsUSP appears to encode a protein with a molecular mass of 66,040 Da (600 amino acids) and possesses a uridine-binding site, which has also been found in a human UDP-N-acetylhexosamine pyrophosphorylase. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that PsUSP can be categorized in a group together with homologues from Arabidopsis and rice, which is distinct from the UDP-Glc and UDP-N-acetylhexosamine pyrophosphorylase groups. Recombinant PsUSP expressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed the formation of UDP-sugars from monosaccharide 1-phosphates and UTP with efficiency similar to that of the native enzyme. These results indicate that the enzyme is a novel type of UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase, which catalyzes the formation of various UDP-sugars at the end of salvage pathways in higher plants.
15327126	1. Rice bran processed by extrusion cooking, roasting or pelleting and treated with antioxidant was used in broiler starter and finisher diets at various concentrations up to 500 g/kg. 2. Extrusion cooking gave the best performance, followed by roasting, while non-significant differences were observed between raw and pelleted bran. 3. Increasing the amount of rice bran in broiler diets resulted in significantly negative effects on growth performance. Non-significant differences were observed in mortality and dressing percentage due to different processes and concentrations of rice bran in the diet. Organ weights were significantly higher on raw and pelleted rice bran as compared to extruded and roasted bran. Liver and heart weights significantly increased with increasing contents of rice bran above 200g/kg, while pancreas weight increased with an addition of rice bran. 4. Treating the rice bran with antioxidant up to 250ppm had non-significant effects on broiler performance.
15327243	To understand the CO2 emission from soil-crop system as influenced by crop growth and tissue N content, pot and field experiments were carried out during 2001-02 wheat and rice growing seasons. Black chambers were used to take gas samples within a closed soil-crop system. The CO2 emission rate was detected by a gas chromatograph. Seasonal change of the CO2 emission was observed from the soil-crop system. Respiration from the soil-rice system was higher than that from the soil-wheat system. Dark respiration of the crop shoot was positively correlated to the shoot biomass. The respiration coefficient Rd, defined as the amount of CO2-C respired by per unit biomass C within one day under a reference temperature of 25 degrees C, can be well quantitatively expressed by shoot N content for either wheat or rice crop. Relationship between the Rd and the N content can be described as a linear regression of Rd = 0.0124N - 0.0076 (R2=0.9879, p<0.001) for the wheat crop and as a quadratic equation of Rd = 0.0085N2 - 0.0049N (R2=0.9776, p<0.001) for the rice crop, respectively. The crop roots promoted the soil respiration greatly, which increased by 178% for the wheat and 338% for the rice in comparison with the respiration from root-free soil. A further calculation of the root respiration, including root autotrophic respiration and rhizosphere respiration, suggested that the contribution of crop rhizosphere respiration to the total soil respiration was greater in the upland soil than that in the irrigated paddy soil.
15327374	We report here on crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of plant class I chitinase from rice (OsChia1b). Similar single crystals of full-length OsChia1b were obtained under two independent conditions. The crystals grown under these conditions diffracted up to 2.1 and 2.5 angstroms resolution, respectively, at a synchrotron beamline, and were found to belong to the tetragonal space group P4(3)2(1)2.
15329414	The dual-specificity CDC25 phosphatases are critical positive regulators of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs). Even though an antagonistic Arabidopsis thaliana WEE1 kinase has been cloned and tyrosine phosphorylation of its CDKs has been demonstrated, no valid candidate for a CDC25 protein has been reported in higher plants. We identify a CDC25-related protein (Arath;CDC25) of A. thaliana, constituted by a sole catalytic domain. The protein has a tyrosine-phosphatase activity and stimulates the kinase activity of Arabidopsis CDKs. Its tertiary structure was obtained by NMR spectroscopy and confirms that Arath;CDC25 belongs structurally to the classical CDC25 superfamily with a central five-stranded beta-sheet surrounded by helices. A particular feature of the protein, however, is the presence of an additional zinc-binding loop in the C-terminal part. NMR mapping studies revealed the interaction with phosphorylated peptidic models derived from the conserved CDK loop containing the phosphothreonine-14 and phosphotyrosine-15. We conclude that despite sequence divergence, Arath;CDC25 is structurally and functionally an isoform of the CDC25 superfamily, which is conserved in yeast and in plants, including Arabidopsis and rice.
15329460	Grain dust and other irritants affect the airway of allergic patients in rice-growing area during the harvest. The aim of this study was to elucidate the mechanism of airway hypersensitivity in rice-growing areas during the harvest. Firstly, the effect of rice-husk dust on eosinophil activation was studied. Secondary, the concentration of lipopolysaccharides (LPS), a potent activator of inflammatory cells, in rice-husk dust was measured. Since it is possible for LPS, a component of gram-negative bacterial cell wall, to adhere to the particle of smoke generated from rice-husk dust, LPS contained in the smoke was also measured. Furthermore, chemical irritants contained in the smoke generated from the rice-husk dust were analyzed. Microscopically, the dust contained fine thorns dropped off from the outer sheath of the rice, and irritated the skin, throat and eyes. The grain dust extract increased the expressions of eosinophil activation markers. These up-regulatory effects were largely dependent on LPS. The smoke contained LPS and several chemical irritants such as formaldehyde and acetaldehyde. Rice-husk dust and its smoke, hazardous air pollutants, probably play a major role in the aggravation of airway diseases in agricultural areas.
15331090	DNA double-strand-breaks (DSB) are the most severe lesion in cells exposing to ionizing radiation and many other stress environments. Repair of DNA DSB is therefore critical to cellular survival. In this work, we observed the double-stranded DNA end-binding (DEB) like activities in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. TN5) suspension cells and hypocotyls from etiolated mung bean (Vigna radiata L. TN5) seedlings. Higher plant DEB-like protein binds primarily to linearized double-stranded DNA ends. Competition of unlabeled probe was examined in double-stranded DEB assay of cell extracts from rice and mung bean. DEB-like activities of higher plants did not depend on sequence and types of double-stranded DNA ends. Distinct electrophoretic mobility shift patterns and binding features further indicate that DEB-like factors from various sources might not share identical structure and function, and probably belong to different types of DEB proteins from higher plants. Our evidence suggests that DEB proteins are certainly ubiquitous in all organisms probably for repairing and processing double-stranded DNA breaks from formidable lethal lesion.
15331268	Food intake is the main source of exposure to dioxin-like compounds for humans. The results of a surveillance programme on polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and co-planar polychlorinated biphenyls (co-PCBs) in 77 food samples from the Greek market and producers are presented. The study included the analyses of milk and dairy products, meat and meat products, fish, vegetable oil, eggs, fruit, vegetable and rice collected between August and December 2002. After extraction, extracts were cleaned up on a series of carbon column chromatography, silica gel, alumina chromatography, and then analysed by high resolution gas chromatography/high resolution mass spectrometry. All samples had a dioxin content far below the EC Regulation (2375/2001/EC) limits.
15332130	RAPD (randomly amplified polymorphic DNA) and ISSR (inter-simple sequence repeat) fingerprinting on HpaII/MspI-digested genomic DNA of nine elite japonica rice cultivars implies inter-cultivar DNA methylation polymorphism. Using both DNA fragments isolated from RAPD or ISSR gels and selected low-copy sequences as probes, methylation-sensitive Southern blot analysis confirms the existence of extensive DNA methylation polymorphism in both genes and DNA repeats among the rice cultivars. The cultivar-specific methylation patterns are stably maintained, and can be used as reliable molecular markers. Transcriptional analysis of four selected sequences (RdRP, AC9, HSP90 and MMR) on leaves and roots from normal and 5-azacytidine-treated seedlings of three representative cultivars shows an association between the transcriptional activity of one of the genes, the mismatch repair (MMR) gene, and its CG methylation patterns.
15332548	A 42-year-old female patient underwent total gastrectomy for gastric cancer (Borrmann's Type 3). Many rice-grain sized peritoneal metastases were observed in the transverse colon and mesenterium. The lesion was diagnosed as stage IV cancer and the degree of radical cure was determined to be C. Chemotherapy with TS-1 was administered postoperatively. In each cycle, the drug was administered at a daily dose of 100 mg for 4 weeks, followed by a drug-free period of 2 weeks. The adverse reactions were mild, and she underwent the 2nd and further courses of therapy on an outpatient basis. Since she had acute cholecystitis during the 12th course, the drug was withdrawn for 2 months. Thereafter, the drug was started again after resolution of the cholecystitis. At present, ie, 3 years and 2 months after the surgery, the patient is receiving the 23rd course of chemotherapy on an outpatient basis, and abdominal CT shows no evidence of increase in the peritoneal metastases, enlargement of the intraperitoneal lymph nodes, or ascites.
15334031	We have previously shown that erythropoietin (Epo) exerts neuroprotective effects in the Rice-Vannucci model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. However, the mechanisms of Epo protection in this model are still unclear. In the present study, we studied the effects of systemically administered Epo on lipid peroxidation levels and antioxidant enzyme (superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase) activities following hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in neonatal rats. Seven-day-old Wistar rat pups were subjected to left carotid artery occlusion followed by 2.5 h of hypoxic exposure. Brain lipid peroxidation levels and antioxidant enzyme activities were measured in the injured hemispheres 24 h after the hypoxic-ischemic insult. Hypoxic-ischemic injury significantly increased the thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance levels in the injured hemispheres as compared to the control group. In addition, glutathione peroxidase activity was significantly elevated in Epo-treated animals compared to saline-treated animals and the control group. These results suggest that Epo exerts neuroprotective effects against hypoxic-ischemic brain injury at least partially via the modulation of antioxidant enzyme activity.
15334960	Based on the summarization, induction and extraction of dynamic relationships between growth characteristics, variety type, farming system and ecological conditions via reading literature and consulting experts, a knowledge model for designing the suitable sowing date of rice under varied environments was developed through knowledge engineering and system analysis methods. The model could precisely quantify the suitable sowing date under different environments and production systems. Case studies for the model with the data sets of daily weather conditions, typical varieties, seedling nursery methods and farming systems at 7 different eco-sites indicated a good performance of the model system in decision-making and its wide applicability, and the model could help farmers to use the resources such as sunshine and water effectively.
15334961	The production of nuisanceless rice was conducted by the technique of rice-duck mutualism without applying any pesticide and chemical fertilizer. The results showed that compared to the control, the effect of eliminating weeds was over 99.4%, and the cardinal numbers of plant diseases and insect pests reduced obviously. Nutrients and dissolved oxygen in paddy water and rapidly available nutrients in soil increased, but after maturing stage, compared to basal fertility, rapidly available P and K decreased. The N, P, and K absorption amounts of rice plant, rice yield, setting panicles rate, filled grains and ripened rate increased. The milling, appearance, nutritional, cooking and eating quality of rice improved, especially in reducing chalkiness. The comprehensive benefits of paddy field enhanced obviously.
15334962	A field experiment was conducted to study the effects of nutrient and water regimes on lodging resistance of rice plant by measuring and comparing the morphological and physical traits and the K2O and SiO2 contents of rice basal stems. The results indicated that a combined application of chemical fertilizers and organic materials, especially and rice straw (CS), could markedly increase the diameter, wall thickness and weight of basal stems, but reduce plant height, which resulted in the effective increase of snapping resistance (RS) and marked decrease of lodging index (LI). The effectiveness of the combined application of chemical fertilizers and rice straw (CS) on the increase of lodging resistance of rice plant was greater in alternate wetting and drying (AWD) and controlled irrigation (DRA), compared to continuous waterlogging (CWL). In addition, the combined application of chemical fertilizers and organic sources, especially with rice straw (CS), greatly increased the K2O and SiO2 contents in rice basal stems, especially in alternate wetting and drying (AWD) and controlled irrigation (DRA). Correlation analysis showed that the wall thickness, weight and snapping resistance of basal stems were significantly positively correlated to the K2O and SiO2 contents in rice basal stems (P<0.05 or P<0.01) in alternate wetting and drying (AWD) and controlled irrigation (DRA).
15334963	This study showed that when lanthanum was in lower concentration (< or = 50 microg x ml(-1)), the membrane permeability of rice root was stabilized by decreasing the electrolyte exosmosis, and the contents of K+, Ca2+, P and H+ in root exudate were lower than the control; while the concentration of La3+ was in the range of 100-400 microg x ml(-1), the electrolyte exosmosis was reduced in the first 6 hours, and then significantly increased. When the concentration of La3+ was over 500 microg x ml(-1), the electrolyte exosmosis was continuously enlarged because of the destruction of the membrane. Under this condition, K+, Ca2+, P and H+ in root exudate were higher than the control. It could be concluded that the concentration of 50 microg x ml(-1) La3+ was safe to rice growing.
15336357	Monascus purpureus-fermented rice (red yeast rice) was one of the food supplements that had the ability of lowering the blood-lipid levels, and monacolins have been proved to be main active constituents. In total 14 monacolin compounds such as monacolin K (mevinolin), J, L, M, X, and their hydroxy acid form, as well as dehydromonacolin K, dihydromonacolin L, compactin, 3alpha-hydroxy-3,5-dihydromonacolin L, etc. were identified in red yeast rice, using high-performance liquid chromatography with photodiode array detector and tandem mass spectrometry. A chemical fingerprint profiling method to display bioactive monacolins in red yeast rice was established and could be used for the quality control of the target material and its related products. Ten finish products labeled as red yeast rice from different manufacturers in marketing were traced using the chromatographic chemical profiling method, and the results show that only two of them were similar while the other eight were significantly different from the reference red yeast rice. All of these materials including raw material powder and finished products available were quantified and the contents of monacolins were calculated with reference of monacolin K (mevinolin) as the standard.
15336683	The grasshoppers of the genus Oxya are well known to damage rice, sugar cane, and other crops, yet their phylogenetic relationships have not been examined with molecular data. In this study, we obtained the 432 bp DNA sequences of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene from 91 individuals of nine Oxya species and two outgroups (Gesonula punctifrons and Acrida cinerea). Phylogenetic analyses for the molecular data set were then carried out using the maximum parsimony and neighbor-joining methods. The results showed that the nine Oxya species form four well-supported clades, which include (1) O. intricata and O. flavefemura; (2) O. japonica and O. bicingula; (3) O. agavisa; and (4) O. chinensis, O. brachyptera, O. adentata, and O. hainanensis, respectively. In particular, the monophyly of O. hainanensis and O. agavisa is strongly supported, respectively. However, O. flavefemura and O. intricata, O. bicingula, and O. japonica form paraphyletic groups, respectively, and O. chinensis, O. adentata, and O. brachyptera form a polyphyletic group, suggesting that they should be merged as few as three species.
15337457	Pectin methylesterases (PMEs) are enzymes produced by bacteria, fungi and higher plants. They belong to the carbohydrate esterase family CE-8. This study deals with comparison of 127 amino acid sequences of this family containing the five characteristic sequence segments: 44_GxYxE, 113_QAVAL, 135_QDTL, 157_DFIFG, 223_LGRPW (Daucus carota numbering). Six strictly conserved residues (Gly44, Gly154, Asp157, Gly161, Arg225 and Trp227) and six conservative ones (Ile39, Ser86, Ser137, Ile152, Ile159 and Leu223) were identified. A set of 70 representative PMEs was created. The sequences were aligned and the evolutionary tree based on the alignment was calculated. The tree reflected the taxonomy: the fungal and bacterial PMEs formed their own clusters and the plant enzymes were grouped into eight separate clades. The plant PME from Vitis riparia was placed in a common clade with fungi. Three plant clades (Plant 1, 2 and 3) were relatively homogenous reflecting high degree of mutual sequence identity. The clade Plant 4 contained PMEs from flower parts (mostly form pollen) and was heterogenous, like the clades Plant 1a and 2a, which moreover exhibit an intermediate character. The clades Plant X1 and X2 were situated in the tree close to microbial clades and represented atypical plant PMEs. Taking into account the remaining plant PMEs, an expanded plant alignment and tree (with most Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa enzymes), were prepared. An exclusive Arabidopsis alignment and tree indicated the existence of a new plant clade X3. In the pre pro region of most plant enzymes a longer conserved segment containing basic dipeptide, R(K)/R(K), that precedes the N-terminal end of PME was revealed. This was not observed in the clade Plant X1 and majority of the clade Plant X2. This study brings further the description of occurrence of potential glycosylation sites in pre pro sequences and in mature enzymes as well as important amino acid residues, such as aspartates, cysteines, histidines and other aromatic residues (Tyr, Phe and Trp), with discussion of their possible function in the activity of PMEs.
15337490
15339013	The present study aimed to quantify the proportion of 13C from energy and protein feed ingredients that follow the metabolic routing of the liver and muscle in broiler chickens. A stable isotope of carbon technique was used that is based on the isotopic discrimination that occurs in the plants during the photosynthesis process. One-day-old male chicks were subjected to treatments based on free choice of energy and protein sources. Rice bran (R) and soybean meal (S), C3 plants, have higher isotopic ratios than corn (C), a C4 plant, and corn gluten meal (G). Choices were R+S, C+G, R+G, C+S, or R+C+G+S. A complete feed (CF) was a sixth treatment. Feed intake and BW were measured at 30 d of age, when liver and breast muscle were collected for isotopic analysis. Treatments affected the amount of feed intake and the choices of energy or protein sources. Complete feed had the largest intake, differing from the other treatments that had free-choice feeding. Final BW was a direct reflection of consumption by these birds in all treatments. The isotopic results indicated that the 13C/12C ratio was generally higher in breast muscle than in liver, probably because of higher protein content. Moreover, in the liver, the proportion of 13C retained from the energy ingredient was greater than the proportion from the protein ingredient. That is in contrast to muscle, where the proportion of 13C retained from the protein ingredient was greater than from the energy ingredient that was self-selected.
15340691	Transgenic locus composition and T-DNA linkage configuration were assessed in a population of rice plants transformed using the dual-binary vector system pGreen (T-DNA containing the bar and gus genes)/pSoup (T-DNA containing the aphIV and gfp genes). Transgene structure, expression and inheritance were analysed in 62 independently transformed plant lines and in around 4,000 progeny plants. The plant lines exhibited a wide variety of transgenic locus number and composition. The most frequent form of integration was where both T-DNAs integrated at the same locus (56% of loci). When single-type T-DNA integration occurred (44% of loci), pGreen T-DNA was preferentially integrated. In around half of the plant lines (52%), the T-DNAs integrated at two independent loci or more. In these plants, both mixed and single-type T-DNA integration often occurred concurrently at different loci during the transformation process. Non-intact T-DNAs were present in 70-78% of the plant lines causing 14-21% of the loci to contain only the mid to right border part of a T-DNA. In 53-66% of the loci, T-DNA integrated with vector backbone sequences. Comparison of transgene presence and expression in progeny plants showed that segregation of the transgene phenotype was not a reliable indicator of either transgene inheritance or T-DNA linkage, as only 60-80% of the transgenic loci were detected by the expression study. Co-expression (28% of lines) and backbone transfer (53-66% of loci) were generally a greater limitation to the production of marker-free T(1) plants expressing the gene of interest than co-transformation (71% of lines) and unlinked integration (44% of loci).
15341377
15341631	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) produces ent-copalyl diphosphate (ent-CDP) and syn-CDP as precursors for several classes of phytoalexins and the phytohormones, gibberellins (GAs). It has recently been shown that a loss-of-function mutation of OsCPS1, a gene encoding a putative ent-CDP synthase, results in a severely GA-deficient dwarf phenotype in rice. To clarify the biological functions of the ent- and syn-CDP synthases involved in the biosynthesis of phytoalexins and/or GAs, we isolated two cDNAs, OsCyc1 and OsCyc2, encoding putative diterpene cyclases from ultraviolet (UV)-irradiated rice leaves (cv. Nipponbare). The production of phytoalexins in rice leaves is known to be highly induced by UV treatment. Using a bacterial expression system, we demonstrated that OsCyc1 encodes syn-CDP synthase and that OsCyc2 and OsCPS1 encode ent-CDP synthase. The level of expression of the OsCyc1 and OsCyc2 transcripts in rice leaves increased drastically in response to UV treatment, whereas expression of the OsCPS1 transcript was not induced by UV light. These results suggest that OsCyc1, OsCyc2 and OsCPS1 are responsible for the biosynthesis of momilactones A and B and oryzalexin S, oryzalexins A-F and phytocassanes A-E, and GAs, respectively. Our results strongly suggest the presence of two ent-CDP synthase isoforms in rice, one that participates in the biosynthesis of GAs and a second that is involved in the biosynthesis of phytoalexins.
15341648	The first barrier to infection encountered by foliar pathogens is the host cuticle. To traverse this obstacle, many fungi produce specialized infection cells called appressoria. MST12 is essential for appressorium-mediated penetration and infectious growth by the rice pathogen Magnaporthe grisea. In this study, we have characterized in detail the penetration defects of an mst12 deletion mutant. Appressoria formed by the mst12 mutant developed normal turgor pressure and ultrastructure but failed to form penetration pegs either on cellophane membranes or on plant epidermal cells. Deletion and site-directed mutagenesis analyses indicated that both the homeodomain and zinc finger domains, but not the middle region, of MST12 are essential for appressorial penetration and plant infection. The mst12 mutant appeared to be defective in microtubule reorganization associated with penetration peg formation. In mature appressoria, the mutant lacked vertical microtubules observed in the wild type. The mst12 mutant also failed to elicit localized host defence responses, including papilla formation and autofluorescence. Our data indicate that generation of appressorium turgor pressure and formation of the penetration peg are two independent processes. MST12 may play important roles in regulating penetration peg formation and directing the physical forces exerted by the appressorium turgor in mature appressoria.
15341665	On 30th July 2002, the Suffolk Communicable Disease Control Team received notifications of gastrointestinal illness due to Salmonella Enteritidis in subjects who had eaten food from a Chinese restaurant on 27th July. An Outbreak Control Team was formed resulting in extensive epidemiological, microbiological and environmental investigations. Attempts were made to contact everybody who ate food from the restaurant on 27th July and a standard case definition was adopted. Using a pre-designed proforma information was gathered from both sick and well subjects. Food specific attack rates were calculated and two-tailed Fisher's exact test was used to test the difference between type of food consumed and the health status. Using a retrospective cohort design univariate Relative Risks and 95% Confidence Intervals were calculated for specific food items. Data was gathered on 52 people of whom 38 developed gastrointestinal symptoms; 16 male and 22 female. The mean age was 27 years. The mean incubation period was 30 hours with a range of 6 to 90 hours. Food attack rates were significantly higher for egg, special and chicken fried rice. Relative risk and the Confidence interval for these food items were 1.97 (1.11-3.48), 1.56 (1.23-1.97) and 1.48 (1.20-1.83) respectively. Interviews with the chef revealed that many eggs were used in the preparation of egg-fried rice, which was left at room temperature for seven hours and was used in the preparation of the other two rice dishes. Of the 31 submitted stool specimens 28 tested positive for S Enteritidis phage type 34a and one for S Enteritidis phage type 4. In the absence of left over food available for microbiological examination, epidemiological investigation strongly suggested the eggs used in the preparation of the egg-fried rice as the vehicle for this outbreak. This investigation highlights the importance of safe practices in cooking and handling of eggs in restaurants.
15342528	In several crop species within the Triticeae tribe of the grass family Poaceae, single major aluminum (Al) tolerance genes have been identified that effectively mitigate Al toxicity, a major abiotic constraint to crop production on acidic soils. However, the trait is quantitatively inherited in species within other tribes, and the possible ancestral relationships between major Al tolerance genes and QTL in the grasses remain unresolved. To help establish these relationships, we conducted a molecular genetic analysis of Al tolerance in sorghum and integrated our findings with those from previous studies performed in crop species belonging to different grass tribes. A single locus, AltSB, was found to control Al tolerance in two highly Al tolerant sorghum cultivars. Significant macrosynteny between sorghum and the Triticeae was observed for molecular markers closely linked to putatively orthologous Al tolerance loci present in the group 4 chromosomes of wheat, barley, and rye. However, AltSB was not located within the homeologous region of sorghum but rather mapped near the end of sorghum chromosome 3. Thus, AltSB not only is the first major Al tolerance gene mapped in a grass species that does not belong to the Triticeae, but also appears to be different from the major Al tolerance locus in the Triticeae. Intertribe map comparisons suggest that a major Al tolerance QTL on rice chromosome 1 is likely to be orthologous to AltSB, whereas another rice QTL on chromosome 3 is likely to correspond to the Triticeae group 4 Al tolerance locus. Therefore, this study demonstrates a clear evolutionary link between genes and QTL encoding the same trait in distantly related species within a single plant family.
15342529	Many AFLP studies include relatively unrelated genotypes that contribute noise to data sets instead of signal. We developed: (1) estimates of expected AFLP similarities between unrelated genotypes, (2) significance tests for AFLP similarities, enabling the detection of unrelated genotypes, and (3) weighted similarity coefficients, including band position information. Detection of unrelated genotypes and use of weighted similarity coefficients will make the analysis of AFLP data sets more informative and more reliable. Test statistics and weighted coefficients were developed for total numbers of shared bands and for Dice, Jaccard, Nei and Li, and simple matching (dis)similarity coefficients. Theoretical and in silico AFLP fragment length distributions (FLDs) were examined as a basis for the tests. The in silico AFLP FLD based on the Arabidopsis thaliana genome sequence was the most appropriate for angiosperms. The G + C content of the selective nucleotides in the in silico AFLP procedure significantly influenced the FLD. Therefore, separate test statistics were calculated for AFLP procedures with high, average, and low G + C contents in the selective nucleotides. The test statistics are generally applicable for angiosperms with a G + C content of approximately 35-40%, but represent conservative estimates for genotypes with higher G + C contents. For the latter, test statistics based on a rice genome sequence are more appropriate.
15342564	Dense coverage of the rice genome with polymorphic DNA markers is an invaluable tool for DNA marker-assisted breeding, positional cloning, and a wide range of evolutionary studies. We have aligned drafts of two rice subspecies, indica and japonica, and analyzed levels and patterns of genetic diversity. After filtering multiple copy and low quality sequence, 408,898 candidate DNA polymorphisms (SNPs/INDELs) were discerned between the two subspecies. These filters have the consequence that our data set includes only a subset of the available SNPs (in particular excluding large numbers of SNPs that may occur between repetitive DNA alleles) but increase the likelihood that this subset is useful: Direct sequencing suggests that 79.8% +/- 7.5% of the in silico SNPs are real. The SNP sample in our database is not randomly distributed across the genome. In fact, 566 rice genomic regions had unusually high (328 contigs/48.6 Mb/13.6% of genome) or low (237 contigs/64.7 Mb/18.1% of genome) polymorphism rates. Many SNP-poor regions were substantially longer than most SNP-rich regions, covering up to 4 Mb, and possibly reflecting introgression between the respective gene pools that may have occurred hundreds of years ago. Although 46.2% +/- 8.3% of the SNPs differentiate other pairs of japonica and indica genotypes, SNP rates in rice were not predictive of evolutionary rates for corresponding genes in another grass species, sorghum. The data set is freely available at http://www.plantgenome.uga.edu/snp.
15344316	Transformation of two-line genetic male sterile indica rice variety Pei'ai 64S was conducted by particle bombardment. Three insect-resisting genes ligased into plasmid vector pKC-3 was introduced into calli derived from mature embryo and a total of 33 transgenic plants had been obtained. The PCR and Southern blot analysis of each different gene in R0 plants and also PCR analysis of each different gene in R1 plants showed the integration of three insect-resisting genes into the genome of transgenic plants which could stably pass down.
15344328	The development of mature tracheary elements (TEs) of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nongkeng 58s-SD) stamen from big-vacuole to trinucleate pollen stage was studied with lead phosphate--deposition technique. At big-vacuole pollen stage, mature TEs, both in filament and connective, were short of ATPase activity. However, ATPase activity appeared at binucleate pollen stage; in filament, one or two vascular bundle cell (s) next to TE degenerated earlier than the rest; and the plasma membrane of degenerating cell (DC) always exhibited high ATPase activity on condition that the adjoining TE was of fully stretched second wall; when the second wall only turned up far off DC, the plasma membrane of DC still showed high ATPase activity except on borderline between DC and TE; in connective at the same stage, TEs also exhibited high ATPase activity, but the vascular bundle cell(s) adjoining TEs degenerated much later than their counterparts in filament. At trinucleate pollen stage, materials, either with or without ATPase activity, were observed both in filament and connective TEs. The above results indicated that (some of the) materials in mature TEs come from filament DC.
15344330	The term RNA editing is generally used to describe those molecular processes in which the information content is altered in an RNA molecule. This process is not limited to mRNA since alterations of non-informational RNA have also been found. RNA editing exists extensively in the higher plant mitochondria, and is the necessary step for forming functional proteins. In this paper, the research materials are the gametopthyte male sterility line (A), maintainer line (B) and F1 hybrid (F1) of HL-type CMS. 15 editing sites are found in the transcripts of coxII by comparing cDNAs and DNAs sequences. A,B and F1 have same Editing sites. When editing occurs at the first or second position of codons, the encoded amino acid is likely to be altered. As a result, the conservation of the predicted protein is improved as compared with other organisms.
15344380	In order to improve the embryogenic callus induction rate and the regeneration rate of JiaHe-ZaoZhan rice, the influence of different factors were investigated, media with different hormones were used. Induction medium was supplemented with 1.5 mg/L 2,4-D + 3 mg/L NAA + 0.1 mg/L KT + 1 mg/L phytic acid + 20 mg/L PAA. Embryogenic call were treated under the condition of 25 degrees C before transferring to regeneration medium, the regeneration medium contained 0.5 mg/L 6-BA + 3 mg/L NAA + 0.5 mg/L KT + 1 mg/L phytic acid. The experiment results indicated that the hormone treatments had certain effects on the callus induction. Under the optimal medium, culture condition and the hormone treatments, the embryogenic callus induction could reach over 95%, and dry treatment of embryogenic callus had been found to increase the frequency of plant regeneration, significantly the plant regeneration rate could reach over 80%. Transplanted into pots, the young plants grew well. Then a experimental system with stability and high regenerating efficiency has been established for the mature seeds of rice (JiaHe-ZaoZhan).
15344510	We report here on studies designed to asses the effects of paper mill effluents on non-reproductive functions of free-ranging and captive Florida largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides floridanus). This was accomplished by conducting an outdoor tank study, in which fish were exposed to well water or to 10%, 20%, 40%, and 80% full strength effluent for 28 or 56 days, and by sampling largemouth bass from sites within the St. Johns River, Florida, upstream and downstream from a paper mill plant. Blood and plasma samples from fish from the tank study and from fish sampled from the ambient sites were analyzed for over 20 variables. We also determined liver and spleen weights and examined them histologically. The most significant finding from the tank study was an increase in the concentration of albumin and hepatosomatic index for bass exposed to > or = 20% effluents for 56 days. Spleenosomatic index and number of melanomacrophage centers were decreased in bass from effluent-dominated sites (Palatka and Rice Creek), whereas concentrations of calcium, phosphorous, glucose, and creatinine were elevated in fish from these sites, compared to fish from reference streams. Fish from Rice Creek also had fewer red blood cells, and male bass from Palatka had lower concentrations of cholesterol. Plasma concentrations of albumin and hepatic concentrations of glutathione were elevated in males from Palatka, and both females and males from Rice Creek had higher concentrations of globulin. These results indicate a complex pattern of effects of paper mill effluents on several physiological functions. However, despite the myriad of treatment and site-related effects, most physiological parameters fell within normal ranges when compared to reports on largemouth bass and other freshwater species.
15345039	The complete sequence of rice centromere 8 reveals a small amount of centromere-specific satellite sequence in blocks interrupted by retrotransposons and other repetitive DNA, in an arrangement that is strikingly similar in overall size and content to other centromeres of multicellular eukaryotes.
15345049	A class of eukaryotic non-coding RNAs termed microRNAs (miRNAs) interact with target mRNAs by sequence complementarity to regulate their expression. The low abundance of some miRNAs and their time- and tissue-specific expression patterns make experimental miRNA identification difficult. We present here a computational method for genome-wide prediction of Arabidopsis thaliana microRNAs and their target mRNAs. This method uses characteristic features of known plant miRNAs as criteria to search for miRNAs conserved between Arabidopsis and Oryza sativa. Extensive sequence complementarity between miRNAs and their target mRNAs is used to predict miRNA-regulated Arabidopsis transcripts. Our prediction covered 63% of known Arabidopsis miRNAs and identified 83 new miRNAs. Evidence for the expression of 25 predicted miRNAs came from northern blots, their presence in the Arabidopsis Small RNA Project database, and massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) data. Putative targets functionally conserved between Arabidopsis and O. sativa were identified for most newly identified miRNAs. Independent microarray data showed that the expression levels of some mRNA targets anti-correlated with the accumulation pattern of their corresponding regulatory miRNAs. The cleavage of three target mRNAs by miRNA binding was validated in 5' RACE experiments. We identified new plant miRNAs conserved between Arabidopsis and O. sativa and report a wide range of transcripts as potential miRNA targets. Because MPSS data are generated from polyadenylated RNA molecules, our results suggest that at least some miRNA precursors are polyadenylated at certain stages. The broad range of putative miRNA targets indicates that miRNAs participate in the regulation of a variety of biological processes.
15345425	The distribution of nitrogenase activity in the rice-soil system and the possible contribution of epiphytic cyanobacteria on rice plants and other macrophytes to this activity were studied in two locations in the rice fields of Valencia, Spain, in two consecutive crop seasons. The largest proportion of photodependent N(2) fixation was associated with the macrophyte Chara vulgaris in both years and at both locations. The nitrogen fixation rate associated with Chara always represented more than 45% of the global nitrogenase activity measured in the rice field. The estimated average N(2) fixation rate associated with Chara was 27.53 kg of N ha(-1) crop(-1). The mean estimated N(2) fixation rates for the other parts of the system for all sampling periods were as follows: soil, 4.07 kg of N ha(-1) crop(-1); submerged parts of rice plants, 3.93 kg of N ha(-1) crop(-1); and roots, 0.28 kg of N ha(-1) crop(-1). Micrographic studies revealed the presence of epiphytic cyanobacteria on the surface of Chara. Three-dimensional reconstructions by confocal scanning laser microscopy revealed no cyanobacterial cells inside the Chara structures. Quantification of epiphytic cyanobacteria by image analysis revealed that cyanobacteria were more abundant in nodes than in internodes (on average, cyanobacteria covered 8.4% +/- 4.4% and 6.2% +/- 5.0% of the surface area in the nodes and internodes, respectively). Epiphytic cyanobacteria were also quantified by using a fluorometer. This made it possible to discriminate which algal groups were the source of chlorophyll a. Chlorophyll a measurements confirmed that cyanobacteria were more abundant in nodes than in internodes (on average, the chlorophyll a concentrations were 17.2 +/- 28.0 and 4.0 +/- 3.8 microg mg [dry weight] of Chara(-1) in the nodes and internodes, respectively). These results indicate that this macrophyte, which is usually considered a weed in the context of rice cultivation, may help maintain soil N fertility in the rice field ecosystem.
15345450	Oxolinic acid (OA), a quinolone, inhibits the activity of DNA gyrase composed of GyrA and GyrB and shows antibacterial activity against Burkholderia glumae. Since B. glumae causes bacterial seedling rot and grain rot of rice, both of which are devastating diseases, the emergence of OA-resistant bacteria has important implications on rice cultivation in Japan. Based on the MIC of OA, 35 B. glumae field isolates isolated from rice seedlings grown from OA-treated seeds in Japan were divided into sensitive isolates (OSs; 0.5 microg/ml), moderately resistant isolates (MRs; 50 microg/ml), and highly resistant isolates (HRs; > or =100 microg/ml). Recombination with gyrA of an OS, Pg-10, led MRs and HRs to become OA susceptible, suggesting that gyrA mutations are involved in the OA resistance of field isolates. The amino acid at position 83 in the GyrA of all OSs was Ser, but in all MRs and HRs it was Arg and Ile, respectively. Ser83Arg and Ser83Ile substitutions in the GyrA of an OS, Pg-10, resulted in moderate and high OA resistance, respectively. Moreover, Arg83Ser and Ile83Ser substitutions in the GyrA of MRs and HRs, respectively, resulted in susceptibility to OA. These results suggest that Ser83Arg and Ser83Ile substitutions in GyrA are commonly responsible for resistance to OA in B. glumae field isolates.
15346981	Abscisic acid (ABA) was critical in plant seed development and response to environmental factors such as stress situations. To study the possible ABA related signaling transduction pathways, we tried to isolate the ABA-regulated genes through fluorescent differential display PCR (FDD-PCR) technology using rice seedling as materials (treated with ABA for 2, 4, 8 and 12h). In the 17 fragments isolated, 14 and 3 clones were up-and down-regulated respectively. Sequence analyses revealed that the encoded proteins were involved in photosynthesis (7 fragments), signal transduction (1 fragments), transcription (2 fragments), metabolism and resistance (6 fragments), and unknown protein (1 fragments). 3 clones, encoding putative alpha/beta hydrolase fold, putative vacuolar H+ -ATPase B subunit, putative tyrosine phosphatase, were confirmed to be regulated under ABA treatment by RT-PCR and northern blot analysis. FDD-PCR and possible functional mechanisms of ABA were discussed.
15346989	A rice brittle culm mutant bcm581-1 which derived from the Ds transposone transformation population was found, but the mutant was identified that it was not to be induced by Ds transposone insertion through PCR. The examination of the vascular bundle and cortical fibre cells in culm under the light and electron microscope showed that, the number of cortical vascular bundle of mutant was much more, the hollow among the cortical vascular bundle was deeper, and the cell walls of cortical fibre cells were thinner than the normal. The test of culm mechanics intensity showed that the load, elongation, strain, and stress of bcm581-1 were 5-9 times lower than normal. The moisture content and the wide fibre content of culm were test, the former was 3.5% higher, but the latter was 8.12% lower than normal. The analysis of genetic segregation in F2 and F1B1 population indicated that the brittle culm mutant was controlled by one recessive gene.
15346990	A female-sterile rice FS-1, derived from the progeny of a backcross of F1 of Fujisaka 5 (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica, FJ) and Tjina (Oryza sativa subsp. indica) with FJ were used for histological study of megagametophytic abortion. FS-1 has a very low spikelet fertility (about 3%) and was regarded to have no true embryo sac. Paraffin sectioning was adopted to study the megagametophytic development of FS-1 compared with its maternal parent FJ. The materials were cultivated in field condition in Tsukuba, Japan and sampled at the middle stage of the panicle development. The results obtained were as follows: (1) FJ showed a normal megagametophytic development and resulted into a mature megagamete while most of the embryo sac of FS-1 underwent megaspore abortion. The remains of the embryo sac and the degenerated surrounding cells filled up the space where the normal embryo sac was expected to exist. (2) Abortion took place when the functional megaspore was being formed. Both the three nonfunctional megaspores near the micropyle and the functional megaspore farthest from the micropylar end were degenerated. No two-nucleus, four-nucleus and eight-nucleus embryo sac were found in the present study. It is concluded tentatively that the megagametophytic abortion of FS-1 occurred when the functional megaspore was being formed.
1534703	By sequencing cDNA clones, we have concluded that three distinct sucrose genes are expressed in rice (Oryza sativa cv. Tainong 67). When the amino acid sequences deduced from these cDNAs as well as those of known sucrose synthase are compared, the highest divergence is found in the C-termini. The most suitable DNA sequences for use as specific for the mRNA derived from these genes have been suggested.
15347787	A combined bioinformatic and experimental approach is being used to uncover the functions of a novel family of cation/H(+) exchanger (CHX) genes in plants using Arabidopsis as a model. The predicted protein (85-95 kD) of 28 AtCHX genes after revision consists of an amino-terminal domain with 10 to 12 transmembrane spans (approximately 440 residues) and a hydrophilic domain of approximately 360 residues at the carboxyl end, which is proposed to have regulatory roles. The hydrophobic, but not the hydrophilic, domain of plant CHX is remarkably similar to monovalent cation/proton antiporter-2 (CPA2) proteins, especially yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) KHA1 and Synechocystis NhaS4. Reports of characterized fungal and prokaryotic CPA2 indicate that they have various transport modes, including K(+)/H(+) (KHA1), Na(+)/H(+)-K(+) (GerN) antiport, and ligand-gated ion channel (KefC). The expression pattern of AtCHX genes was determined by reverse transcription PCR, promoter-driven beta-glucuronidase expression in transgenic plants, and Affymetrix ATH1 genome arrays. Results show that 18 genes are specifically or preferentially expressed in the male gametophyte, and six genes are highly expressed in sporophytic tissues. Microarray data revealed that several AtCHX genes were developmentally regulated during microgametogenesis. An exciting idea is that CHX proteins allow osmotic adjustment and K(+) homeostasis as mature pollen desiccates and then rehydrates at germination. The multiplicity of CHX-like genes is conserved in higher plants but is not found in animals. Only 17 genes, OsCHX01 to OsCHX17, were identified in rice (Oryza sativa) subsp. japonica, suggesting diversification of CHX in Arabidopsis. These results reveal a novel CHX gene family in flowering plants with potential functions in pollen development, germination, and tube growth.
15350686	Dithiocarbamates are a non-systemic group of pesticides widely used to protect crops from fungal diseases. The current methodology used by monitoring laboratories to determine dithiocarbamates in food involves the analysis of CS(2) generated after hydrolysis of the compound present in the sample. This method does not identify the origin of the CS(2) detected, which may or may not be related to the presence of pesticides leading to a potential overestimation of the dietary dithiocarbamate intake. In this paper, 520 food samples (papaya, banana, apple, strawberry, orange, potato, tomato, rice and dry beans) collected in the local market of the Federal District, Brazil, were analyzed for dithiocarbamate content. Detectable levels (> or =10.10 mg/kg CS(2)) were found in 60.8% of the samples, with the highest levels (up to 3.8 mg/kg) found in strawberry, papaya and banana. No residues were found in rice (polished) and only one dry bean sample had detectable levels of the fungicides. Detectable residues were found in the pulp of banana, papaya (including the seeds) and orange (50-62% of the analyzed samples). An exposure assessment, based on dithiocarbamate levels detected in the food crops analyzed in this study, confirms that the intake of dithiocarbamates through food consumption in the country does not represent a health risk to consumers, i.e., the estimated daily intake is less than the acceptable daily intake. Furthermore, the implementation of more selective methodologies to individually analyze these compounds in food monitoring programs in Brazil is not necessary.
15351447	The effects of physical characteristics of foods on the coordination of extrinsic tongue muscle activities during natural mastication were evaluated. Electromyograms of tongue-retractor (styloglossus, SG) and tongue-protractor (genioglossus, GG) muscles as well as the jaw-movement trajectories were recorded during raw rice and chow pellet chewing in the freely moving rabbit. Each masticatory cycle included a jaw closing (Cl) phase consisting of a fast-closing (FC) and a slow-closing (SC) phase, and a jaw opening (Op) phase. The duration of the Cl and SC phases was found to be much larger while the duration of the FC phase was much smaller during rice chewing than pellet chewing. The jaw movements during rice chewing had smaller amplitudes of the gape and lateral excursion of the jaw as compared with those during pellet chewing. The SG muscle had a double-peaked burst activity in each masticatory cycle with one peak during the Op phase (the SG1 burst) and the other during the Cl phase (the SG2 burst). They were significantly larger during pellet chewing as compared with rice chewing, but the duration of the SG2 burst was significantly longer during rice chewing than pellet chewing. The offset of the SG2 burst was delayed during rice chewing as compared with that during pellet chewing. There was little difference in the activity pattern of the GG burst between the foods. Our present results suggest that the SG muscle activity could be modified by the sensory feedback possibly to adapt to environmental demands during chewing.
15352871	We performed a structure-function analysis of the plasma membrane-localized plant-specific barley (Hordeum vulgare) MLO (powdery-mildew-resistance gene o) protein. Invariant cysteine and proline residues, located either in extracellular loops or transmembrane domains that have been conserved in MLO proteins for more than 400 million years, were found to be essential for MLO functionality and/or stability. Similarly to many metazoan G-protein-coupled receptors known to function as homo- and hetero-oligomers, FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) analysis revealed evidence for in planta MLO dimerization/oligomerization. Domain-swap experiments with closely related wheat and rice as well as diverged Arabidopsis MLO isoforms demonstrated that the identity of the C-terminal cytoplasmic tail contributes to MLO activity. Likewise, analysis of a progressive deletion series revealed that integrity of the C-terminus determines both MLO accumulation and functionality. A series of domain swaps of cytoplasmic loops with the wheat (Triticum aestivum) orthologue, TaMLO-B1, provided strong evidence for co-operative loop-loop interplay either within the protein or between MLO molecules. Our data indicate extensive intramolecular co-evolution of cytoplasmic domains in the evolutionary history of the MLO protein family.
15354353	The eukaryotic initiation factor 1A(eIF1A) is essential for transferring of the initiator Met-tRNA to 40S ribosomal subunits to form the 40S pre-initiation complex. In present study, we describe the cloning and characterization of two eIF1A genes from rice, which were designated as Oryza sativa eukaryotic initiation factor 1A genes OseIF1A-1, OseIF1A-2, respectively. Both rice elF1As shared high identities in amino acids with eIF1A proteins from other eukaryotes. The mRNA expression analysis revealed that OseIF1A-2 mRNA was much more accumulated than OseIF1A-1 in all tissues but each gene is expressed in root, stem, leaf and flowering spike in high and nearly equal level, and in immature spike in lower level. These results, together with their different location in unrooted phylogenetic tree inferred from amino acid sequences of all known eIF1As, suggested that there are two types of eIF1A genes with different function or different regulation in rice.
15354789	The present study was carried out to develop papads from wheat and legume blends and to analyze them for organoleptic acceptability, nutritional quality, and keeping quality. Papad is a dehydrated product prepared from dhals or rice. A firm but pliable dough is made from the flours of dhals or rice with addition of suitable seasoning. It is shaped into balls, rolled out thin, dried and toasted over open fire so as to give a light, crisp product. Mung flour papads were kept as control and wheat flour, chickpea flour, and pea flour were used to supplement mung flour papads. Three different proportions (10, 20, 30%) of each flour were used to supplement Mung flour. Papads with wheat flour (10%), chickpea flour (20%), and pea flour (10%) level of supplementation were found to be most acceptable and these papads were subjected to nutritional evaluation. Protein content significantly increased on supplementation with legume flours at all levels. Fat content was significantly higher in chickpea flour supplemented papads. Ash content varied significantly from 10.17 to 10.78% in papads. Total carbohydrates decreased significantly on supplementation with chickpea flour. Copper content increased significantly on supplementation. A significant decrease in phytic acid and trypsin inhibitor of supplemented papads was found. In vitro protein digestibility significantly increased on supplementation but a significant decrease in in vitro starch digestibility was found in supplemented papads. Storage studies showed that chickpea flour and pea flour supplemented papads can be stored safely for 60 days and wheat flour supplemented papads for 30 days both at room and refrigeration temperatures.
15356324	The rice virescent-2 mutant (v(2)) is temperature conditional and develops chlorotic, chloroplast-deficient leaves at the restrictive temperature. In the v(2) mutant, plastid-encoded proteins involved in photosynthesis and plastid transcriptional regulation were not detectable at any time during chloroplast differentiation. However, the plastid transcripts for these two classes of proteins behaved differently in the mutant, with those for the plastid transcription/translation apparatus accumulating to wild-type levels and those for photosynthetic apparatus being suppressed. Polysome analysis showed that translation of the plastid transcripts encoding the plastid transcription/translation apparatus was blocked at an early stage of chloroplast differentiation. Accumulation of transcripts of nuclear-encoded photosynthetic genes, such as cab and rbcS, was strongly suppressed in the mutant at later stages of chloroplast differentiation, whereas transcripts of genes for the plastid transcription apparatus, such as OsRpoTp and OsSIG2A, accumulated to abnormally high levels at these stages. These results suggest that activation of the plastid translation machinery at an early stage of chloroplast differentiation is important for triggering the transmission of information about plastid developmental state to the nucleus, which in turn is required for the induction of nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins at later stages of chloroplast differentiation.
15356327	Some plants have the ability to maintain similar respiratory rates (measured at the growth temperature) when grown at different temperatures. This phenomenon is referred to as respiratory homeostasis. Using wheat and rice cultivars with different degrees of respiratory homeostasis (H), we previously demonstrated that high-H cultivars maintained shoot and root growth at low temperature [Kurimoto et al. (2004) Plant Cell Environ., 27: 853]. Here, we assess the relationship between respiratory homeostasis and the efficiency of respiratory ATP production, by measuring the levels of alternative oxidase (AOX) and uncoupling protein (UCP), which have the potential to decrease respiratory ATP production per unit of oxygen consumed. We also measured SHAM- and CN-resistant respiration of intact roots, and the capacity of the cytochrome pathway (CP) and AOX in isolated mitochondria. Irrespective of H, SHAM-resistant respiration of intact roots and CP capacity of isolated root mitochondria were larger when plants were grown at low temperature, and the maximal activity and relative amounts of cytochrome c oxidase showed a similar trend. In contrast, CN-resistant respiration of intact roots and relative amounts of AOX protein in mitochondria isolated from those roots, were lower in high-H plants grown at low temperature. In the roots of low-H cultivars, relative amounts of AOX protein were higher at low growth temperature. Relative amounts of UCP protein showed similar trends to AOX. We conclude that maintenance of growth rate in high-H plants grown at low temperature is associated with both respiratory homeostasis and a high efficiency of respiratory ATP production.
15356330	The transcription factors DREB1s/CBFs specifically interact with the DRE/CRT cis-acting element (core motif: G/ACCGAC) and control the expression of many stress-inducible genes in Arabidopsis. We isolated a cDNA for a DREB1/CBF homolog, ZmDREB1A in maize using a yeast one-hybrid system. The ZmDREB1A proteins specifically bound to DRE and the highly conserved valine at the 14th residue in the ERF/AP2 DNA binding domain was a key to determining the specific interaction between this protein and the DRE sequence. Expression of ZmDREB1A was induced by cold stress and slightly increased by high-salinity stress. This gene was also transiently expressed by mechanical attack. ZmDREB1A activated the transcription of the GUS reporter gene driven by DRE in rice protoplasts. Overexpression of ZmDREB1A in transgenic Arabidopsis induced overexpression of target stress-inducible genes of Arabidopsis DREB1A resulting in plants with higher tolerance to drought and freezing stresses. This indicated that ZmDREB1A has functional similarity to DREB1s/CBFs in Arabidopsis. The structure of the ERF/AP2 domain of ZmDREB1A in maize is closely related to DREB1-type ERF/AP2 domains in the monocots as compared with that in the dicots. ZmDREB1A is suggested to be potentially useful for producing transgenic plants that is tolerant to drought, high-salinity and/or cold stresses.
15356337	Rice SPK is a calmodulin-like domain protein kinase specific to immature seeds and promotes the degradation of sucrose. Therefore, antisense SPK transformants showed a defective production of storage starch, but accumulated sucrose in watery seeds. Despite a reduced sink strength, no difference was found in the sucrose concentration in phloem sap of the transformants and wild-type plants, which increased after floral organ induction to levels greater than 500 mM. However, sucrose was detected at relatively lower levels in the watery seed sap. These results suggest that sucrose content in the phloem is regulated independently from the demand for carbon sources in the sink organs.
15356384	Isoflavonoids are a group of secondary metabolites common to leguminous plants that play roles in nodulation and defense responses. Isoflavone synthase (IFS) catalyzes the key entry point step of isoflavone biosynthesis from the general phenylpropanoid pathway. We have cloned the 5' upstream regions of the genes encoding the two isoflavone synthase isoforms from soybean. We characterized the tissue-specific expression patterns of IFS1 and IFS2 genes of soybean by quantitative RT-PCR. Isoflavone synthase transcripts were detected primarily in the roots and seeds. In transgenic soybean plants in which the IFS1 promoter drove expression of the bacterial uidA (GUS) gene, the expression was localized to the root epidermis and root hairs. We detected differential tissue-specific expression of IFS1:GUS in response to nodulation and defense signals. Bradyrhizobium japonicum, a diazotropic symbiont of soybean, induced the expression of IFS1:GUS in root hairs and xylem poles in the young differentiation zone of the root. This observation suggests novel roles for isoflavonoids in nodulation. The defense related hormone salicylic acid induced the expression of IFS1:GUS in all cell types of the root. We also noticed corresponding alterations in the transcript levels of IFS1 and IFS2 in response to B. japonicum or salicylic acid as identified by quantitative RT-PCR. Using hairy root transformed soybean composite plants, we have identified regions of the IFS1 and IFS2 promoters mediating response to B. japonicum. We have also shown conserved root-specific expression of IFS1 in rice and Arabidopsis. The expression pattern of IFS1 in soybean is consistent with the physiological roles of isoflavonoids as defense compounds against pathogens and signal molecules to symbiotic bacteria in soybean.
15356386	A predominantly plant-based family of genes encoding RNA binding proteins is defined by the presence of a highly conserved RNA binding motif first described in the mei2 gene of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. In silico analyses reveal nine mei2 -like genes in Arabidopsis thaliana and six in Oryza sativa. These predicted genes group into four distinct clades, based on overall sequence similarity and subfamily-specific sequence elements. In situ analysis show that Arabidopsis genes from one of these clades, TEL1 and TEL2, are specifically expressed in central zone of the shoot apical meristem and the quiescent center of the root apical meristem, suggesting that they may somehow function to maintain indeterminacy in these tissues. By contrast, members of two sister clades, AML1 through AML5, are expressed more broadly, a trend that was confirmed by Q-PCR analysis. mei2 -like transcripts with similar sequences showed similar expression patterns, suggesting functional redundancy within the four clades. Phenotypic analyses of lines that contain T-DNA insertions to individual mei2 -like genes reveal no obvious phenotypes, further suggesting redundant activities for these gene products.
15356393	The T-DNA gene-trap system has been efficiently used to elucidate gene functions in plants. We report here a functional analysis of a cysteine protease gene, OsCP1, isolated from a pool of T-DNA insertional rice. GUS assay with the T-DNA tagged line indicated that the OsCP1 promoter was highly active in the rice anther. Sequence analysis revealed that the deduced amino acid sequence of OsCP1 was homologous to those of papain family cysteine proteases containing the highly conserved interspersed amino acid motif, ERFNIN. This result suggested that the gene encodes a cysteine protease in rice. We also identified a suppressed mutant from T2 progeny of the T-DNA tagged line. The mutant showed a significant defect in pollen development. Taken together, the results demonstrated that OsCP1 is a cysteine protease gene that might play an important role in pollen development.
15357019	Manganese lipoxygenase (Mn-LO) oxygenates linoleic acid (LA) to a mixture of the hydroperoxides--11 (S)-hydroperoxy-9Z,12Z-octadecadienoic acid [11(S)-HPODE] and 13(R)-hydroperoxy-9Z,11 E-octadecadienoic acid [13(R)-HPODE]-- and also catalyzes the conversion of 11 (S)-HPODE to 13(R)-HPODE via oxygen-centered (LOO-) and carbon-centered (L.) radicals [Hamberg, M., Su, C., and Oliw, E. (1998) Manganese Lipoxygenase. Discovery of a Bis-allylic Hydroperoxide as Product and Intermediate in a Lipoxygenase Reaction, J. Biol. Chem. 273, 13080-13088]. The aims of the present work were to investigate whether 11-HPODE can also be produced by iron-dependent lipoxygenases and to determine the enzymatic transformations of stereoisomers of 11-HPODE by lipoxygenases. Rice leaf pathogen-inducible lipoxygenase, but not soybean lipoxygenase-1 (sLO-1), generated a low level of 11-HPODE (0.4%) besides its main hydroperoxide, 13(S)-HPODE, on incubation with LA. Steric analysis revealed that 11-HPODE was enriched with respect to the R enantiomer [74% 11(R)]. In agreement with previous results, 11 (S)-HPODE incubated with Mn-LO provided 13(R)-HPODE, and the same conversion also took place with the methyl ester of 11(S)-HPODE. 11(R,S)-HPODE was metabolized biphasically in the presence of Mn-LO, i.e., by a rapid phase during which the 11(S)-enantiomer was converted into 13(R)-HPODE and a slow phase during which the 11(R)-enantiomer was converted into 9(R)-HPODE. sLO-1 catalyzed a slow conversion of 11 (S)-HPODE into a mixture of 13(R)-HPODE (75%), 9(S)-HPODE (10%), and 13(S)-HPODE (10%), whereas 11(R,S)-HPODE produced a mixture of nearly racemic 13-HPODE (approximately 70%) and 9-HPODE (approximately 30%). The results showed that 11HPODE can also be produced by an iron-dependent LO and suggested that the previously established mechanism of isomerization of 11(S)-HPODE involving suprafacial migration of O2 is valid also for the isomerizations of 11(R)-HPODE by Mn-LO and of 11(S)-HPODE by sLO-1.
15358270	In spite of the large yield losses that weeds inflict on crops, we know little about the genomics of economically important weed species. Comparative genomics between plant model species and weeds, map-based approaches, genomic sequencing and functional genomics can play vital roles in understanding and dissecting weedy traits of agronomically important weed species that damage crops. Weed genomics research should increase our understanding of the evolution of herbicide resistance and of the basic genetics underlying traits that make weeds a successful group of plants. Here, we propose specific weed candidates as genomic models, including economically important plants that have evolved herbicide resistance on several occasions and weeds with good comparative genomic qualities that can be anchored to the genomics of Arabidopsis and Oryza sativa.
15358351	To clarify the function of the rice mitochondrial ATP synthase 6 kDa subunit (RMtATP6), a method of producing large quantities of this protein is needed. Here, we describe an Escherichia coli expression system for the rapid and economic expression of RMtATP6. The RMtATP6 gene (GenBank Accession No.) was cloned into the pGEX-6p-3 vector to allow expression of RMtATP6 as a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein. The RMtATP6-GST fusion protein was purified by affinity chromatography using a glutathione-Sepharose 4B column. A Western blot analysis using anti-GST antibody showed that the fusion protein was not degraded. After enzymatic cleavage of the GST tail, the RMtATP6 protein showed a molecular weight of around 6 kDa. The predicted pI of this protein is 10.01. After improving the conditions of expression and the purification procedures, the final yield of the entire expression and purification process was about 4.6 mg of pure RMtATP6 protein per liter of bacterial culture.
15358508	Factors influencing the production of cereulide, the emetic toxin of Bacillus cereus in food and laboratory media were investigated, using liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry and sperm motility inhibition bioassay for detection and quantitation. Oxygen was essential for production of the emetic toxin by B. cereus. When beans, rice or tryptic soy broth were inoculated with cereulide producing strains B203, B116 (recent food isolates) or the strain F-4810/72, high amounts (2 to 7 microg ml(-1) or g(-1) wet wt) of cereulide accumulated during 4-day storage at room temperature. In parallel cultures and foods, stored under nitrogen atmosphere (> 99.5% N2), less than 0.05 microg of cereulide ml(-1) or g(-1) wet wt accumulated. The outcome of the bioassay matched that of the chemical assay, with no indication of interference by substances in the rice or beans. Boiling for 20 to 30 min did not inactivate cereulide or cereulide producing strains in rice or the beans. Adding l-leucine and l-valine (0.3 g l(-1)) stimulated cereulide production 10- to 20-fold in R2A and in rice water agar. When the B. cereus strains were grown on agar media under permissive conditions (air, room temperature), cereulide was produced overnight with little or no increase when the incubation was extended to 4 days. In broth culture, the production of cereulide started later than 16-24 h. Anoxic storage prevented cereulide production also when the amino acids had been supplied. Packaging with modified atmosphere low in oxygen may thus be used to reduce the risk of cereulide formation during storage of food.
15358556	RecQ helicase is a key component in the RecF pathway of Escherichia coli for initiation of homologous recombination. Here, we demonstrate that transient expression of RecQ gene in rice embryogenic cell increases the homologous recombination efficiency as much as 4-fold. Further experiments reveal that this effect is influenced by the RecQ dosage. Stable expression of RecQ in rice dramatically increases the homologous recombination events 20- to 40-fold in leaf tissue from different transgenic lines. This is the first evidence indicating that overexpression of RecQ gene can stimulate homologous recombination in plants.
15359122	Lipases are useful enzymes that are primarily responsible for the hydrolysis of acylglycerides during lipid processing. We have cloned a lipase gene from a rice seed coat cDNA library (Oryza sativa cv. Dongjin). The cDNA was 1,445 bp in length and encoded 361 amino acid residues (GenBank accession No. AY580163). The deduced amino acid sequence had 82 and 56% identity to Oryza sativa (cv. Chuchung) and Arabidopsis thaliana lipase genes, respectively, and there was a GxSxG consensus motif near the catalytic triad at the active serine site. The deduced sequence had little homology to mammalian and microbial lipases. When the Oryza sativa lipase gene was expressed in Escherichia coli with the pET expression system, activity was found mainly in the pellet fraction. The purified product had lipolytic activity towards tributyrin and was about 40 kDa in size.
15359131	The gene encoding C-repeat/dehydration-responsive element binding factor 1 (CBF1/DREB1b) of Arabidopsis was introduced into rice (Oryza sativa L.) under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter. Its incorporation and expression in transgenic rice plants were confirmed by DNA and RNA gel-blot analyses. Cold tolerance in the transgenics was not significantly different from that of the wild-type plants, as determined by ion leakage, chlorophyll fluorescence, and survival rates. However, the cold-responsive genes lip5, lip9, and OsDhn1 were up-regulated in the transgenic plants, suggesting that the cold signal transduction pathway involving CBF1 is partially conserved in this cold-labile plant.
15359602	Human insulin-like growth factor-1 (hIGF-1) is a growth factor with clinical significance in medicine. The therapeutic potential of recombinant hIGF-1 (rthIGF-1) stems from the fact that hIGF-1 resembles insulin in many aspects of physiology. The expression of hIGF-1 in transgenic tobacco and rice plants using different expression cassettes is reported here. In the present study, two coding sequences were tested, one with the original human sequence, but partially optimized for expression in E. coli and the other with a plant-codon-optimized sequence that was expected to give a higher level of expression in plant systems. Three different hIGF-1 recombinant expression constructs were generated. All expression constructs utilized the maize ubiquitin 1 promoter with or without a signal sequence. Analyses conducted using a hIGF-1 specific ELISA kit showed all transgenic plants produced hIGF-1 and the accumulated hIGF-1 increased from the E. coli codon bias to higher levels when the hIGF-1 coding sequence was codon-optimized to match that of the maize zeamatin protein--the most transcribed gene in maize endosperm suspension cells. Further analyses that compared the functionality of the bacterial signal peptide Lam B in plants showed that this leader peptide led to lower expression levels when compared to transgenic plants that did not contain this sequence. This indicated that this expression construct was functional without removal of the bacterial signal sequence. The maize ubiquitin 1 promoter was found to be more active in rice plants than tobacco plants indicating that in this case, there was a class preference that was biased towards a monocot host. Biological analyses conducted using protein extracts from transgenic plants showed that the rthIGF-1 was effective in stimulating the in vitro growth and proliferation of human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. This indicated that the plant-produced rthIGF-1 was stable and biologically active. As some plants have been reported to express an endogenous insulin-like protein, we also looked for any effect of the human growth factor in transgenic plants, but no developmental or morphological differences with wild type tobacco or rice plants were detected. Since insulin and hIGF-1 share some overlapping roles, hIGF-1 may become a substitute therapeutic agent in subjects with certain defects in their insulin receptor signaling. Hence, if the full beneficial potential of rthIGF-1 is achieved, it is expected that in the future the demand will likely increase significantly.
15359604	A pilot binary vector was constructed to assess the potential of the 2 T-DNA system for generating selectable marker-free progeny plants in three elite rice cultivars (ZhongZuo321, Ariete and Khao Dawk Mali 105) known to exhibit contrasting amenabilities to transformation. The first T-DNA of the vector, delimited by Agrobacterium tumefaciens borders, contains the hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) selectable gene and the green fluorescent protein (gfp) reporter gene while the second T-DNA, delimited by Agrobacterium rhizogenes borders, bears the phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (bar) gene, featuring the gene of interest. 82-90% of the hygromycin-resistant primary transformants exhibited tolerance to ammonium glufosinate mediated by the bar gene suggesting very high co-transformation frequency in the three cultivars. All of the regenerated plants were analyzed by Southern blot which confirmed co-integration of the T-DNAs at frequencies consistent with those of co-expression and allowed determination of copy number for each gene as well as detection of two different vector backbone fragments extending between the two T-DNAs. Hygromycin susceptible, ammonium glufosinate tolerant phenotypes represented 14.4, 17.4 and 14.3% of the plants in T1 progenies of ZZ321, Ariete and KDML105 primary transformants, respectively. We developed a statistical model for deducing from the observed copy number of each T-DNA in T0 plants and phenotypic segregations in T1 progenies the most likely constitution and linkage of the T-DNA integration locus. Statistical analysis identified in 40 out of 42 lines a most likely linkage configuration theoretically allowing genetic separation of the two T-DNA types and out segregation of the T-DNA bearing the bar gene. Overall, though improvements of the technology would be beneficial, the 2 T-DNA system appeared to be a useful approach to generate selectable marker-free rice plants with a consistent frequency among cultivars.
15361149	The study of the metabolomics of primary metabolites using conventional chemical analyses requires a high-throughput method. Chemical derivatizations are a prerequisite for gas-chromatographic separation, and a large sample quantity is needed for liquid-chromatographic separation and nuclear magnetic resonance detection systems. Recently, we have developed a capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry (CE-MS) technology that can simultaneously quantify a large number of primary metabolites, using only a small quantity of samples, and without any chemical derivatizations. Parallel use of a capillary electrophoresis-diode array detector (CE-DAD) system further enables almost all water-soluble intracellular metabolites to be analyzed. We demonstrate, with rice leaves, a simple and rapid method of sample preparation for CE analysis; using this method, we have successfully measured the levels of 88 main metabolites involved in glycolysis, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, the pentose phosphate pathway, photorespiration, and amino acid biosynthesis.
15362190	Novel bacterial blight (BB) resistance gene(s) for rice was (were) introduced into a cultivated japonica rice variety Oryza sativa (cv. 8411), via somatic hybridization using the wild rice Oryza meyeriana as the donor of the resistance gene(s). Twenty-nine progenies of somatically hybridized plants were obtained. Seven somatically hybridized plants and their parents were used for AFLP (amplified fragment length polymorphism) analysis using 8 primer pairs. Results confirmed that these plants were somatic hybrids containing the characteristic bands of both parents. The morphology of the regenerated rice showed characters of both O. sativa and O. meyeriana. Two somatic hybrids showed highest BB resistance and the other 8 plants showed moderate resistance. The new germplasms with highest resistance have been used in the rice breeding program for the improvement of bacterial blight resistance.
15362626	This paper studied the response of soil urease, phosphatase, arylsulphatase and dehydrogenase to 200 micromol x mol(-1) CO2 elevation under rice-wheat rotation. The results showed that under CO2 elevation, the urease activity in 0-10 cm soil layer was decreased at the early growth stages of wheat but increased at its booting stage; the activity increased at the early growth stages of rice but decreased at its ripening stage. Phosphatase activity was increased during the whole growth period of wheat; the activity increased at the tillering stage of rice but decreased at its later growth stages. Arylsulphatase activity was decreased at the over-wintering and booting stages of wheat but increased at its tillering and ripening stages. Dehydrogenase activity was decreased at the early growth stages of wheat and rice, but increased at their late growth stages.
15362627	This paper studied the effect of 200 micromol x mol(-1) CO2 elevation on soil saccharidase activities and soil nutrient contents under rice-wheat rotation. The results showed that under both wheat and rice planting, CO2 elevation increased soil invertase activity. The elevated CO2 significantly increased soil xylanase activity at the jointing, heading and ripening stages of wheat and at the heading and ripening stages of rice, and slightly decreased soil cellulase activity. Correlation analysis showed that there was a significantly linear positive relationship between soil alkali-hydrolyzed nitrogen and soil invertase activity.
15364529	The main greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. Methane is the most important because the warming effect of methane is 21 times greater than that of carbon dioxide. Methane emitted from rice paddy fields is a major source of atmospheric methane. In this work, a methane emission model (MEM), which integrates climate change, plant growth and degradation of soil organic matter, was applied to estimate the emission of methane from rice paddy fields in Taiwan. The estimated results indicate that much methane is emitted during the effective tillering and booting stages in the first crop season and during the transplanting stage in the second crop season in a year. Sensitivity analysis reveals that the temperature is the most important parameter that governs the methane emission rate. The order of the strengths of the effects of the other parameters is soil pH, soil water depth (SWD) and soil organic matter content. The masses of methane emitted from rice paddy fields of Taiwan in the first and second crop seasons are 28,507 and 350,231 tons, respectively. The amount of methane emitted during the second crop season is 12.5 times higher than that emitted in the first crop season. With a 12% reduction in planted area during the second crop season, methane emission could be reduced by 21%. In addition, removal of rice straw left from the first crop season and increasing the depth of flooding to 25 cm are also strategies that could help reduce annual emission by up to 18%.
15364599	Dietary minerals Zn, Fe, and Ca are antagonistic to Cd absorption. We showed earlier that rats fed a rice-based diet with a marginal content of these nutrients absorbed more Cd than rats fed adequate Zn-Fe-Ca (Environ. Sci. Technol., 36 (2002) 2684-2692). The present experiment was designed to determine the effects of marginal dietary Zn, Fe, and Ca on the uptake and turnover of Cd in the gastrointestinal tract. Two groups of weanling female rats (six per treatment) were fed a diet containing 40% cooked, dried rice containing 0.6 mg Cd/kg. The diet of one group contained adequate Zn (35 mg/kg), Fe (30 mg/kg), and Ca (5000 mg/kg), while that of the other group contained marginal Zn (6 mg/kg), Fe (9 mg/kg), and Ca (2500 mg/kg). Rats were fed for 5 weeks and then orally dosed with 1g of diet containing rice extrinsically labeled with 109Cd. From 0.25 to 64 days after dosing, 109Cd and total Cd concentrations were determined in intestinal segments. Shortly after dosing, 109Cd, as a percentage of the dose, was about 4 times higher in the duodenum of marginally fed rats than in that of control rats (10% vs 40%, respectively). Sixty-four days after dosing, 109Cd was 10 times higher in marginally fed rats than in controls; however, of the amount at day 1, <0.1% remained at day 64. After 5 weeks, the concentration of elemental Cd in the duodenum of the marginally fed rats was 8 times higher than that of control rats (24 microg/g dry wt. vs 2.9 microg/g dry wt., respectively). Cd concentrations in liver and kidney were 5 times higher in the marginally fed rats than those in controls (liver, 0.81 microg/g dry wt. vs 0.14 microg/g dry wt.; kidney, 4.7 microg/g dry wt. vs 0.92 microg/g dry wt., respectively). These data suggest that marginal intakes of Zn, Fe, and Ca cause the accumulation of Cd in the duodenum, which results in a greater rate of Cd absorption and a greater accumulation in the internal organs. Results are discussed in relation to mineral nutrient status and risk assessment of Cd in natural food sources.
15365628	A large panicle with numerous florets is essential for improving rice (Oryza sativa L.) yield. Rice panicle size is determined by such underlying morphogenetic processes as: (1) primary branch formation on the panicle axis; (2) floret formation on the primary branches (mainly determined by the secondary branch formation); and (3) pre-flowering abortion of florets in the panicle. We examined QTLs for these processes to understand how they are integrated into panicle size. We developed 106 backcross-inbred lines (BC1F4) from a cross between 'Akihikari' (a temperate japonica) and 'IRAT109' (a tropical japonica) and constructed a genetic map. One QTL detected on chromosome 2, with a large effect (R=0.30) on the number of florets per panicle, affected both primary branch formation on the panicle axis and floret formation on the primary branches. In addition, three QTLs that affect only one of these two processes were identified on chromosomes 4, 9, and 11, each having a subsidiary effect on the number of florets per panicle (R2=0.04-0.07). QTLs for pre-flowering floret abortion were detected at three different regions of the genome (chromosomes 1, 10, and 11). This is the first report on QTLs for pre-flowering floret abortion in grasses. The absence of a co-location between QTLs suggests that floret formation and abortion are not directly linked causally. These results demonstrate that studying the partitioning of panicle size into these underlying morphogenetic components would be helpful in understanding the complicated genetic control of panicle size.
1536568	A procedure for the preparation of a cell-free enzyme solution from rice leaves capable of catalyzing the biosynthesis of diterpene hydrocarbons from geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate or copalyl pyrophosphate as added substrates has been developed. The rates of synthesis of a group of "pimaradiene-like" diterpene hydrocarbons are about 75-fold higher with geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate as substrate and about 8-fold higher with copalyl pyrophosphate as substrate in comparison with extracts from untreated control leaves. The maximum rate of diterpene hydrocarbon biosynthesis is seen in extracts prepared at 40 h after uv irradiation. Five diterpene hydrocarbons (compounds A-E) were present in the hydrocarbon fraction biosynthesized from [3H]geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate in large-scale incubation mixtures prepared from uv-treated rice leaves. Three of these diterpenes were identified as ent-kaur-16-ene (B), ent-sandaracopimara-8(14), 15-diene (D), and 9 beta H-pimara-7,15-diene (E) from GC retention times and GC-MS spectral characteristics in comparison with those of authentic reference compounds. Compound C has spectral characteristics analogous to those of a pimaradiene, but a specific structural assignment from the data available was not possible. Similar incubations with [3H]copalyl pyrophosphate as the substrate and enzyme prepared from uv-treated rice leaves produced ent-kaurene (B), ent-sandaracopimara-8(14),15-diene (D), and compound C, but not 9 beta H-pimara-7,15-diene (E). These results are consistent with a proposed biosynthetic scheme in which 9 beta H-pimara-7,15-diene serves as a precursor of the momilactone family, and ent-sandaracopimara-8(14),15-diene serves as a precursor of the oryzalexin family of rice phytoalexins. ent-Kaurene was the only diterpene detected in incubation mixtures containing enzyme extract from untreated rice leaves and [3H]copalyl pyrophosphate as the substrate. It is suggested that kaurene biosynthesis in rice leaves is probably associated with gibberellin biosynthesis and the regulation of vegetative growth rather than stress metabolism. The diterpene cyclization enzymes in extracts of uv-treated rice leaves show only a relatively modest inhibition by the plant growth retardants AMO-1618 and Phosfon D. No evidence was obtained for the subcellular localization of these cyclization enzymes in organellar preparations; it is tentatively concluded that the enzymes are present predominantly in the extraorganellar cytoplasm of rice leaves.
15365761	This study describes the successful formation of floral organ pistil from the callus of pistil explants of Oryza sativa L. For induction of floral organs, different explants--including young embryo, lemma, palea and pistil--were used for callus induction with different combinations of N(6)-benzyladenine and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). High frequencies of callus formation from pistil and young embryo explants were achieved. Floral organs were induced after calli from pistils were transferred to medium containing both zeatin and 2,4-D. The morphological characteristics of the pistil-like organs are very similar to those formed in planta though with minor differences. Further histological study revealed that the in vitro pistil contains an ovule within its ovary. Furthermore, a pistil-specific gene, OsMADS3 used as a molecular marker for pistil identity, was expressed in the pistil-like organs as it was in pistils in the flower of the plant.
1536599	In situ aquatic and terrestrial plants including a few vegetable and crop plants growing in and around a chloralkali plant at Ganjam, India were analyzed for concentrations of root and shoot mercury. The aquatic plants found to bioconcentrate mercury to different degrees included Marsilea spp., Spirodela polyrhiza, Jussiea repens, Paspalum scrobiculatam, Pistia stratiotes, Eichhornia crassipes, Hygrophila schulli, Monochoria hastata and Bacopa monniera. Among wild terrestrial plants Chloris barbata, Cynodon dactylon, Cyperus rotundus and Croton bonplandianum were found growing on heavily contaminated soil containing mercury as high as 557 mg/kg. Analysis of mercury in root and shoot of these plants in relation to the mercury levels in soil indicated a significant correlation between soil and plant mercury with the exception of C. bonplandianum. Furthermore, the tolerance to mercury toxicity was highest with C. barbata followed by C. dactylon and C. rotundus, in that order. The rice plants analyzed from the surrounding agricultural fields did not show any significant levels of bioconcentrated mercury. Of the different vegetables grown in a contaminated kitchen garden with mercury level at 8.91 mg/kg, the two leafy vegetables, namely cabbage (Brassica oleracea) and amaranthus (Amaranthus oleraceous), were found to bioconcentrate mercury at statistically significant levels. The overall study indicates that the mercury pollution is very much localized to the specific sites in the vicinity of the chloralkali plant.
15366557	The aim of this work was to investigate the use of activated rice husk carbon prepared by thermal activation and activated alumina in the removal of Cr(VI) from aqueous solution and electroplating wastewater through column studies. The optimum solution pH was found to be 2 for activated rice husk carbon and 4 for activated alumina in the batch process. This was further applied to the aqueous solution to optimise the column bed height, diameter and flow rate of solute. These optimised conditions were applied to the electroplating wastewater. It was observed that activated rice husk is an efficient adsorbent and comparable to commercially available activated alumina. The percent Cr(VI) removal from wastewater was 73.3% with activated rice husk and 75.3% with activated alumina after 1 h continuous flow at the rate of 5 ml min(-1) from 7.5 cm bed height of adsorbent in a column having diameter 2.5 cm. A long contact time of the samples with adsorbents resulted in desorption of Cr(VI) from the adsorbent surfaces. However, the adsorption rate increased with the more available adsorbent surface sites when column bed height and diameter were greater. There was a decrease in Cr(VI) removal compared to aqueous sample due to the presence of other metal ions in the wastewater sample.
15366856	Eight rice varieties with wide diversity in apparent amylose content (AC) were selected and planted in the early season and late season of Hangzhou and in the winter season of Hainan for two consecutive years to study the genotype x environment effects on the starch properties of the grain. Analyses of variance showed that AC, cool paste viscosity, breakdown viscosity, setback viscosity, peak time, gel hardness, adhesiveness, and cohesiveness were mainly affected by genotypic variation, whereas peak viscosity and hot paste viscosity were mainly affected by environmental variation. The year x season, year x variety, seasonx variety, and year x season x variety effects were significant for most traits, indicating significant genotype x environment interactions. AC was significantly correlated with all other parameters except PV. Because the Wx gene controls the synthesis of amylose in rice, the mechanism of how the environment affects starch properties is discussed in relation to Wx expression and regulation. The implications of the results for rice breeders and starch-based food manufacturers are discussed.
15366857	Eight rice varieties with wide diversity in apparent amylose content (AC) were selected and planted in the early (HZE) and late season (HZL) in Hangzhou and in the winter season in Hainan (HN) for two consecutive years to study the genotypic and environmental effects on starch thermal and retrogradation properties of grain. Genotypic variation (all at P < 0.01) accounted for >56% of the total variation for onset (T(o)), peak (T(p)), and completion (T(c)) temperature, width at half-peak height (DeltaT(1/2)) of gelatinization, enthalpy (DeltaH(r)) of retrograded starch, percentage of retrogradation (R%), and 45.8% for enthalpy (DeltaH(g)) of gelatinization. Seasonal variation accounted for about one-fifth for T(o), T(p), and T(c) and one-third for DeltaH(g), but less for T(1/)(2), DeltaH(r), and R% of the total variation, indicating that T(o), T(p), T(c), and DeltaH(g) were highly affected by seasonal environment in addition to the genotypic variation. The T(o), T(p), T(c), and DeltaH(g) in HZL were much smaller than those in HZE and HN. Correlation analysis for the eight genotypes showed that AC was significantly correlated with DeltaH(g) (r = -0.83, P < 0.01) and R% (r = 0.734, P < 0.05). DeltaH(g) was also positively correlated with T(c) (r = 0.878, P < 0.05), but it did not have any correlation with DeltaH(r), whereas the latter was positively correlated with R% (r = 0.994, P < 0.001). The intercorrelation of T(o), T(p), T(c), and DeltaT(1/)(2) themselves was significant at P < 0.001. The correlation analysis results suggest that there are different molecular mechanisms to regulate thermal properties (T(o), T(p), T(c), and DeltaH(g)) and retrogradation properties (DeltaH(r) and R%) as affected by environmental conditions. The implications of the results for rice breeders and starch-based food processors are discussed.
1536936
15369774	Telomeric repeat amplification protocol (TRAP)--a sensitive, PCR-based assay to detect telomerase activity was quintessential to the evaluation of telomerase role in telomere maintenance, cell proliferation, tumour development, and cell immortalization. The assay, however, suffers from many limitations. The most significant are: lack of telomerase activity quantification, changes of the enzyme activity product size and/or ratio, and complex post-amplification procedures which limit the assay throughput. Here we report the development of the microarray TRAP (MTRAP) assay which combines advantages of microarray technology with a modified TRAP assay. The MTRAP was designed and optimized on rice cell suspension telomerase extract to enable telomerase specific, reliable, and linear quantification in high throughput mode, with sensitivity comparable to those of radioisotope-based TRAP assays. The MTRAP has a built-in system guaranteeing the amplification of telomerase activity products unchanged in length and/or ratio and built-in control for false negatives. Thus, our MTRAP assay provides new reliable tool for experiments requiring massive quantitation of telomerase activity.
15369989	This study investigated the associations among prevalence of patients with Itai-itai disease, and prevalence of abnormal urinary findings and cadmium (Cd) concentrations in rice in individual hamlets of the Jinzu River basin. From the 13,183 participants of the 1967 and 1968 health examinations, we selected 3,094 subjects as the target population who had resided in the current hamlet for a total of 30 years or longer and aged >/=50 years, and in the hamlet both the Cd concentration in rice and prevalence of patients with Itai-itai disease were known. When the inhabitants were divided into four groups according to the Cd concentration in rice or prevalence of abnormal urinary findings, significant relationships among three factors (Cd concentration in rice, prevalence of abnormal urinary findings and prevalence of patients with Itai-itai disease) were demonstrated clearly using the Cochran-Armitage test. Correlation coefficients among the three factors in 55 hamlets showed that the prevalence of the patients with Itai-itai disease increased according to increases in the mean Cd concentration in rice and increasing prevalence of urinary findings. This study demonstrated that Itai-itai disease is induced by exposure to environmental Cd and that renal dysfunction plays an important role in its development.
15372873
15373231	To explore the association between dietary habits and risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) mortality in Japan, univariate analyses was performed using data from the JACC Study. A cohort of 46,465 males and 64,327 females aged 40 to 79 in 19 prefectures in Japan completed the baseline survey during 1988-1990 and were followed up until the end of 1999. The hazard ratio (HR) of HCC mortality for each food item by gender, age group (40-59 and 60-79 years) and history of liver diseases was obtained by Cox proportional hazards model. Some categories, such as boiled rice, ham and sausage, chicken, fish and pickles among men without history of liver diseases and those of miso-soup, fish, carrots and squash, and potatoes among women without history of liver diseases showed a significant inverse association with HCC mortality. Frequent intake of eggs was significantly associated with increased HCC mortality in men without history of liver diseases. Potatoes and foods boiled down in soy sauce (tsukudani) showed a significant positive association, and pickles had a significant inverse association with HCC mortality in men with history of liver diseases. Frequent intake of coffee showed a significant inverse association with HCC mortality both in men and women with history of liver diseases. It is considered that further analysis using a multivariate Cox proportional hazards model including other confounding factors will be required for a more meaningful interpretation of the data.
15373403	Bacterial ghosts are nondenaturated empty cell envelopes of Gram-negative bacteria produced by E-mediated lysis. Such envelopes from the plant-adhering bacterium Pectobacterium cypripedii were tested for their ability to adhere to plant material and to be used as carriers for pesticide delivery. We show, using fluorescence-labeled P. cypripedii ghosts, that depending on the target plants 55 or 10% (rice or soya, respectively) of the applied bacterial ghosts was retained on the leaves after heavy simulated rain (84 mm). Furthermore, the bacterial ghosts could be loaded with the lipophilic triazole fungicide tebuconazole. In subsequent plant experiments in the glass house, the efficacy of the loaded bacterial ghost for resistance to rainfall and the protective and curative effects against the pathogens Erysiphe graminis, Leptosphaeria nodorum, and Pyrenophora teres on barley and wheat and against Sphaerotheca fuliginea on cucumber were tested. The bacterial ghosts were compared primarily with a commercial tebuconazole formulation, a wettable powder, as it has similar physical characteristics. The comparison revealed similar effects and showed consistently higher or comparable efficacy against the pathogens. The standard operational comparison with the most protective, cereal specific emulsion of oil in water displayed that the bacterial ghosts had equal to or lower efficacy than the emulsion. This study confirmed the potential of bacterial ghost platform technology as a new alternative carrier system for pesticides.
15373805	RNA extracted from guts of rice brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, was used to clone cDNA predicted to encode a diuretic hormone receptor (DHR). The DHR, a member of the calcitonin/secretin/corticotropin-releasing factor family of G-protein-coupled receptors, contains seven transmembrane domains and a large N-terminal extracellular domain potentially involved in hormone binding. The N-terminal domain was expressed as a recombinant protein, purified and used to raise antibodies. Anti-DHR IgG bound specifically to Malpighian tubules in immunolocalization experiments using dissected guts, and to a putative DHR polypeptide from N. lugens gut on Western blots. Anti-DHR IgG delivered orally to insects was not detected in the haemolymph, and showed no binding to gut or tubules, confirming that DHR N-terminal hormone-binding domain is not exposed to the gut lumen.
15373947	RNA editing is the process whereby an RNA sequence is modified from the sequence of the corresponding DNA template. In the mitochondria of land plants, some cytidines are converted to uridines before translation. Despite substantial study, the molecular biological mechanism by which C-to-U RNA editing proceeds remains relatively obscure, although several experimental studies have implicated a role for cis-recognition. A highly non-random distribution of nucleotides is observed in the immediate vicinity of edited sites (within 20 nucleotides 5' and 3'), but no precise consensus motif has been identified. Data for analysis were derived from the the complete mitochondrial genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica napus, and Oryza sativa; additionally, a combined data set of observations across all three genomes was generated. We selected datasets based on the 20 nucleotides 5' and the 20 nucleotides 3' of edited sites and an equivalently sized and appropriately constructed null-set of non-edited sites. We used tree-based statistical methods and random forests to generate models of C-to-U RNA editing based on the nucleotides surrounding the edited/non-edited sites and on the estimated folding energies of those regions. Tree-based statistical methods based on primary sequence data surrounding edited/non-edited sites and estimates of free energy of folding yield models with optimistic re-substitution-based estimates of approximately 0.71 accuracy, approximately 0.64 sensitivity, and approximately 0.88 specificity. Random forest analysis yielded better models and more exact performance estimates with approximately 0.74 accuracy, approximately 0.72 sensitivity, and approximately 0.81 specificity for the combined observations. Simple models do moderately well in predicting which cytidines will be edited to uridines, and provide the first quantitative predictive models for RNA edited sites in plant mitochondria. Our analysis shows that the identity of the nucleotide -1 to the edited C and the estimated free energy of folding for a 41 nt region surrounding the edited C are the most important variables that distinguish most edited from non-edited sites. However, the results suggest that primary sequence data and simple free energy of folding calculations alone are insufficient to make highly accurate predictions.
15374176	We conducted a self-administered questionnaire survey to a total of 5239 elderly persons in four areas in Japan in 1993, which inquired about past lifestyles and present social activities. Based on the survey data, we first developed social activity measures, and then examined associations of the present total social activity measure with past lifestyles and physical conditions. The lifestyles significantly associated with high social activity after 65 years of age were 'high educational attainment'; having been 'healthy', 'plump', 'physically active' and 'having had hobbies' at about 50 years of age; and having 'frequent intake of many kinds of foods' during 30-50 years of age. Intake during 30-50 years of age of Japanese-style foods (rice, soybean paste soup, bean curd, pickles), noodles, beans, plant roots and potatoes was not significantly linked with the social activity levels at old age in either males or females. The same was true for smoking and drinking habits at about 50 years of age. Our findings essentially suggest the importance of a positive attitude at middle age to maintain and promote health status and improve lifestyles in order to attain high social activity at old age.
15375618	A significant level of root elongation was induced in rice (Oryza sativa) grown under phosphorus-deficient conditions. The root elongation clearly varied among a total of 62 varieties screened under two different phosphorus levels. Two contrasting varieties, 'Gimbozu', with a low elongating response and 'Kasalath', with a high elongating response, were chosen and crossed to produce a hybrid population for QTL analyses. QTLs for the phosphorus deficiency-induced root elongation were detected by two linkage maps, i.e., one with 82 F3 families constructed by 97 simple sequence repeat (SSR) and sequence-tag site markers and another with 97 F8 lines by 790 amplified fragment length polymorphism and SSR markers. A single QTL for the elongation response was detected on chromosome 6, with a LOD score of 4.5 in both maps and explained about 20% of total phenotypic variance. In addition, this QTL itself, or a region tightly linked with it, partly explained an ability to reduce accumulation of excess iron in the shoots. The identified QTL will be useful to improve rice varieties against a complex nutritional disorder caused by phosphorus deficiency and iron toxicity.
15375619	Japanese rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars that are strictly used for the brewing of sake (Japanese rice wine) represent a unique and traditional group. These cultivars are characterized by common traits such as large grain size with low protein content and a large, central white-core structure. To understand the genetic diversity and phylogenetic characteristics of sake-brewing rice, we performed amplified fragment length polymorphism and simple sequence repeat analyses, using 95 cultivars of local and modern sake-brewing rice together with 76 cultivars of local and modern cooking rice. Our analysis of both nuclear and chloroplast genome polymorphisms showed that the genetic diversity in sake-brewing rice cultivars was much smaller than the diversity found in cooking rice cultivars. Interestingly, the genetic diversity within the modern sake-brewing cultivars was about twofold higher than the diversity within the local sake-brewing cultivars, which was in contrast to the cooking cultivars. This is most likely due to introgression of the modern cooking cultivars into the modern sake-brewing cultivars through breeding practices. Cluster analysis and chloroplast haplotype analysis suggested that the local sake-brewing cultivars originated monophyletically in the western regions of Japan. Analysis of variance tests showed that several markers were significantly associated with sake-brewing traits, particularly with the large white-core structure.
15377221	Plants harbor four families of kinases that have been implicated in Ca(2+) signaling (CDPKs, CRKs, CCaMKs, and SnRK3s). Although each family appears to respond to Ca(2+) via different mechanisms, they all utilize Ca(2+) sensors that bind Ca(2+) through multiple EF-hands. The CDPK (Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase) family is represented by the most genes, with 12 subfamilies comprised of 34 isoforms in Arabidopsis and 27 in rice. Some of the calcium-regulated kinases also show potential for regulation by lipid signals and kinase cascades. Thus, Ca(2+)-regulated kinases provide potential nodes of cross-talk for multiple signaling pathways that integrate Ca(2+) signals into all aspects of plant growth and development.
15377756	The rice (Oryza sativa) spotted leaf11 (spl11) mutant was identified from an ethyl methanesulfonate-mutagenized indica cultivar IR68 population and was previously shown to display a spontaneous cell death phenotype and enhanced resistance to rice fungal and bacterial pathogens. Here, we have isolated Spl11 via a map-based cloning strategy. The isolation of the Spl11 gene was facilitated by the identification of three additional spl11 alleles from an IR64 mutant collection. The predicted SPL11 protein contains both a U-box domain and an armadillo (ARM) repeat domain, which were demonstrated in yeast and mammalian systems to be involved in ubiquitination and protein-protein interactions, respectively. Amino acid sequence comparison indicated that the similarity between SPL11 and other plant U-box-ARM proteins is mostly restricted to the U-box and ARM repeat regions. A single base substitution was detected in spl11, which results in a premature stop codon in the SPL11 protein. Expression analysis indicated that Spl11 is induced in both incompatible and compatible rice-blast interactions. In vitro ubiquitination assay indicated that the SPL11 protein possesses E3 ubiquitin ligase activity that is dependent on an intact U-box domain, suggesting a role of the ubiquitination system in the control of plant cell death and defense.
15381225	Under growing and urbanizing demand, livestock production is rapidly evolving in South, East and South-east Asia, with both an increase of production and a shift to intensive production systems. These changes infer impacts on the environment, on public health and on rural development. Environmental impacts are mainly associated with a mismanagement of animal excreta, leading to pollution of surface water, ground water and soils by nutrients, organic matter, and heavy metals. In the framework of the Livestock Environment and Development Initiative, this research aims at assessing, on a regional scale, the impacts of livestock production on nutrient fluxes. Phosphate (P(2)O(5)) mass balances were chosen as an indicator and were calculated on the basis of spatially modelled livestock densities, estimated excretion values and crop uptake. The results show a strong West--East gradient regarding the distribution of monogastrics, with clear concentration in densely populated areas and around urban centres. P(2)O(5) overloads are estimated on 23.6% of the study area's agricultural land, mainly located in eastern China, the Ganges basin and around urban centres such as Bangkok, Ho Chi Minh City and Manila. On average, livestock manure is estimated to account for 39.4% of the agricultural P(2)O(5) supply (the remaining share being supplied by chemical fertilisers). Livestock is the dominant agricultural source of P(2)O(5) around urban centres and in livestock specialised areas (southern and north-eastern China), while chemical fertilisers are dominant in crop (rice) intensive areas.
15381434	ATP-binding cassette (ABC) proteins constitute a large superfamily found in all kingdoms of living organisms. The recent completion of two draft sequences of the rice (Oryza sativa) genome allowed us to analyze and classify its ABC proteins and to compare to those in Arabidopsis thaliana. We identified a similar number of ABC proteins in rice and Arabidopsis (121 versus 120), despite the rice genome being more than three times the size of Arabidopsis. Both Arabidopsis and rice have representative members in all seven major subfamilies of ABC ATPases (A to G) commonly found in eukaryotes. This comparative analysis allowed the detection of 29 potential orthologous sequences in Arabidopsis and rice. However, plant share with prokaryotes a specific set of ABC systems that is not detected in animals. These ABC systems might be inherited from the cyanobacterial ancestor of chloroplasts. The present work provides the first complete inventory of rice ABC proteins and an updated inventory of those proteins in Arabidopsis.
15381976	Azospirillum is used extensively in rice and other cereal crops as a biofertilizer. There is a substantial opportunity to improve the efficiency of this bacterium through the transfer of genes of agricultural importance from other organisms. Chitinases are antifungal proteins, and expression of chitinase genes in Azospirillum would help to develop strains with potential antifungal activities. So far there are no reports about transfer of plant genes into Azospirillum and their expression. The present study was aimed at expressing an antifungal gene (a rice chitinase) of plant origin in Azospirillum brasilense. A rice chitinase cDNA (RC 7) that codes for a 35 kDa protein was subcloned into a broad host range plasmid pDSK519 under the control of LacZ promoter. The plasmid was mobilized into the nitrogen-fixing bacterium, Azospirillum brasilense strain SP51eFL1, through biparental mating. The conjugation frequency was in the range of 35-40 x 10(-6). The transconjugants grew in nitrogen-free media and fixed gaseous nitrogen in vitro. However, their growth and nitrogen-fixing ability were slightly less than those of the wild-type. Expression of the protein was demonstrated through western blotting of the total cell protein, which detected a 35 kDa band that was immuno-reactive to a barley chitinase antibody. The cell lysates also hydrolyzed various chitin substrates, which resulted in release of free sugars demonstrating the chitinase activity of transconjugants. The expressed protein also had antifungal activity as demonstrated by inhibition of growth of the plant pathogenic fungus, Rhizoctonia solani.
15382502	The systemic activity of simeconazole (RS-2-(4-fluorophenyl)-1-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-3-trimethylsilylpropan-2-ol) and a number of its derivatives in plants has been investigated to establish which portion of the structure of the molecule contributes to this outstanding activity. The results revealed that the hydroxyl group of the simeconazole moiety is essential for vapour-phase activity and translocation from roots of the compound. They showed that the presence of a fluorine atom in the structure was not indispensable for vapour-phase activity or translocation from roots, although the fluorine atom contributed to these systemic movements. In addition, it was found that the fungicidal activity of simeconazole against Rhizoctonia solani Kühn and Blumeria graminis DC fsp hordei Marchal is potentiated by the fluorine atom, since the activity of a compound which lacked fluorine in the 4-position of the phenyl ring was inferior to that of simeconazole. A compound in which the silicon atom of simeconazole was replaced by a carbon atom showed lower antifungal activity than simeconazole, while phytotoxicity was caused in rice plants by soil drench of the compound. Therefore, the silicon atom of simeconazole may contribute to its selectivity between fungi and plants.
15382506	A newly synthesized experimental compound, EK-2612 is one of the class of cyclohexane-1,3-diones which are commonly known to be grasskillers. A greenhouse study was conducted to evaluate the herbicidal performances of EK-2612 on several grass species in comparison with tralkoxydim, a commercialized cyclohexanedione derivative. Like tralkoxydim, the compound EK-2612 showed excellent control efficacy on most grass weeds tested through foliar application rates between 250 and 63 g AI ha(-1). Unlike tralkoxydim, however, EK-2612 showed a good rice safety, and there was no rice damage observed at the level below 125 g AI ha(-1), while rice injury developed at the same application rates of tralkoxydim. With this rice safety, EK-2612 controlled barnyardgrass effectively up to the two-leaf stage under both submerged and dried paddy conditions. An in vitro ACCase assay indicated that EK-2612 is a strong ACCase inhibitor; however, the dose-response was not substantially different in rice and barnryardgrass, showing I50 values of 0.1 and 0.12 microM, respectively. These results suggest that the compound EK-2612 is targeting plant ACCase, but the whole-plant rice safety is not attributable to a different inhibition of the target site in rice from that in barnyardgrass.
15382928	Hexacoordinate hemoglobins are a class of proteins that exhibit reversible bis-histidyl coordination of the heme iron while retaining the ability to bind exogenous ligands. One hypothesis for their physiological function is that they scavenge nitric oxide, a reaction that oxidizes the protein and requires reduction of the heme iron to continue. Reduction kinetics of hexacoordinate hemoglobins, including human neuroglobin and cytoglobin, and those from Synechocystis and rice, are compared to myoglobin, soybean leghemoglobin, and several relevant mutant proteins. In all cases, bis-histidyl coordination greatly increases the rate of reduction by sodium dithionite when compared to pentacoordinate hemoglobins. In myoglobin and leghemoglobin, reduction is limited by the rate constant for electron transfer, whereas in the hexacoordinate hemoglobins reduction is limited only by bimolecular binding of the reductant. These results can be explained by differences in the reorganization energy for reduction between hexacoordinate and pentacoordinate hemoglobins.
15383095
15384489	Incompatible strains of Acidovorax avenae elicit an immune response in cultured rice cells, with immunity specifically induced by the flagellin of the incompatible strain. To identify genes regulated by flagellin perception signaling in cultured rice cells, gene expression patterns were analyzed with rice cDNA microarrays, including 3,353 independent rice cDNA clones. In all, 131 genes were differentially expressed between incompatible and compatible interactions. K-means clustering showed that 94 genes were upregulated and 32 genes were downregulated during incompatible interactions, whereas only 5 genes were upregulated during compatible interactions. Among the 126 genes that were up- or downregulated during incompatible interactions, expression of 46 genes was decreased when cultured rice cells were inoculated with a flagellin-deficient incompatible strain (delta fla1141-2), indicating that approximately 37% of the 126 genes were directly controlled by flagellin perception. Real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis using flagellins purified from incompatible or compatible strains was performed to confirm flagellin-regulated expression of candidate genes selected by microarray analysis. Results showed that induction of some genes involved in the immune response is regulated not only by the flagellin perception pathway, but also by another recognition molecule-perception pathway.
15384564	Human milk contains a wide array of proteins that provide biologic activities ranging from antimicrobial effects to immunostimulatory functions. Proteins like lactoferrin, secretory IgA, kappa-casein, lactoperoxidase, haptocorrin, lactadherin and peptides formed from human milk proteins during digestion can inhibit the growth of pathogenic bacteria and viruses and therefore protect against infection. At the same time, proteins like lactoferrin, bile-salt stimulated lipase, haptocorrin, kappa-casein, and folate-binding protein can facilitate the absorption of nutrients in the neonatal gut. However, the proteins in human milk themselves also provide adequate amounts of essential amino acids to the growing infant. This suggests a highly adapted digestive system, which allows the survival of some proteins and peptides in the upper gastrointestinal tract, while still allowing amino acid utilization from these proteins further down in the gut. It is now possible to produce recombinant human milk proteins in transgenic plants and animals, which makes it possible to further study the bioactivity of these proteins. Provided these proteins can be produced in large scale at low cost, that they show biologic activity and pose no safety concerns, it may be possible to add some human milk proteins to infant diets, such as formula and complementary foods. Human milk proteins produced in rice or potatoes, for example, could be added without much purification, because these staples commonly are used in weaning foods. Thus, some qualities provided by human milk may be included into other diets, although it is highly unlikely that all unique components of human milk can be copied this way.
15386094
15386164
15387180	A new method based on extraction with octylsilica (C8) followed by liquid chromatography coupled with fluorescence detection (LC-FLD) was studied to determine ochratoxin A (OTA) from cereals and cereal products. Optimization of different parameters, such as type and amount of solid phase, type and volume of eluent and amount of sample were carried out. Recovery of OTA from rice samples spiked at 10 ng/g level was of 86% with relative standard deviation of 5%. The limits of detection and quantification of the proposed method were 0.25 and 0.75 ng/g, respectively. Furthermore, LC-FLD after of OTA methylation and liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry with an electrospray interface were used for confirmation of OTA in all studied samples. The proposed method was applied to 62 samples of cereals and cereal products and the presence of OTA was found in seven samples.
15388956	The manufacturing processes used determined the physicochemical properties of the three kinds of rice food, garaeduk, bagsulgi, and cooked rice. The initial rate of hydrolysis by porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase (PPA) was affected by the food form. The firmer structure of garaeduk was apparently responsible for the difficulty in maceration, resulting in less digestion than with easily digestible food for the same maceration time. The initial rate of hydrolysis of each rice product by PPA increased with increasing maceration time in a Waring Blender for all of the processed rice products. The postprandial glucose and insulin responses to the three processed rice products were also studied in ten patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (4 men and 6 women aged 56.8 +/- 2.3 yr; duration of diabetes, 3.6 +/- 1.2 yr; body mass index (BMI), 23.7 +/- 2.6 kg/m2; fasting serum glucose, 143.9 +/- 5.1 mg/dl; serum insulin, 20.8 +/- 2.2 microU/ml). Each subject ingested of the three rice foods after a 12-h overnight fast, and the serum glucose and insulin levels were measured over a 0-240 min period. The postprandial serum glucose and insulin levels at 90 min after ingesting bagsulgi and cooked rice were less than those at 60 min, while the levels at 90 min after ingesting garaeduk were higher than those at 60 min. Garaeduk also significantly decreased the incremental responses of glucose and insulin when compared with bagsulgi and cooked rice. The results suggest that garaeduk would be the most unlikely to increase the postprandial serum glucose and insulin levels among the three rice foods. The food form, which eventually differentiated each food by its specific surface area with the same degree of maceration because of the characteristic physical strength, therefore affected the rate of rice starch hydrolysis both in vitro and in vivo.
15388961	In plants, the NADP malic enzymes (NADP-MEs) are encoded by small gene families. These NADP-ME gene families are relatively well described in C4 plants but not well studied in C3 plants. In this study, we investigated the NADP-ME gene family in a model C3 monocot plant (rice, Oryza sativa) based on its recently released genomic DNA sequence. We found that the rice NADP-ME family is composed of four members, one plastidic NADP-ME and three cytosolic versions. Although the rice NADP-ME genes identified share a high degree of similarity with one another, one cytosolic NADP-ME (OscytME3) contains several unique amino acid substitutions within highly conserved amino acid regions. Phylogenetic analysis showed that OscytME3 might be derived from a different evolutionary branch than the other three rice genes. Expression analysis of the four rice NADP-ME genes indicated that each had a different tissue-specific and developmental profile, although all four responded to stress stimuli.
15388982	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) produces diterpene phytoalexins, such as momilactones, oryzalexins, and phytocassanes. Using rice genome information and in vitro assay with recombinant enzymes, we identified genes (OsKS4 and OsKS10) encoding the type-A diterpene cyclases 9beta-pimara-7,15-diene synthase and ent-sandaracopimaradiene synthase which are involved in the biosynthesis of momilactones A, B and oryzalexins A-F respectively. Transcript levels of these two genes increased remarkably after ultraviolet (UV) treatment, which is consistent with elevated production of phytoalexins by UV. These two genes might prove powerful tools for understanding plant defense mechanisms in rice.
15392001
15393016
15395342
15395605
15400253
15407128
1541400	The structure and expression of the alpha-amylase-encoding gene, RAmy2A, are described. This only representative of the Amy2 subfamily in rice differs from other cereal alpha-amylase-encoding genes in several respects. It contains the largest introns of all the cereal alpha-amylase-encoding genes examined to date. Moreover, the second of three introns in this gene contains a long inverted repeat sequence that can potentially form a large and stable stem-loop structure in the unspliced RNA transcript. Finally, RAmy2A is constitutively expressed at very low levels in germinated seeds, root, etiolated leaves, immature seeds and callus. This is in marked contrast to the Amy2 genes of wheat and barley which are highly expressed in the aleurone layer of the germinated seeds.
15415446
15420365
15421804
15423490
15427346
15436730
15436844
15436859
15439205
15439513
15442974
15446478	Freeze-dried ileal effluent (1% wt/vol) from cannulated pigs fed rice-based diets with the inclusion of either animal protein (CON), animal protein plus potato starch (PS), animal protein plus sugar beet pulp (SBP), or animal protein plus wheat bran (WB) was incubated anaerobically at pH 6.0 in fermenters containing 5% (wt/vol) fecal slurry comprising mineral salts medium and 50 g/L of fresh feces from pigs fed the same diets as the cannulated pigs. Samples were collected from the fermenters at 0, 2, 4, 12, 24, and 48 h during in vitro fermentation for measuring nonstarch polysaccharides (NSP), starch, and short-chain fatty acids (SCFA). Results showed that the major SCFA produced were acetate, propionate, and butyrate. The inclusion of soluble dietary fiber (diet SBP) caused the highest concentrations of acetate, propionate, butyrate, and total SCFA, whereas the increase in the production of propionate resulting from the addition of insoluble dietary fiber (diet WB) only occurred at the initial stages during 48 h in vitro fermentation. At all sampling occasions (except for 4 h), the levels of butyrate were increased (P < 0.01) by resistant starch compared with fiber sources, showing that a higher level of butyrate can be achieved through microbial fermentation by potato starch. Lowered (P < 0.05) butyrate concentrations were observed with diet WB during in vitro fermentation. With the inclusion of fiber sources, the energy originating from SCFA was similar to that from NSP disappearance, whereas the values were lower (P < 0.05) from NSP disappearance than for SCFA generated without fiber sources supplemented. We conclude that more substrate is available in ileal effluent with the addition of soluble dietary fiber, and an increased level of butyrate could be achieved through microbial fermentation by resistant starch.
15446710	The phytopathogen Rhynchosporium alismatis, occurring on Alisma, Sagittaria and other genera in the Alismataceae, is under investigation as a mycoherbicide for alismataceous weeds in Australian rice crops. The type species of Rhynchosporium, R. secalis, belongs in the Helotiales while the phylogenetic relationships of R. alismatis were unknown. To identify fungi related to R. alismatis, the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the ribosomal DNA (ITS1, 5.8S rRNA gene, ITS2) of 56 isolates was sequenced and compared to those available in databases. Analysis of ITS sequences revealed close relationships between R. alismatis and the teleomorph genus Plectosphaerella, as well as several anamorphic fungi which were primarily species of Verticillium. Rhynchosporium alismatis and Plectosphaerella cucumerina clustered together with 98 % bootstrap support. Morphological comparisons supported this relationship indicating that R. alismatis and the anamorphic genus Plectosporium are congeneric. Rhynchosporium alismatis is transferred to Plectosporium, a name proposed for conservation.
15446718	In Australia, the endemic fungus Plectosporium alismatis (syn. Rhynchosporium alismatis) has potential use as a mycoherbicide for several species in the Alismataceae, a family of aquatic and semi-aquatic marsh herbs, which are considered to be important weeds in rice crops. Of five species identified in south-eastern Australia where rice is grown, two species, Sagittaria graminea and Sagittaria montevidensis are resistant (non-hosts), and no records of P. alismatis on these species have been reported. To better understand the interactions that lead to resistance in these pathosystems, the infection process of the fungus was studied on these species and also on the host Alisma plantago-aquatica, using light, fluorescent and scanning electron microscopy. On all three species both conidial germination and appressorium formation commenced within 6 h of inoculation with greater than 50 % of conidia elongating to form germ tube structures and associated appressoria 12-18 h post inoculation. Germ tube elongation and appressorium formation occurred randomly over the leaf surface. Direct host penetration was facilitated by the production of penetration hyphae that emerged from beneath appressoria. Penetration sites were clearly identified by the presence of spherical holes 0.25-0.5 microm in diam, and were frequently accompanied by resistance reactions in non-host species. Visible symptoms of disease occurred 4-6 d after inoculation of susceptible (host) species.
15447894	Glucose absorption from starchy food has only been described with small amounts ingested (approximately 20-75 g). Our aim was to describe total plasma (Ra) and exogenous glucose (Ra(exo)) appearance, glucose release from the liver (HGP), and the metabolic response after ingestion of 5 g polished or parboiled rice/kg body mass. Gas exchange and urea excretion were monitored in 8 healthy subjects before (3.5 h) and after (8 h) ingestion of rice intrinsically labeled with (13)C; [6,6-(2)H(2)]glucose was infused for the measurement of Ra, Ra(exo), and HGP. Changes in plasma glucose, insulin, lactate, and free fatty acids and the increase in Ra(exo) and Ra (approximately 200%) and the decrease in HGP (approximately 90%) were not significantly different (P > 0.05) after ingestion of either rice. Glucose oxidation was not significantly different (111.6 +/- 8.2 compared with 89.0 +/- 11.3 g; P = 0.13), but fat oxidation was significantly lower (9.9 +/- 1.7 compared with 21.3 +/- 4.0 g; P < 0.05) after parboiled than after polished rice. The percentage of the glucose load that appeared in the circulation over 8 h was not significantly different after ingestion of polished (70.4 +/- 4.5%) or parboiled (63.8 +/- 2.0%) rice (P > 0.05). Although the starch in parboiled rice is less susceptible to digestion in vitro, exogenous glucose availability was not significantly different after ingestion of large amounts of polished or parboiled rice. Glucose absorption remains incomplete 8 h after ingestion of both types of rice.
15448199	Rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Oochikara) is a typical silicon-accumulating plant, but the mechanism responsible for the high silicon uptake by the roots is poorly understood. We characterized the silicon uptake system in rice roots by using a low-silicon rice mutant (lsi1) and wild-type rice. A kinetic study showed that the concentration of silicon in the root symplastic solution increased with increasing silicon concentrations in the external solution but saturated at a higher concentration in both lines. There were no differences in the silicon concentration of the symplastic solution between the wild-type rice and the mutant. The form of soluble silicon in the root, xylem, and leaf identified by (29)Si-NMR was also the same in the two lines. However, the concentration of silicon in the xylem sap was much higher in the wild type than in the mutant. These results indicate that at least two transporters are involved in silicon transport from the external solution to the xylem and that the low-silicon rice mutant is defective in loading silicon into xylem rather than silicon uptake from external solution to cortical cells. To map the responsible gene, we performed a bulked segregant analysis by using both microsatellite and expressed sequence tag-based PCR markers. As a result, the gene was mapped to chromosome 2, flanked by microsatellite marker RM5303 and expressed sequence tag-based PCR marker E60168.
15448895	The capacity to tiller is a key factor that determines plant architecture. Using molecular markers, a single major gene reducing tiller number, formally named the tiller inhibition gene (tin), was mapped to the short arm of chromosome 1A in wheat. We identified a tightly linked microsatellite marker (Xgwm136) that may be useful in future marker-assisted selection. The tin gene was mapped to the distal deletion bin of chromosome 1AS (FLM value 0.86) and wheat ESTs which were previously mapped to the same deletion bin were used to identify 18 closely related sequences in the syntenic region of rice chromosome 5. For a subset of wheat ESTs that detected flanking markers for tin, we identified closely related sequences within the most distal 300 kb of rice chromosome 5S. The synteny between the distal chromosome ends of wheat 1AS and rice 5S appeared to be disrupted at the hairy glume locus and seed storage protein loci. We compared map position of tin with other reduced tillering mutants characterised in other cereals to identify possible orthologous genes.
15449542	The complete nucleotide sequence of the chloroplast genome of sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) has been determined. It is a circular double-stranded DNA molecule, 141,182 bp in size, and is composed of a large single copy of 83,048 bp, a small single copy of 12,544 bp, and a pair of inverted repeat regions of 22,795 bp each. A comparative analysis among monocots showed that the sugarcane chloroplast genome was very similar to maize but not to rice or wheat. Between sugarcane and maize at the rps16-trnQ (UUG) region, however, a length polymorphism was identified. With regard to insertions/deletions equal to or longer than 5 bp, a total of 53 insertion and 31 deletion events were identified in the sugarcane chloroplast genome. Of the 84 loci identified, a pair of direct repeat sequences was located side by side in a tandem fashion in 47 loci (56.0%). A recombination event during plant evolution is discussed at two sites between the sugarcane and tobacco chloroplast genomes.
15450955	In a majority of living organisms, a fundamental protection mechanism from reactive oxygen species is by the ascorbate-glutathione cycle in which an important antioxidant, ascorbate (vitamin C), is utilized to convert harmful H2O2 to H2O. Monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR) maintains reduced pools of ascorbate by recycling the oxidized form of ascorbate. By screening a Brassica campestris cDNA library, we identified a B. campestris MDHAR cDNA (BcMdhar) which encodes a polypeptide of 434 amino acids possessing domains characteristic of FAD- and NAD(P)H-binding proteins. The predicted amino acid sequence of the open reading frame (ORF) shows a high level of identity to the cytosolic MDHAR of rice, pea and tomato, and does not possess N-terminal leader sequence suggesting that it encodes a cytosolic form of MDHAR. Genomic Southern blot analysis indicated that a single nuclear gene encodes this enzyme. Northern hybridization analysis detected BcMdhar transcripts in all plant tissues examined. The level of BcMdhar mRNA increased in response to oxidative stress invoked by hydrogen peroxide, salicylic acid, paraquat, and ozone.
15451319	Azaphilone pigments, monascusones A (1) and B (2), together with two known azaphilones, monascin (3) and FK17-P2b2 (4), were isolated from the CH2Cl2 extract of a yellow mutant of the fungus M. kaoliang grown on rice. Structures of the isolated compounds were elucidated by analyses of spectroscopic data. Monascusone A (1), the major metabolite of M. kaoliang, showed no antimalarial (against Plasmodium falciparum), antitubercular (against Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Ra), and antifungal (toward Candida albicans) activities. Compound 1 exhibited no cytotoxicity against BC (breast cancer) and KB (human epidermoid carcinoma of cavity) cell lines.
15452649	A field experiment was conducted in a farmer"s field in the district of Nadia, West Bengal, India to study the management of N through leaf color chart (LCC) and soil plant analysis development (SPAD) or chlorophyll meter in rice (cv. IET-4094) during the Kharif (wet season) of 2001-2002 and 2002-2003 by taking the treatment combinations based on different levels of N at fixed schedule and through LCC and SPAD. The experimental soil (0-15 cm) had pH 7.33; organic C 0.43%; available N 408.70 kg ha(-1); available P 6.92 kg ha(-1); and available K 66.31 kg ha(-1). The results of LCC and SPAD or chlorophyll meter for the N management in rice show that values of both LCC and SPAD significantly increased with an increasing level of N. The mean values of LCC and SPAD varied from 3.19-5.31 and 27.36-39.26, respectively, in rice. The results show that the amount of N can be saved as 20-42.5 and 27.5-47.5 kg N ha(-1) through the use of LCC and SPAD in rice over the fixed-timing N treatment T7 where 150 kg N ha(-1) was applied in three (3) splits without reduction in the yield. The SPAD- and LCC-treated N plot showed higher N-use efficiency over fixed-scheduling N treatment in rice. The results further show that SPAD value of 37 and LCC value of 5 have been proved to be superior treatments over SPAD (35) and LCC (4) for the best management of N in rice in an Inceptisol.
15452707	Analysis of lignification in rice has been facilitated by the availability of the recently completed rice genome sequence, and rice will serve as an important model for understanding the relationship of grass lignin composition to cell wall digestibility. Cinnamyl-alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) is an enzyme important in lignin biosynthesis. The rice genome contains 12 distinct genes present at nine different loci that encode products with significant similarity to CAD. The rice gene family is diverse with respect to other angiosperm and gymnosperm CAD genes isolated to date and includes one member (OsCAD6) that contains a peroxisomal targeting signal and is substantially diverged relative to other family members. Four closely related family members (OsCAD8A-D) are present at the same locus and represent the product of a localized gene duplication and inversion. Promoter-reporter gene fusions to OsCAD2, an orthologue of the CAD gene present at the bm1 (brown midrib 1) locus of maize, reveal that in rice expression is associated with vascular tissue in aerial parts of the plant and is correlated with the onset of lignification. In root tissue, expression is primarily in the cortical parenchyma adjacent to the exodermis and in vascular tissue.
15453190	Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIR) is a nondestructive analytical technique that has been used for simultaneous prediction of the concentrations of several substrates, products and constructs in mixtures sampled from fermentation processes. In this chapter, we discuss applications of NIR for the monitoring of bioprocesses involving rice vinegar, compost, glycolipid, L-glutamic acid, lactic acid fermentation, mushroom cultivation, and Koji production. This includes detailed discussion of applications of NIR to process management of rice vinegar fermentation and compost fermentation. In the present study, absorbance at wavelengths between 400 and 2500 nm was measured at 2 nm intervals. To obtain calibration equations, multiple linear regression (MLR) was performed on NIR spectral data and conventional analysis values of a calibration sample set. To validate these calibration equations, they were used to calculate concentrations of a prediction sample set, which were then compared with concentrations measured by conventional methods. There was excellent agreement between the results of the conventional method and those of the NIR method, when both were used to analyze culture broth of rice vinegar fermentation and solid-state fermented compost. These results indicate that NIR is a useful method for monitoring and control of bioprocesses.
15454690	The sap-sucking homopteran insects, commonly known as aphids and leafhoppers are responsible for a huge amount of lost productivity of mustard, chickpea, cabbage, rice and many other important crops. Due to their unique feeding habits and ability to build up a huge population in a very short time, they are very difficult to control. The objective of the ongoing program is to develop insect-resistant crop species through genetic engineering techniques to combat the yield losses, which necessitates the identification of appropriate control elements. In this direction, mannose-binding 25 kDa lectins have been purified from leaves of garlic, Diffenbachia sequina and tubers of Colocasia esculanta. The purified lectins have been analyzed in SDS-PAGE. The effectiveness of these lectins against chickpea aphids, mustard aphids and green leaf hoppers of rice have been tested. The LC(50) value of each lectin against different insects had been monitored [1,2]. Through immunolocalization analysis, the binding of the lectin had been demonstrated at the epithelial membrane of the midgut of the lectin-treated insects [1]. Receptor proteins of brush border membrane vesicle (BBMV) of the target insects, responsible for binding of the lectin to the midgut of the epithelial layer have been purified and analyzed through ligand assay. Biochemical studies have been undertaken to investigate the lectin-receptor interaction at molecular level.
15457240
15457261	Mutator-like transposable elements (MULEs) are found in many eukaryotic genomes and are especially prevalent in higher plants. In maize, rice and Arabidopsis a few MULEs were shown to carry fragments of cellular genes. These chimaeric elements are called Pack-MULEs in this study. The abundance of MULEs in rice and the availability of most of the genome sequence permitted a systematic analysis of the prevalence and nature of Pack-MULEs in an entire genome. Here we report that there are over 3,000 Pack-MULEs in rice containing fragments derived from more than 1,000 cellular genes. Pack-MULEs frequently contain fragments from multiple chromosomal loci that are fused to form new open reading frames, some of which are expressed as chimaeric transcripts. About 5% of the Pack-MULEs are represented in collections of complementary DNA. Functional analysis of amino acid sequences and proteomic data indicate that some captured gene fragments might be functional. Comparison of the cellular genes and Pack-MULE counterparts indicates that fragments of genomic DNA have been captured, rearranged and amplified over millions of years. Given the abundance of Pack-MULEs in rice and the widespread occurrence of MULEs in all characterized plant genomes, gene fragment acquisition by Pack-MULEs might represent an important new mechanism for the evolution of genes in higher plants.
15457264	Pathogens have evolved different strategies to overcome the various barriers that they encounter during infection of their hosts. The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea causes one of the most damaging diseases of cultivated rice and has emerged as a paradigm system for investigation of foliar pathogenicity. This fungus undergoes a series of well-defined developmental steps during leaf infection, including the formation of elaborate penetration structures (appressoria). This process has been studied in great detail, and over thirty M. grisea genes that condition leaf infection have been identified. Here we show a new facet of the M. grisea life cycle: this fungus can undergo a different (and previously uncharacterized) set of programmed developmental events that are typical of root-infecting pathogens. We also show that root colonization can lead to systemic invasion and the development of classical disease symptoms on the aerial parts of the plant. Gene-for-gene type specific disease resistance that is effective against rice blast in leaves also operates in roots. These findings have significant implications for fungal development, epidemiology, plant breeding and disease control.
15457801	Slug test data obtained from tests performed in an unconfined aquifer are commonly analyzed by graphical or numerical approaches to determine the aquifer parameters. This paper derives three fourth-degree polynomials to represent the relationship between Bouwer and Rice's coefficients and the ratio of the screen length to the radius of the gravel envelope. A numerical approach using the nonlinear least squares and Newton's method is used to determine hydraulic conductivity from the best fit of the slug test data. The method of nonlinear least squares minimizes the sum of the squares of the differences between the predicted and observed water levels inside the well. With the polynomials, the hydraulic conductivity can be obtained by simply solving the nonlinear least squares equation by Newton's method. A computer code, SLUGBR, was developed from the derived polynomials using the proposed numerical approach. The results of analyzing two slug test datasets show that SLUGBR can determine hydraulic conductivity with very good accuracy.
15458388	The nuclear-encoded protein RPS14 (ribosomal protein S14) of rice mitochondria is synthesized in the cytosol as a polyprotein consisting of a large N-terminal domain comprising preSDHB (succinate dehydrogenase B precursor) and the C-terminal RPS14. After the preSDHB-RPS14 polyprotein is transported into the mitochondrial matrix, the protein is processed into three peptides: the N-terminal prepeptide, the SDHB domain and the C-terminal mature RPS14. Here we report that the general MPP (mitochondrial processing peptidase) plays an essential role in processing of the polyprotein. Purified yeast MPP cleaved both the N-terminal presequence and the connector region between SDHB and RPS14. Moreover, the connector region was processed more rapidly than the presequence. When the site of cleavage between SDHB and RPS14 was determined, it was located in an MPP processing motif that has also been shown to be present in the N-terminal presequence. Mutational analyses around the cleavage site in the connector region suggested that MPP interacts with multiple sites in the region, possibly in a similar manner to the interaction with the N-terminal presequence. In addition, MPP preferentially recognized the unfolded structure of preSDHB-RPS14. In mitochondria, MPP may recognize the stretched polyprotein during passage of the precursor through the translocational apparatus in the inner membrane, and cleave the connecting region between the SDHB and RPS14 domains even before processing of the presequence.
15459795	In transgenic plants, transgene copy number can greatly influence the expression level and genetic stability of the target gene, making estimation of transgene copy number an important area of genetically modified (GM) crop research. Transgene copy numbers are currently estimated by Southern analysis, which is laborious and time-consuming, requires relatively large amounts of plant materials and may involve hazardous radioisotopes. We report here the development of a sensitive, high-throughput real-time (RT)-PCR technique for estimating transgene copy number in GM rice. This system uses TaqMan quantitative RT-PCR and comparison to a novel rice endogenous reference gene coding for sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) to determine the copy numbers of the exogenous beta-glucuronidase (GUS) and hygromycin phosphotransferase (HPT) genes in transgenic rice. The copy numbers of the GUS and HPT in primary rice transformants (T0) were calculated by comparing quantitative PCR results of the GUS and HPT genes with those of the internal standard, SPS. With optimized PCR conditions, we achieved significantly accurate estimates of one, two, three and four transgene copies in the T0 transformants. Furthermore, our copy number estimations of both the GUS reporter gene and the HPT selective marker gene showed that rearrangements of the T-DNA occurred more frequently than is generally believed in transgenic rice.
15460266	This study used simple rapid-assessment techniques to test the feasibility of increasing the consumption of complementary foods by infants by asking mothers to increase meal quantity or frequency or by altering the viscosity/energy density of the food. The feasibility of using micronutrient supplements either added directly to food or administered as liquid drops was also examined. The study was conducted in rural Bangladesh and involved four separate short-term behavioral change trials. Depending on the trial, fieldworkers recruited 30 to 45 infants 6 to 12 months of age. Following recommendations to increase the amount of food provided to infants, the mean intakes from single meals increased from 40 +/- 23 g on day 1 to 64 +/- 30 g on day 7 (p < 0.05). In a second trial, the mean meal frequency increased from 2.2 +/- 1.3 on day 1 to 4.1 +/- 1.3 on day 7 (p < 0.05). Provision of high-energy-density diets, prepared by decreasing viscosity with alpha-amylase or by hand-mashing rice and dhal into a paste before feeding, increased single-meal energy consumption from 54 +/- 35 kcal to 79 +/- 52 kcal or 75 +/- 37 kcal (p < 0.05), respectively. Both types of micronutrient supplements were well accepted and used according to recommendations. In conclusion, it was possible to change short-term child-feeding behaviors to promote increased food intake, mealfrequency, energy density, and micronutrient consumption. Because each of these interventions lasted for only about 1 week, however, the long-term sustainability of these changes is not known. Moreover, the effect of increased feeding of complementary foods on intakes of breastmilk and total daily consumption of energy and nutrients requires further study.
15461269	To detect cowpea trypsin inhibitor (CpTI) in transgenic rice leaves and build a possible method to assay transgenic plant with CpTI. Nowadays gene assay is the most useful method to detect transgenic plants. But false positive may be got in gene assay and effective protein may not be produced. So assay of foreign protein is the most direct and conformable method. Monoclonal antibodies were got through traditional method of preparation. Three monoclonal antibodies were got. Detection of CpTI in transgenic rice leaves with these three antibodies mixes through Western blotting was conducted and the result was satisfying. The method of using the mixes of three antibodies to detect the CpTI in plants through Western blotting was satisfying.
15461862	MGN-3/Biobran, modified arabinoxylan rice bran, has been shown to be a potent biological response modifier (BRM) as manifested by stimulation of different arms of the immune system such as NK, T and B cells; however, its effect on macrophages has not yet been studied. The effects of MGN-3 on macrophage function was examined in vitro using 3 models: human macrophage cell line U937, murine macrophage cell line RAW264.7, and murine peritoneal macrophages (P-M phi). Treatment with MGN-3 resulted in an increase in the percentages of attachment and phagocytosis of yeast by macrophages. The effect depends on the type of macrophage and the dose of MGN-3 applied. Macrophages also demonstrated enhancement in their spreading ability, post treatment with MGN-3. Results also showed that MGN-3, in a dose dependent manner (1, 10,100 microg/ml), significantly induced high levels of production of cytokines: TNF-alpha; and IL-6. In addition, MGN-3 significantly increased nitric oxide (NO) production. This data demonstrates that MGN-3 is a potent inducer of phagocytic function by macrophage, and suggests that MGN-3 is a useful agent for fighting microbial infection.
15462519	In laboratory incubation experiments, application of a commercial formulation of the herbicide butachlor (N-butoxymethyl-2-chloro-2',6'-diethyl acetanilide) to three tropical rice soils, widely differing in their physicochemical characteristics, under flooded condition inhibited methane (CH4) production. The inhibitory effect was concentration dependent and most remarkable in the alluvial soil. Thus, following application of butachlor at 5, 10, 50 and 100 microg g(-1) soil, respectively, cumulative CH4 production in the alluvial soil was inhibited by 15%, 31%, 91% and 98% over unamended control. Since CH4 production was less pronounced in the sandy loam and acid sulfate soil, the impact of amendment with butchalor, albeit inhibitory, was less extensive than the alluvial soil. Inhibition of CH4 production in butachlor-amended alluvial soil was related to the prevention in the drop in redox potential as well as low methanogenic bacterial population especially at high concentrations of butachlor. CH4 oxidation was also inhibited in butachlor-amended alluvial soil with the inhibitory effect being more prevalent under flooded condition. Inhibition in CH4 oxidation was related to a reduction in the population of soluble methane monooxygenase producing methanotrophs. Results demonstrate that butachlor, a commonly used herbicide in rice cultivation, even at very low concentrations can affect CH4 production and its oxidation, thereby influencing the biogeochemical cycle of CH4 in flooded rice soils.
15463204	Irrigation can bring enormous rewards to a hungry world. For example by allowing agriculture in arid and semi-arid areas, by extending the growing season, and by giving higher crop yields. The most extensively irrigated crop is rice. This is where problems arise, because as rice fields are usually flooded for long periods, they provide ideal breeding places for mosquito vectors. Here Mike Service discusses some o f the health hazards, in particular malaria, that are often associated with rice cultivation, and the environmental measures that are sometimes employed to combat these problems.
15465178	In order to study the plant uptake and downward migration of radiostrontium and radiocesium deposited on to a flooded rice field, 85Sr and 137Cs were applied to the standing water over an acidic sandy soil in planted lysimeters. The plant uptake was quantified with the areal transfer factor (TFa, m2 kg(-1)-dry plant). Following the spiking 14 days after transplanting, the TFa values for the hulled seeds were 3.9 x 10(-4) for 85Sr and 1.4 x 10(-4) for 137Cs, whereas those for the straws were 1.3 x 10(-2) and 3.2 x 10(-4), respectively. The 137Cs TFa from the spiking at the anthesis/milky-ripe stage was several times higher than that from the earlier spiking, whereas the difference was much less in the 85Sr TFa. Such an increase in the 137Cs TFa was attributed mainly to an enhanced plant-base uptake. The addition of KCl and lime after the spiking significantly reduced the TFa values of both radionuclides. The reducing effect was greater for the later spiking. An appreciable fraction of the applied activity leached out of the lysimeter for 85Sr, whereas a negligible fraction leached for 137Cs. The leaching was remarkably increased by the KCl and lime addition for both. A conspicuous localization of 137Cs with respect to the soil surface was observed. In a batch experiment, the 137Cs concentration in the standing water decreased more rapidly than that of 85Sr, both of which were fitted to the power functions of the elapsed time. To add KCl and lime slowed such decreases to lessen the distribution coefficients (Kd) of both 85Sr and 137Cs.
15466237	The ancestral shared synteny concept has been advocated as an approach to positionally clone genes from complex genomes. However, the unified grass genome model and the study of grasses as a single syntenic genome is a topic of considerable controversy. Hence, more quantitative studies of cereal colinearity at the sequence level are required. This study compared a contiguous 300-kb sequence of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) genome with the colinear region in rice (Oryza sativa). The barley sequence harbors genes involved in endosperm texture, which may be the subject of distinctive evolutionary forces and is located at the extreme telomeric end of the short arm of chromosome 5H. Comparative sequence analysis revealed the presence of five orthologous genes and a complex, postspeciation evolutionary history involving small chromosomal rearrangements, a translocation, numerous gene duplications, and extensive transposon insertion. Discrepancies in gene content and microcolinearity indicate that caution should be exercised in the use of rice as a surrogate for map-based cloning of genes from large genome cereals such as barley.
15466290	Maize (Zea mays L. ssp. mays), one of the most important agricultural crops in the world, originated by hybridization of two closely related progenitors. To investigate the fate of its genes after tetraploidization, we analyzed the sequence of five duplicated regions from different chromosomal locations. We also compared corresponding regions from sorghum and rice, two important crops that have largely collinear maps with maize. The split of sorghum and maize progenitors was recently estimated to be 11.9 Mya, whereas rice diverged from the common ancestor of maize and sorghum approximately 50 Mya. A data set of roughly 4 Mb yielded 206 predicted genes from the three species, excluding any transposon-related genes, but including eight gene remnants. On average, 14% of the genes within the aligned regions are noncollinear between any two species. However, scoring each maize region separately, the set of noncollinear genes between all four regions jumps to 68%. This is largely because at least 50% of the duplicated genes from the two progenitors of maize have been lost over a very short period of time, possibly as short as 5 million years. Using the nearly completed rice sequence, we found noncollinear genes in other chromosomal positions, frequently in more than one. This demonstrates that many genes in these species have moved to new chromosomal locations in the last 50 million years or less, most as single gene events that did not dramatically alter gene structure.
15466291	The cereal endosperm is a major organ of the seed and an important component of the world's food supply. To understand the development and physiology of the endosperm of cereal seeds, we focused on the identification of genes expressed at various times during maize endosperm development. We constructed several cDNA libraries to identify full-length clones and subjected them to a twofold enrichment. A total of 23,348 high-quality sequence-reads from 5'- and 3'-ends of cDNAs were generated and assembled into a unigene set representing 5326 genes with paired sequence-reads. Additional sequencing yielded a total of 3160 (59%) completely sequenced, full-length cDNAs. From 5326 unigenes, 4139 (78%) can be aligned with 5367 predicted rice genes and by taking only the "best hit" be mapped to 3108 positions on the rice genome. The 22% unigenes not present in rice indicate a rapid change of gene content between rice and maize in only 50 million years. Differences in rice and maize gene numbers also suggest that maize has lost a large number of duplicated genes following tetraploidization. The larger number of gene copies in rice suggests that as many as 30% of its genes arose from gene amplification, which would extrapolate to a significant proportion of the estimated 44,027 candidate genes of its entire genome. Functional classification of the maize endosperm unigene set indicated that more than a fourth of the novel functionally assignable genes found in this study are involved in carbohydrate metabolism, consistent with its role as a storage organ.
15466514	Propionate is an important intermediate of the degradation of organic matter in many anoxic environments. In methanogenic environments, due to thermodynamic constraints, the oxidation of propionate requires syntrophic cooperation of propionate-fermenting proton-reducing bacteria and H(2)-consuming methanogens. We have identified here microorganisms that were active in syntrophic propionate oxidation in anoxic paddy soil by rRNA-based stable-isotope probing (SIP). After 7 weeks of incubation with [(13)C]propionate (<10 mM) and the oxidation of approximately 30 micromol of (13)C-labeled substrate per g dry weight of soil, we found that archaeal nucleic acids were (13)C labeled to a larger extent than those of the bacterial partners. Nevertheless, both terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and cloning analyses revealed Syntrophobacter spp., Smithella spp., and the novel Pelotomaculum spp. to predominate in "heavy" (13)C-labeled bacterial rRNA, clearly showing that these were active in situ in syntrophic propionate oxidation. Among the Archaea, mostly Methanobacterium and Methanosarcina spp. and also members of the yet-uncultured "rice cluster I" lineage had incorporated substantial amounts of (13)C label, suggesting that these methanogens were directly involved in syntrophic associations and/or thriving on the [(13)C]acetate released by the syntrophs. With this first application of SIP in an anoxic soil environment, we were able to clearly demonstrate that even guilds of microorganisms growing under thermodynamic constraints, as well as phylogenetically diverse syntrophic associations, can be identified by using SIP. This approach holds great promise for determining the structure and function relationships of further syntrophic or other nutritional associations in natural environments and for defining metabolic functions of yet-uncultivated microorganisms.
15466875	When examining the growth patterns of rice crops for a 5-year period, it was found that the time course of accumulation of above-ground dry matter did not follow a simple sigmoid curve as expected for a monocarpic plant. Instead, there was a decrease in growth around flowering, followed by an increase and then a final decrease of growth at crop maturity. There are two nearly equal phases of growth in rice, with about half of the first phase of vegetative growth preceding reproductive growth. Logistic curves were fitted separately to the vegetative parts of the crop and to the reproductive parts (the panicle). When the curves were summed, the combined curve gave a good description of the time course of above-ground dry matter, capturing the pause in growth and its resumption. The overall pattern of growth can be seen to be the result of this bi-phasic nature of the crop. Variations in the panicle phase of growth were shown to be largely a consequence of year-to-year variations in the weather, whereas the vegetative phase seemed largely independent of those variations. Analysing rice growth as two components, each with a logistic curve, provides insight into the growth processes of the plant and the pattern of yield formation.
15466878	This Botanical Briefing attempts to summarize what is currently known about the molecular bases of disease resistance in cereal species and suggests future research directions. An increasing number of resistance (R) genes have been isolated from rice, maize, wheat and barley that encode both structurally related and unique proteins. This R protein diversity may be attributable to the different modus operandi employed by pathogen species in some cases, but it is also a consequence of multiple defence strategies being employed against phytopathogens. Mutational analysis of barley has identified additional genes required for activation of an R gene-mediated defence response upon pathogen infection. In some instances very closely related barley R proteins require different proteins for defence activation, demonstrating that, within a single plant species, multiple resistance signalling pathways and different resistance strategies have evolved to confer protection against a single pathogen species. Despite the apparent diversity of cereal resistance mechanisms, some of the additional molecules required for R protein function are conserved amongst cereal and dicotyledonous species and even other eukaryotic species. Thus the derivation of functional homologues and interacting partner proteins from other species is contributing to the understanding of resistance signalling in cereals. The potential and limit of utilizing the rice genome sequence for further R gene isolation from cereal species is also considered, as are the new biotechnological possibilities for disease control arising from R gene isolation. Molecular analyses in cereals have further highlighted the complexity of plant-pathogen co-evolution and have shown that numerous active and passive defence strategies are employed by plants against phytopathogens. Many advances in understanding the molecular basis of disease resistance in cereals have focused on monogenic resistance traits. Future research targets are likely to include less experimentally tractable, durable polygenic resistances and nonhost resistance mechanisms.
15468665	The main objective of this study was to investigate the chemical characteristics of post-harvest biomass burning aerosols from field burning of barley straw in late spring and rice straw in late fall in rural areas of Korea. A 12-hr integrated intensive sampling of particulate matter (PM) with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to 10 microm (PM10) and PM with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to 2.5 microm (PM2.5) biomass burning aerosols had been conducted continuously in Gwangju, Korea, during two biomass burning periods: June 4--15, 2001, and October 8--November 14, 2002. The fine and coarse particles of biomass burning aerosols were analyzed for mass and ionic, elemental, and carbonaceous species. The average fine and coarse mass concentrations of biomass burning aerosols were, respectively, 129.6 and 24.2 microg/m3 in June 2001 and 47.1 and 33.2 microg/m3 in October--November 2002. An exceptionally high PM2.5 concentration of 157.8 microg/m3 was observed during biomass burning events under stagnant atmospheric conditions. In the fine mode, chlorine and potassium were unusually rich because of the high content of semi-arid vegetation. Both organic carbon (OC) and elemental carbon increased during the biomass burning periods, with the former exhibiting a higher abundance. PM from the open field burning of agricultural waste has an adverse impact on local air quality and regional climate.
15468921	Main-effect QTL, epistatic effects and their interactions with environment are important genetic components of quantitative traits. In this study, we analyzed the QTLs, epistatic effects and QTL by environment interactions (QE) underlying nine traits of yield and yield-component, using a doubled-haploid (DH) population consisted of 190 lines from the cross between an indica parent Zhenshan 97 and a japonica parent WYJ 2, and tested in two-year replicated field trials. A genetic linkage map with 179 SSR (simple sequence repeat) marker loci was constructed. A mixed linear model approach was applied to detect QTLs, digenic interactions and QEs for the nine traits. In total, 57 QTLs of main effects, 41 digenic interactions, eight QEs and seven interactions of epistasis by environment were detected. Each of the main-effect QTLs individually explained 1.3 % to 25.8% of the phenotypic variations. And they collectively explained 11.5% to 66.8% of the phenotypic variations for these traits. Most of the traits (except seed setting) had the QTLs simultaneously detected in two years. Many of the traits shared same QTLs with each other, which is consistent with their significant phenotypic correlations. The pleiotropism or tight linkage of QTLs for different traits might be the important genetic base for trait correlations. The environmental influences on the stability of the trait performance were also discussed.
15469645	The purposes of the present study were to investigate the effects of feeding a cereal grain containing NSP on body growth and the intestinal microenvironment of recently weaned pigs, and to examine resultant associations with pathogenic Escherichia coli in the intestinal tract. In Expt 1, pearl barley, a grain rich in soluble NSP, was incorporated (250, 500 or 750 g/kg diet) into a low-fibre control diet based on cooked white rice and fed for 7-10 d following weaning. Consumption of pearl barley did not significantly alter piglet live-weight gain compared with the control cooked rice diet, but it accelerated large intestinal growth and fermentation, decreased ileal starch digestibility and increased intestinal viscosity. Expt 2 was conducted to determine whether these differences would favour proliferation of enterotoxigenic E. coli, the bacterium causing post-weaning colibacillosis (PWC). Three groups of pigs were weaned onto diets based on cooked white rice, rice with 500 g pearl barley/kg, or rice with 500 g pearl barley/kg supplemented with exogenous enzymes (Porzyme 8100; Danisco, Marlborough, Wilts., UK). Pigs were inoculated orally with haemolytic E. coli serovar O8;K87;K88 after weaning. Animals eating the pearl barley had increased viscosity of the intestinal contents, greater intestinal colonisation with the E. coli strain and more diarrhoea than pigs fed the rice-only diet. The enzymes did not reduce viscosity or protect from PWC. The results suggest that pearl barley alters the intestinal microenvironment and predisposes to PWC, whilst a low-viscosity, highly digestible diet based on cooked white rice is protective.
15471795	Inadequate dietary energy intake and poor body condition can negatively affect reproductive function. Supplemental lipids have been used to increase energy density of the diet and may also have direct positive effects on reproduction in beef cattle. Several fatty acid sources have been studied as they relate to reproductive function. Common sources include sunflower, safflower, cottonseed, rice bran, soybeans, fishmeal, animal tallow, and calcium salts of fatty acids. Fats have been fed before and after calving, during the breeding season, and during heifer development. Response to fat has been investigated through measuring body weight and body condition score, age at puberty, postpartum interval, first-service conception rates, pregnancy rates, calving interval, calving difficulty, and calf birth and weaning weight. Animal response seems to depend on body condition score, age (parity), nutrients available in the diet, and type of fat supplemented. To elucidate potential mechanisms of action, scientists have investigated changes in follicular and uterine development, hormonal profiles, brain function, and embryonic development. Feeding supplemental fat has resulted in varied and inconsistent effects on reproductive function. Elucidating how supplemental fat can influence reproductive function has been a difficult process. The complexity of the reproductive system and makeup of fat supplements are often confounded by management conditions and forage quality both in research and commercial feeding situations.
15471820	The aim of this paper was to verify the variation in the loss of seed dormancy during after-ripening and the interspecific and interpopulation variability in the degree of dormancy of seven wild and two cultivated rice species comprising 21 populations and two cultivars. Four wild rice species from South America, Oryza glumaepatula, O. latifolia, O. grandiglumis and O. alta, and two O. sativa cultivars were tested in one experiment. In a second experiment, five wild species, O. punctata, O. eichingeri, O.rufipogon, O. latifolia and O. glumaepatula, and one cultivated species (O. glaberrima) were evaluated. Initial germination tests were performed soon after the seeds were harvested and subsequently at 2-month intervals, for a total of six storage periods in the first experiment and three in the second. All tests were conducted in the dark at a temperature of 27 degrees C. Different patterns of after-ripening among populations within and between species were observed. The cultivated species (O. sativa and O. glaberrima) and, amongst the wild species, the tetraploids O. latifolia, O. grandiglumis and the diploids O. eichingeri and O. punctata, had weak dormancy, losing it completely 2 months after harvest, while O. rufipogon and O. glumaepatula exhibited pronounced dormancy. The latter showed different patterns of after-ripening between populations indigenous to the Amazon region and those originating in the Paraguay River system. Seeds of Solimoes (Amazon) and Japura origin showed weak dormancy whereas those of Paraguay origin showed deep dormancy. Ecological differences among natural habitats may be involved in such differentiation.
15473312	By cross breeding, the maize pepc gene in the pepc transgenic rice was successfully incorporated into the parents of two-, three-line hybrid rice, including sterile lines (Peiai64S, 2302S, 2304S, 2306S and Shuangjiu A) and restorer lines (5129, 02428 and Wanjing97) to breed the high-photosynthetic efficiency parents of hybrid rice and utilize heterosis between C4 and C4/C3 rice. Some lines of pepc transgenic rice (LPTR) have been developed. The study on the generations of LPTR suggests the following: (1) The segregation observed in F2 and BC1 progenies demonstrated that pepc transgene inherited as a single dominant gene in the progenies of LPTR. (2) The maize pepc gene is actively expressed at high level in LPTR, and changes of pepc gene expression in the progenies of LPTR may be related to position effect, difference of gene copy number and environmental factors. (3) Through the selection method of soaking seeds into hygromycin solution to germinate, tracing the pepc gene by PCR analysis, evaluating the performance of the rice plants in the field and examining PEPC activities, the segregation of the pepc transgene in LPTR was controlled effectively. Based on the above strategy three pepc transgene lines, H1596, H1597 and Y1470, have been selected. The result suggests that it is possible to breed practical, stable and high-expression pepc transgenic rice by conventional crossing.
15473322	Quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling low temperature germinability (LTG) in rice were identified using 81 recombinant inbreed lines (RILs) derived from a cross between a japonica variety Kinmaze and an indica variety DV85. The accurate condition of LTG evaluation was assumed at 15 degrees C for 10 d after removing the effect of dormancy and the second dormancy. By setting check, the scores of LTG in this study were evaluated. The germination rate at 15 degrees C for 10 d was scored to represent the LTG. The LTG of the RILs ranged from 0 to 99%. By single point analysis, simple interval mapping, and composite interval mapping, 5 putative QTL, qLTG-2, qLTG-6, qLTG-7, qLTG-LTG-11 and qLTG-12 were detected on chromosomes 2, 6, 7, 11 and 12 respectively. At the regions of qLTG-2, qLTG-6 and qLTG-11, DV85 alleles increased the LTG, while Kinmaze alleles increased it at the regions of qLTG-7 and qLTG-12. Among the five QTLs reported here, qLTG-2, qLTG-7 and qLTG-12 were newly detected, while the other two QTL-containing regions were close to those previously reported. Epistatic QTL were also detected in this paper.
15473323	Two Indica hybrid rice of Shanyou63 (A) and Shanyou22 (B), two glutinous landraces of Huanghenuo (C) and Zinuo (D) and three improved Japonica rice of Hexi41 (E), Chujing12 (F) and 8126 (G) were selected and their genetic resistance relationship was estimated using resistance gene analogue (RGA). The results showed that there were similar genetic relationships between hybrid varieties at the genetic similarity (GS) of 0.86,and among improved Japonica varieties at the GS of 0.84, while highly genetic diversifications between traditional varieties, Indica and Japonica varieties, traditional and modern variety (GS:0.45). The results also showed that clustering analysis based on RGA data were generally corresponded to known pedigrees and blast field resistances of the varieties. Based on varietal differences in RGA data and agronomic traits, plot experiments of five mixed-planting combinations of A/C, A/D, B/C, B/D and A/B and two combinations of E/C and E/F/G were conducted in Jianshui and Shiping counties (Indica rice growing region) and Luxi County (warm Japonica region) in Yunnan Province in past two years, respectively. The results demonstrated that rice blast management was more effective in five mixed-planting combinations of varieties with different genetic backgrounds (GS: 0.45-0.77) than in two combinations with similar genetic relationships (GS: 0.84-0.90), compared with their monocultures. It is evident for the highly susceptible landraces in mixed-planting to achieve disease control, with significant decreases both in incidence and severity. The blast control efficiencies of landraces in different mixture combinations reached to 54.47%-92.18%. The control efficiencies of improved varieties varied from 15.12% to 25.54% in mixture combinations with closed genetic relationship. In addition,the total yield of 5 varietal combinations with distant genetic relationship increased 539.0-904.0 kg/ha in the mixed-planting plots, at increase rates of 5.6%-10.2%. Mixed rice varieties with similar genetic background did not achieve significant yield increase. Otherwise, the yield of E/F/G decreased 2.7%-4.0% compared with pure stand. The results can provide scientific basis of varietal combinations in diversification experiments for blast control.
15473324	A DH (doubled haploid) population derived from a cross between Japonica upland rice IRAT109 and Japonica paddy rice Yuefu,was used in this study. Three culm traits, basal culm thickness(BCT), culm length (CL) and culm strength (CS), of DH lines and their parents under upland and lowland ecosystems at milk stage were studied. There were very significant positive correlations between BCT and CL, between BCT and CS and between CL and CS. Data from upland and lowland ecosystems were analyzed respectively and jointly, based on a constructed molecular linkage map(including 94 RFLP markers and 71 SSR markers and covering 1 535. 1cM)and the software QTLmapper version 1.0. A total of nine additive QTLs and five pairs of epistatic QTLs associated with BCT, CL, and CS were found by data analysis respectively. Six additive QTLs and six pairs of epistatic QTLs associated with BCT and CL were detected by data analysis jointly. Six additive QTLs and one pair of epistatic QTLs were detected by both methods. Two additive QTLs and two pairs of epistatic QTLs (bct1a, c/9, c/6a-c/6c and cs5-cs12) for culm traits with general contributions of over 30% to phenotypic variation might be useful for upland rice lodging resistance molecular breeding under upland ecosystem.
15473325	Rice line 'B5', which was derived from the wild rice Oryza officinalis Wall ex Watt through introgression, has been proved to be high resistant to brown planthopper, whitebacked planthopper and bacterial blight (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae). In this study, the resistance to bacterial blight of 187 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from a cross between ' B5' and 'Minghui63' were evaluated and RFLP markers linked to the resistance gene were identified by bulked segregant analysis. Analysis of the molecular marker linkage map and the data of the lesion length of RILs located the resistant gene within a 1. 3 cM region flanked by RFLP markers C904 and R596 on chromosome 1. This locus contributed to 52.96% of the phenotypic variance of resistance in the population, and is considered to be a new locus as compared with other resistant genes to bacterial blight that have been reported. We tentatively designate this gene as Xa29(t). This newly tagged gene introgressed from wild rice is valuable to molecular marker-assisted selection for multiple resistant materials in rice breeding programme. Furthermore, it provides information for cloning the resistant gene Xa29(t) in rice.
15473911	In animal pathogenic bacteria, horizontal gene transfer events (HGT) have been frequently observed in genomic regions that encode functions involved in biosynthesis of the outer membrane located lipopolysaccharide (LPS). As a result, different strains of the same pathogen can have substantially different lps biosynthetic gene clusters. Since LPS is highly antigenic, the variation at lps loci is attributed to be of advantage in evading the host immune system. Although LPS has been suggested as a potentiator of plant defense responses, interstrain variation at lps biosynthetic gene clusters has not been reported for any plant pathogenic bacterium. We report here the complete sequence of a 12.2 kb virulence locus of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) encoding six genes whose products are homologous to functions involved in LPS biosynthesis and transport. All six open reading frames (ORFs) have atypical G+C content and altered codon usage, which are the hallmarks of genomic islands that are acquired by horizontal gene transfer. The lps locus is flanked by highly conserved genes, metB and etfA, respectively encoding cystathionine gamma lyase and electron transport flavoprotein. Interestingly, two different sets of lps genes are present at this locus in the plant pathogens, Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (Xcc) and Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri (Xac). The genomic island is present in a number of Xoo strains from India and other Asian countries but is not present in two strains, one from India (BXO8) and another from Nepal (Nepal624) as well as the closely related rice pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoor). TAIL-PCR analysis indicates that sequences related to Xac are present at the lps locus in both BXO8 and Nepal624. The Xoor strain has a hybrid lps gene cluster, with sequences at the metB and etfA ends, being most closely related to sequences from Xac and the tomato pathogen, Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato respectively. This is the first report of hypervariation at an lps locus between different strains of a plant pathogenic bacterium. Our results indicate that multiple HGT events have occurred at this locus in the xanthomonad group of plant pathogens.
15474287	Identification of regulatory elements directing definite and specific spatiotemporal expression patterns is a prerequisite to the next generation of transgenic plants with commercial and ethical feasibility for producing plantibodies or other pharmaceutically important compounds. Here we describe the functional dissection of the barley nonspecific lipid transfer protein gene promoter, HvLTP2. The gene is specifically expressed in aleurone cells of cereals and used as an aleurone marker in maize and rice. The transcript is uniformly localised in the barley aleurone cells from around 10 DAP. Patchy expression in aleurone cells of transgenic rice has been reported and explained by silencing of transgenes. We have performed deletion analyses of the 801-bp HvLTP2 promoter to gain insight into the molecular basis of its regulation and the presence of putative regulatory elements. From the deletion studies, a 49-bp promoter region directing aleurone-specific expression was identified. Simultaneously, in vivo footprinting was carried out to identify promoter elements bound by putative regulatory proteins. Within the 49-bp fragment, the most promising candidate for a minimal cis-acting regulatory region directing aleurone specificity is the ds-sequence. Based on our results, we hypothesise that the ds-sequence directs aleurone specificity, possibly through a concerted action with elements directing general expression in the seed. Moreover, we present an overview of LTP2 elements putatively involved in directing seed, endosperm, and aleurone expression. Additionally, we report HvLTP2 expression in the embryo, not previously detected. The regulatory element(s) directing expression in embryo is located downstream of the 49-bp fragment directing aleurone specificity, thus demonstrating independent control of aleurone and embryo-localised expression. Finally, we discuss the existence of several endosperm-specific boxes and whether alternative promoter elements and combinations of them may direct aleurone expression, explaining why comparing different genes expressed in aleurone fail to identify only one required, common promoter element.
15474378	A new method for preparing alkyl esters of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in aqueous solution is adapted from the chloroformate method originally described by Husek for the analysis of amino acids. This method has the significant advantage of avoiding the generation and use of diazomethane, and is done in aqueous solution without the need to dry the sample with concomitant non-specific losses of IAA. The effectiveness of this method is demonstrated by its use in an isotope dilution gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) assay of IAA and L-tryptophan (Trp) in the culture supernatant of a series of Sinorhizobium meliloti and Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. trifolii strains that can interact with rice to either enhance or inhibit rice plant growth. We were testing the hypothesis that the rice growth inhibition was related to the biosynthesis of IAA. It was found that S. meliloti and Rhizobium strains produced high amounts of IAA in Trp supplemented BIII minimal medium compared to BIII media. All the strains produced more than the minimum amount of IAA required to inhibit rice growth and thus IAA is not the major inhibitory factor of rice seedling growth from S. meliloti and Rhizobium strains.
15474931	Biological wastes (sawdust, rice husk, coirpith and charcoal) and a naturally occurring mineral (vermiculite) have been tested for their effectiveness in removing Cr from tannery effluent through batch and column experiments. The adsorption capacities of the substrates were also evaluated using isotherm tests and computing distribution co-efficient. The sawdust exhibited a higher adsorption capacity (k = 1482 mgkg(-1)), followed by coirpith (k = 159 mgkg(-1)). The biosorbent and mineral vermiculite in columns were found very effective in removing Cr from tannery effluent. About 94% removal of Cr was achieved by a column of coirpith, and equally (93%) by a column containing a mixture of coirpith and vermiculite. This study showed that biological wastes are potential adsorbents of Cr, which could be successfully used to reduce the Cr concentrations in tannery effluent.
15476307	To estimate the preventive potential of Japanese rice bran (Oryza sativa japonica) against the oxygen radical-related chronic diseases such as cardio-vascular diseases and cancer, antioxidative and antigenotoxic activities of the rice bran extracts were analyzed by using assay systems for lipid peroxidation and genotoxin-induced umu gene expression. When effects of the rice bran extracts under different extraction conditions on hydroperoxide generation from auto-oxidized linoleic acid were examined using aluminum chloride method, the water extract showed strong antioxidant activity, but the methanol and acetone extracts did not exhibit significant activity. The water extract of rice bran was divided into the ethanol-precipitable (EP) and supernatant fractions, and EP fraction showed the dominant antioxidant activity, but the supernatant fraction did not exhibit significant antioxidant activity. When the effect of EP fraction on umu C gene expression in SOS response associated with DNA damage in Salmonella typhimurium (TA 1535/pSK 1002) induced by 3-amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-1) was analyzed, it showed a dose-dependent suppressive activity against Trp-P-1-induced umu C gene expression. The bio-chemical analysis of EP fraction indicates that the major antioxidative and antigenotoxic activity of EP fraction is associated with a proteinous component with the molecular weight of more than 30 KDa. As a possible active principle for the antioxidative and antigenotoxic activity in EP fraction, the strong activity of an oxygen radical-scavenging enzyme, peroxidase was detected, and the purified horseradish peroxidase also caused the similar antioxidative and antigenotoxic activities. The significance of this finding is discussed from the viewpoint of the preventive role of rice bran against oxygen radical-related chronic diseases.
15476737	Some recent research suggests that environmental exposure to cadmium, even at low levels, may increase the risk of osteoporosis, and that the bone demineralization is not just a secondary effect of renal dysfunction induced by high doses of cadmium as previously reported. To investigate the effect of exposure to cadmium at a level insufficient to induce kidney damage on bone mineral density (BMD) and bone metabolism, we conducted health examinations on 1380 female farmers from five districts in Japan who consumed rice contaminated by low-to-moderate levels of cadmium. We collected peripheral blood and urine samples and medical and nutritional information, and measured forearm BMD. Analysis of the data for subjects grouped by urinary cadmium level and age-related menstrual status suggested that cadmium accelerates both the increase of urinary calcium excretion around the time of menopause and the subsequent decrease in bone density after menopause. However, multivariate analyses showed no significant contribution of cadmium to bone density or urinary calcium excretion, indicating that the results mentioned above were confounded by other factors. These results indicate that environmental exposure to cadmium at levels insufficient to induce renal dysfunction does not increase the risk of osteoporosis, strongly supporting the established explanation for bone injury induced by cadmium as a secondary effect.
15476773	Silica-incorporated aluminum (RHA-Al) was synthesized from rice husk ash (RHA) using the sol-gel technique. RHA-Al was calcined at 500 degrees C for 5 h to yield RHA-Al(C). The ratio of silica to alumina was found to be 4:1. The BET analysis of RHA-Al(C) showed an increase in total pore volume and specific surface area compared to RHA-Al. SEM and XRD showed that RHA-Al and RHA-Al(C) were composed of microcrystals and the surface of both samples had a porous structure. Adsorption studies of palmytic acid on RHA-Al and RHA-Al(C) at 30, 40, and 50 degrees C conformed to the Langmuir isotherm. The equilibrium parameter, R, revealed that both are good adsorbents for palmytic acid. The Gibbs free energy of adsorption, DeltaG(ads)(0), was determined to be between -21.0 and -26.0 kJ mol(-1). DeltaH(ads)(0) and DeltaS(ads)(0) for RHA-Al were found to be 26.2 kJ mol(-1) and 158 J mol(-1), respectively. Corresponding values for RHA-Al(C) were 31.7 kJ mol(-1) and 178 J mol(-1). The adsorption of fatty acid on RHA-Al and RHA-Al(C) was an endothermic process, which occurred spontaneously. An FTIR study on the adsorbed material was used to determine the possible adsorbed complex on the surface of the adsorbent.
15478614	The thermo-sensitive point and the thermo-sensitive stage for fertility alteration in the thermo-sensitive genic male sterile (TGMS) line Annong S-1 were studied. In nature environment and green house,the leaf, root and young panicle were treated by low and high temperature respectively. In total, 8 treatments were carried out. Results indicated that during the thermo-sensitive stage of fertility alteration, in high temperature environmental conditions, the low temperature treatment in the root did not significantly induce Annong S-1 to be fertile, while the low temperature treatment in young panicle obviously induced Annong S-1 to be fertile. Therefore, the thermo-sensitive point of Annong S-1 is the young panicle. The stage of fertility alteration was also investigated. Results indicated that alteration occurred in the phase from the formation of pollen mother cell to the tetrad of miosis. aprt gene is related the male sterility. The expression of aprt gene in root,young panicle and leaf were investigated by RT-PCR respectively. In young panicle, the expression of aprt gene was greatly down regulated by high temperature, while in root and leaf the expressions have no great changes. These data show that the young panicle is sensitive to temperature change. The result also supported that the young panicle is the thermo-sensitive point of Annong S-1 in the fertility alteration. These conclusions can be used to direct in hybrid rice seed production.
15478615	Iron deficiency is the most widespread micronutrient deficiency world-wild, and is estimated to affect about 30% of the world population. To increase the iron content of rice in Chinese, the 764 bp cDNA of ferritin gene was cloned from soybean (Phaseolus limensis), and constructed between the 1 353 bp rice glutelin GluB-1 promoter and NOS terminator in a binary vector pCAMIBA1301. The constructed pYF1067 vector was introduced into Agrobacterium strain EHA105, and used for transformation of the primary callus derived from immature embryos of a high-yielding rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) variety Wuxiangjin 9. Under the selection on hygromycin-containing medium, seventeen independent transgenic rice lines, total more than 80 transgenic plants, were finally regenerated, and most of these transgenic rice plants grew normally. PCR and Southern blot analysis of total DNA from primary transformants confirmed that one to three copies of the transgenes integrated into the genome of most of the transgenic plants, and they could be stably transmitted into the progeny of the transgenic rice. Northern blot analysis showed that the ferritin gene could specifically express in the endosperm of transgenic rice with high level, while no or low expression in leaves. The expression level varied among different independent transgenic rice plants. There was a significant effect of the high-expression of ferritin on the increased iron content in transgenic rice, the iron content in the milling rice of transgenic rice was up to 64% higher than that of the untransformed wild-type plant, whereas no significant alteration of the zinc level occurred between these two type rice plants.
15479023	Headspace components from rice and agar with (experimental) and without (control) inoculation with a Monascus spp. were investigated. Kinetics studies were carried out. Using rice as a substrate, 10 and 19 compounds were found for the control and the experimental groups, respectively, at day 14. Experimental group compounds were composed mainly of alcohols, ketones, and esters, whereas control group compounds were composed of aldehydes and ketones. With agar as a substrate, only five and three components were found in the control and experimental groups, respectively. Five alcohols, four esters, two ketones, and one furan with odor activity values (OAV) >1 dominated the overall flavor of the product. With liquid inoculation, the first six components with high OAVs were in the following order: 3-methyl-1-butanol (17) > ethanol (14) > ethyl acetate (10) > 2-methyl-1-propanol (15) > ethyl butanoate (11) > 3-methylbutyl acetate (13). Kinetic studies showed that most compounds reached their maximum concentrations at 10-12 days. Many compounds identified in the model red rice were reported in commercial red sufus, and several appeared to contribute solely by red rice.
15479249	Sites in the West Siberian peat bog 'Bakchar' were acidic (pH 4.2-4.8), low in nutrients, and emitted CH4 at rates of 0.2-1.5 mmol m(-2) h(-1). The vertical profile of delta13CH4 and delta13CO2 dissolved in the porewater indicated increasing isotope fractionation and thus increasing contribution of H2/CO2-dependent methanogenesis with depth. The anaerobic microbial community at 30-50 cm below the water table produced CH4 with optimum activity at 20-25 degrees C and pH 5.0-5.5 respectively. Inhibition of methanogenesis with 2-bromo-ethane sulphonate showed that acetate, phenyl acetate, phenyl propionate and caproate were important intermediates in the degradation pathway of organic matter to CH4. Further degradation of these intermediates indicated that 62-72% of the CH4 was ultimately derived from acetate, the remainder from H2/CO2. Turnover times of [2-14C]acetate were on the order of 2 days (15, 25 degrees C) and accounted for 60-65% of total CH4 production. Conversion of 14CO2 to 14CH4 accounted for 35-43% of total CH4 production. These results showed that acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis operated closely at a ratio of approximately 2 : 1 irrespective of the incubation temperature (4, 15 and 25 degrees C). The composition of the archaeal community was determined in the peat samples by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis and sequencing of amplified SSU rRNA gene fragments, and showed that members of Methanomicrobiaceae, Methanosarcinaceae and Rice cluster II (RC-II) were present. Other, presumably non-methanogenic archaeal clusters (group III, RC-IV, RC-V, RC-VI) were also detected. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) showed that the number of Bacteria decreased (from 24 x 10(7) to 4 x 10(7) cells per gram peat) with depth (from 5 to 55 cm below the water table), whereas the numbers of Archaea slightly increased (from 1 x 10(7) to 2 x 10(7) cells per gram peat). Methanosarcina spp. accounted for about half of the archaeal cells. Our results show that both hydrogenotrophic and acetoclastic methanogenesis are an integral part of the CH4-producing pathway in acidic peat and were represented by appropriate methanogenic populations.
15480535	Nucleotide variation in the alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh1) locus region of the wild rice Oryza rufipogon and its related species was analysed to clarify the maintenance mechanism of DNA variation in Oryza species. The estimated nucleotide diversity in the Adh1 locus region of O. rufipogon was 0.002, which was one of the lowest values detected in nuclear loci of plant species investigated so far. Tests of neutrality detected significantly negative deviation from the neutral mutation model for the coding region, especially for replacement sites. When each of the ADH1 domains was considered, significance was detected only for the catalytic domain 1. These results suggest purifying selection in the Adh1 coding region. In the phylogenetic tree of Oryza species based on Adh1 variation, cultivated rice O. sativa subspp. japonica and indica were included in the cluster of O. rufipogon. The genetic distance of the Adh1 region between O. rufipogon and O. sativa was as low as the nucleotide diversity of O. rufipogon. These results imply that O. rufipogon and O. sativa cannot be classified based on the nucleotide variation of Adh1. No replacement divergence between O. rufipogon and the other three A-genome species (O. glumaepatula, O. barthii and O. meridionalis) were detected, indicating that ADH1 is conserved in the A-genome species. On the other hand, between O. rufipogon and the E-genome species O. australiensis, replacement changes were detected only in the catalytic domain 1. The difference in replacement substitutions between the A- and E-genome species may be related to adaptive changes in the ADH1 domains, reflecting environmental differences where the species encounter anaerobic stress.
15480789	Short periods of water deprivation can stimulate the growth of seminal and lateral roots in rice, and inhibit the emergence of adventitious roots. Identification of genes in the different tissues that respond to a water deficit may help us to understand the mechanism underlying root growth under conditions when water is scarce. cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis was used to profile gene expression upon imposition of water deficit in three types of root tissue from the upland rice variety Azucena: seminal root tips, lateral root zones and adventitious root primordial zones. In all, 121 unique transcript-derived fragments (TDFs) were cloned, and Northern analysis was carried out for 30 TDFs to confirm their expression patterns. Sixty-six TDFs were differentially expressed in all three root samples. Four (AC2, D6, L22 and T23) were up-regulated by water deficit in seminal root tips and lateral root zones, and down-regulated in adventitious root primordial zones, an expression pattern which reflects the phenotypic changes observed in the different root sectors. In contrast, T17 and T37 showed the opposite expression pattern in Azucena: up-regulation in adventitious roots and repression in the other two zones. Functions could be assigned to five of these six TDFs on the basis of homology: they encode an expansin (T37), a fruit-ripening protein similar to ASR (T23), submergence-induced protein 2A (T17), a dehydrin (D6) and a 9- cis -epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase1 (L22), respectively. AC2 did not show a significant match to any known gene. Northern analysis showed that these six clones exhibited expression patterns that differed between the two cultivars tested (Azucena and the lowland variety IR1552) with respect to regulation by water limitation. Furthermore, T17, T37, D6 and T23 mapped within intervals known to contain QTLs (quantitative trait loci) for root growth in rice under water deficit. These genes may regulate or co-regulate the growth and development of the three root zones in a tissue-specific manner, and may play a role in the processes that underlie the early changes in root architecture under conditions of water deprivation.
15480887	Plants alter their gene expression patterns in response to drought. Sometimes these transcriptional changes are successful adaptations leading to tolerance, while in other instances the plant ultimately fails to adapt to the stress and is labeled as sensitive to that condition. We measured the expression of approximately half of the genes in rice (approximately 21,000) in phenotypically divergent accessions and their transgressive segregants to associate stress-regulated gene expression changes with quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for osmotic adjustment (OA, a trait associated with drought tolerance). Among the parental lines, a total of 662 transcripts were differentially expressed. Only 12 genes were induced in the low OA parent, CT9993, at moderate dehydration stress levels while over 200 genes were induced in the high OA parent, IR62266. The high and low OA parents had almost entirely different transcriptional responses to dehydration stress suggesting a complete absence of an appropriate response rather than a slower response in CT9993. Sixty-nine genes were up-regulated in all the high OA lines and nine of those genes were not induced in any of the low OA lines. The annotation of four of those genes, sucrose synthase, a pore protein, a heat shock and an LEA protein, suggests a role in maintaining high OA and membrane stability. Of the 3,954-probe sets that correspond to the QTL intervals, very few had a differential expression pattern between the high OA and low OA lines that suggest a role leading to the phenotypic variation. However, several promising candidates were identified for each of the five QTL including a snRNP auxiliary factor, a LEA protein, a protein phosphatase 2C and a Sar1 homolog.
15481538	There are at least ten transcriptional trs-like genes in rice that have been confirmed by RT - PCR and sequencing, based on the annotation results of rice genome and homologous search. These ten genes correspond to six of the ten known subunits of TRAPP complex in yeast. Four pairs of them are duplicates while the other two are unique according to the known rice genomic sequences. All of the ten genes are constitutively expressed in rice tissues and share phylogenetic homology to some extent with other eukaryotic trs-like genes in their gene structures and protein sequences.
15481539	The ratio of purple line: no-purple line(13:3) was observed in six different F2 populations produced by crossing between parents with purple line and no-purple line in coleoptile. The backcross of XNA//XNA/ 21A150 (XNA, no-purple line and CMS, as the recurrent parent) resulted in a ratio of 1:1 (purple line: no-purple line). Genetic analysis showed that the expression of rice coleoptile purple line was influenced by two genes, inhibiting gene I and anti-inhibiting gene Ai(t). I gene inhibits P gene of C_A_P_ system and Ai(t) inhibits / gene, respectively. The gene pools of Ai(t) ai(t) and ai(t) ai(t) were constructed with BF1 of XNA//XNA/21A150. SSR analysis indicated that Ai(t) gene was linked with the markers of RM335, RM295, RM287 and RM21 and the genetic distance from Ai(t) to these four markers were 2.8 cM, 10.2 cM, 13.9 cM, 26.1 cM, respectively.
15481540	Transgenic lines (GC-1) carrying a senescence-inhibition cheimeric gene, IPT (isopentenyl transferase) gene, CBB23, a isogenic lines carrying Xa23 gene for resistance to bacterial blight, and Hexi15, a commercial cultivar showing high resistance to blast disease, were used as donors to pyramid IPT gene and Xa23 by marker-assisted selection (MAS). Seventeen BC1F1 plants pyramiding Xa23 gene and IPT genes were obtained from three multi-cross combinations. Then, the plants carrying Xa23 and IPT genes were crossed with parental lines of two-line hybrid rice, such as 9311, E32, Pei' ai 64S and W9834S. The progenies were backcrossed the acceptor parents. A total of 17 plants carrying Xa23 and IPT genes were detected by PCR, disease resistance identification and analysis of CTK contents of in the four combinations of "(9311///Hexi15/CBB23// GC-1) x 9311", "(E32///Hexi15/CBB23//GC-1) x E32", "(Pei'ai 64S///Hexi15/CBB23//GC-1) x Pei' ai 64S" and "(GC-1/CBB23//W9834S/Hexi15) x W9834S". These plants showed resistance to blast disease by inoculating test using 21 the lines of Pyricularia grisea from Northern China. Six plants of BC2F1 pyramiding Xa23 and IPT genes were further obtained in the combinations of "[(9311///Hexi15/CBB23//GC-1) x 9311] x 9311", "[(E32///Hexi15/CBB23//GC-1) x E32] x E32". After backcrossed and self-crossed 1 approximately 2nd, the plants pyramiding Xa23 and IPT genes can be used in the program of hybrid rice breeding.
15481824	Chemical modification of the herbicide 1-[2-(benzothiazol-2-yl)isopropyl]-4-methyl-3-phenyl-5H-pyrrolin-2-one (MI-2826) has revealed a new oxazinone herbicide, 3-[2-(7-chlorobenzothiazol-2-yl)isopropyl]-2,3-dihydro-6-methyl-5-phenyl-4H-1,3-oxazin-4-one (MI-3069), for use in paddy fields. In comparing the phyototoxicity of the two herbicides to transplanted rice, the latter was superior to the former and kept the same predominant characteristic to control Echinochloa oryzicola Vasin for a long period of time owing to its long-lasting residual effect.
15483157	Granite fines, sand, rice hulls, long wheat straw, and wood shavings were compared as bedding for 60 female dairy calves. Growth, health, stress indices, and behavior of newly born calves, along with physical characteristics and bacterial counts of bedding, were evaluated for 42 d during August to October, 2002. Overall average daily gain and dry matter intake of calves did not differ due to bedding type, although during wk 2 calves housed on rice hulls had the greatest dry matter intake and those housed on wood shavings had the lowest. During wk 2, calves housed on granite fines and sand were treated more often for scours, and calves housed on long wheat straw received the fewest antibiotic treatments (week by bedding material interaction). Granite fines formed a harder surface than other bedding, and calves housed on granite fines scored the dirtiest. When bedding materials were evaluated, sand was scored to be the dirtiest, while pens bedded with rice hulls, long wheat straw, and wood shavings scored cleaner. Long wheat straw had the warmest surface temperature, and rice hulls and wood shavings were warmer than granite fines and sand. Serum cortisol, alpha(1)-acid glycoprotein, immunoglobulin G concentrations, and the neutrophil:lymphocyte ratio were not affected by bedding type. On d 0, coliform counts were greatest in rice hulls. After use, coliform counts were greatest in long wheat straw (week by bedding material interaction). On d 42, the concentration of ammonia at 10 cm above the bedding was lowest for long wheat straw. Growth performance of calves bedded for 42 d with 5 bedding types did not differ; however, the number of antibiotic treatments given for scours was greatest on granite fines and sand; coliform counts in the bedding were highest in rice hulls before use and in long wheat straw after 42 d of use.
15483755	Multiple rice body formation is an uncommon disorder which resembles synovial chondromatosis both radiologically and clinically. The clinical symptoms are usually non-specific. We report on a pathologically proven multiple rice body formation in both the left subacromial-subdeltoid bursa and knee joint in a 4-year-old girl.
15486823	A taxonomic study was carried out on a bacterial strain designated as Jip2T isolated from a soil sample mixed with rotten rice straw. It was a Gram-negative, aerobic, motile, and rod-shaped bacterium. It grew well on nutrient agar medium and utilized a fairly narrow spectrum of carbon source. The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 65.3 mol%. The major ubiquinone was Q-8. The major fatty acids were branched fatty acids, especially large amounts of iso C15:0 and iso C17:1 w9c were detected in the cells grown on TSA agar for 24 h. Comparative 16S rDNA study showed a clear affiliation of this bacterium to the genus Rhodanobacter. The 16S rDNA sequence of strain Jip2T showed 96.4% sequence similarity to that of Rhodanobacter lindaniclasticus RP5575T. On the basis of phenotypic characteristics and 16S rDNA sequence analysis, strain Jip2T is clearly distinct from Rhodanobacter lindaniclasticus. We propose the name Rhodanobacter fulvus sp. nov. for strain Jip2T (=IAM 15025T=KCTC 12098T).
15487160
15487327	In order to evaluate the toxicological and carcinogenic effects of fumonisins, large amounts of fumonisins need to be purified, which requires optimal conditions for production in culture. Five strains of F. verticillioides were compared for their ability to produce fumonisins in solid and liquid media with and without the addition of methionine, a fumonisin precursor. Inoculations were made either with lyophilized cultures or a concentrated inoculum. Growth in liquid medium, measured by biomass, was directly correlated to total fumonisin production when a lyophilized inoculum was used. Fumonisin production was stimulated by the addition of 0.2% L-methionine to solid media for most strains. Levels ranged from 1500-3900 mg/kg in rice, and 2900-12500 mg/kg in maize cultures inoculated with lyophilized cultures; 200-4800 mg/kg in rice, and 1500-4200 mg/kg in maize cultures inoculated with concentrated inoculum. Strains that produced relatively high levels of fumonisins in solid media did not necessarily do so in liquid medium and vice versa. Total fumonisin levels in liquid medium ranged from 40-590 mg/l inoculated with lyophilized cultures and < 1-110 mg/l inoculated with concentrated inoculum, without adding the precursor. F. verticillioides strains therefore varied in their ability to produce fumonisins, and conditions for production need to be optimized individually for each strain.
15488465	Arabinoxylans in crop plants are the major sugar components of the cell walls, and UDP-xylose is a key substrate in the biosynthesis of xylans. In this study, the six putative UDP-D-glucuronic acid decarboxylase genes from rice (Oryza sativa UDP-xylose synthase; OsUXS) were cloned. Except for the soluble form of OsUXS3 (GenBank Accession No. \AB079064), the remaining five OsUXS enzymes contain a putative membrane-bound region. The six OsUXS genes were classified into three types by phylogenetic analysis and were expressed during the development of rice seeds. The HPLC retention times of the enzyme products and NMR data, indicate that the recombinant OsUXS2 enzyme catalyzes the conversion of UDP-D-glucuronic acid to UDP-D-xylose. Interestingly, the reactions catalyzed by the recombinant OsUXS2 and OsUXS3 enzymes were inhibited by NADP+, and accelerated by NADPH. The catalytic activities of the recombinant OsUXS2 and OsUXS3 enzymes were strongly inhibited by UDP, UTP, TDP, and TTP. The expression levels of OsUXS genes changed in different manners during the development of rice seeds, suggesting that each corresponding OsUXS enzyme plays a significant role in rice seed development at a certain stage. In the present study, we report that the UXS2-type enzyme of rice is not only characterized for the first time but also show significant findings involved in the gene expression of OsUXSs.
15488571	The isotope dilution technique was applied for the analysis of new polybrominated diphenylethers (PBDEs) calibration standard (both labeled and non-labeled) using high-resolution gas chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRGC-HRMS). The relative response factor (RRF) and relative standard deviation (RSD) for new calibration standard in Finnigan Thermo Electron (MAT-95XL) and Micromass (Autospec Ultima) were more or less identical with mean RRF (0.9882), RSD (0.0865) and CV% of (8.75). The results also revealed for DeBDE-209 quantification; labeled DeBDE-209 is essential. Furthermore, we recommend on column injection technique with a thin film instead of splitless injection in order to reduce the thermal degradation of DeBDE-209 and formation of octabromodibenzofurans (OBDF). Besides, analysis of human blood (n = 156) of FEBRA-intake and non-FEBRA-intake individuals elucidated frequent detection of eighteen PBDE congeners. The average PBDE concentrations in non-FEBRA intake and FEBRA-intake humans were 6000-11,000 (mean: 8400) and 5400-15,000 (mean: 9900) respectively on pg/g fat basis. Although FEBRA-intake individuals showed slightly greater PBDEs, computer-normalized concentrations of TeBDE-47 corroborate FEBRA-intake individual from four family showed reduced concentrations. The contamination profiles of PBDEs varied in between family, gender as well as geography. International comparison with predominant PBDE congener (TeBDE-47) prevailed lower levels in Japan when compared to Korea, Germany and USA nevertheless, congener specific profiles were different which is in accordance with different technical PBDE usage in between countries.
15488898	The effects of red yeast rice extracts (RE) on adipocyte differentiation of 3T3-L1 cells were studied. RE were extracted from embryonic rice fermented with red yeast (Monascus ruber). These extracts significantly decreased glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH) activity and lipid accumulation, a marker of adipogenesis, in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, mRNA expression levels of both CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) alpha and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma, the key adipogenic transcription factors, were markedly decreased by RE. RE also inhibited the expression of PPARgamma at protein levels. RE decreased significantly gene expression of adipocyte fatty acid binding protein (aP2) and leptin, which are adipogenic marker proteins and C/EBPalpha and PPARgamma target genes. These results suggest that the inhibitory effect of RE on adipocyte differentiation might be mediated through the down-regulated expression of adipogenic transcription factors and other specific genes.
15488931	The use of biomass sorbents, which are less expensive and more biodegradable than synthetic sorbents, for oil removal from gas station runoff was investigated. A bench-scale flume experiment was conducted to evaluate the oil removal and retention capabilities of the biomass sorbents which included kapok fiber, cattail fiber, Salvinia sp., wood chip, rice husk, coconut husk, and bagasse. Polyester fiber, a commercial synthetic sorbent, was also experimented for comparison purpose. Oil sorption and desorption tests were performed at a water flow rate of 20 lmin-1. In the oil sorption tests, a 50 mgl(-1) of used engine oil-water mixture was synthesized to simulate the gas station runoff. The mass of oil sorbed for all sorbents, except coconut husk and bagasse, was greater than 70%. Cattail fiber and polyester fiber were the sorbents that provided the least average effluent oil concentrations. Oil selectivity (hydrophobic properties) and physical characteristics of the sorbents are the two main factors that influence the oil sorption capability. The used sorbents from the sorption tests were employed in the desorption tests. Results indicated that oil leached out of all the sorbents tested. Polyester fiber released the highest amount of oil, approximately 4% (mass basis) of the oil sorbed.
15489210	The modifying effects of administering an ethyl acetate extract of Kurosu (EK), a vinegar made from unpolished rice, in drinking water on the development of azoxymethane (AOM)-induced colon carcinogenesis were investigated in male F344 rats. Animals were given 2 weekly subcutaneous injections of AOM (20 mg/kg body weight). They also received drinking water containing 0%, 0.05%, or 0.1% EK for 35 wk, starting 1 wk after the last dosing of AOM. EK administration significantly inhibited the incidence and multiplicity of colon adenocarcinoma (P < 0.05), compared with those in the AOM alone group. These findings suggest that EK may be effective for inhibiting colon carcinogenesis.
15489509	Joint mapping for multiple quantitative traits has shed new light on genetic mapping by pinpointing pleiotropic effects and close linkage. Joint mapping also can improve statistical power of QTL detection. However, such a joint mapping procedure has not been available for discrete traits. Most disease resistance traits are measured as one or more discrete characters. These discrete characters are often correlated. Joint mapping for multiple binary disease traits may provide an opportunity to explore pleiotropic effects and increase the statistical power of detecting disease loci. We develop a maximum-likelihood method for mapping multiple binary traits. We postulate a set of multivariate normal disease liabilities, each contributing to the phenotypic variance of one disease trait. The underlying liabilities are linked to the binary phenotypes through some underlying thresholds. The new method actually maps loci for the variation of multivariate normal liabilities. As a result, we are able to take advantage of existing methods of joint mapping for quantitative traits. We treat the multivariate liabilities as missing values so that an expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm can be applied here. We also extend the method to joint mapping for both discrete and continuous traits. Efficiency of the method is demonstrated using simulated data. We also apply the new method to a set of real data and detect several loci responsible for blast resistance in rice.
15490102	A population of recombinant inbred rice lines from a cross between the upland japonica cultivar Azucena and the upland indica cultivar Bala was evaluated in a series of upland field experiments. Water stress was imposed during the reproductive stage by managed irrigation during the dry season, while control treatments were maintained in aerobic, well-irrigated conditions. Water deficit resulted in a yield reduction of 17 to 50%. The genetic correlation between stress and control yields was quite high when stress was mild, and the heritability of yield was similar in stress and control treatments across both years of this study. Genetic correlations between secondary traits such as leaf rolling and drying and yield under stress varied from high (leaf drying) to insignificant (leaf rolling). Lines with superior yield tended to have fewer panicles and larger grain size than the high-yielding parent, Bala, even though the panicle number was positively correlated with yield and the thousand-grain weight was not associated with yield for the population as a whole. Analysis of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for yield and yield components allowed the identification of 31 regions associated with growth or yield components. Superior alleles came from either parent. Several of the regions identified had also been reported for root mass at depth or maximum root length in this population in other studies made under controlled environments, and for leaf drying (LD) in field studies. However, the direction of the effect of QTLs was not consistent, which indicates that there was not necessarily a causal relationship between these secondary traits and performance. We conclude that mapping populations can provide novel insights on the actual relationships between yield components and secondary traits in stress and control environments and can allow identification of significant QTLs for yield components under drought stress.
15490273	The relation between dietary habits and the risk of ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligaments of the spine (OPLL) was investigated in a case-control study conducted in Japan from 1998 to 2001. Prevalent OPLL cases (n = 69) were identified and individually matched by age and sex with community controls (n = 138) randomly selected from the general population in Hokkaido. A self-administered food-frequency questionnaire was used to assess habitual dietary intake. The odds ratio (OR) and its 95% confidence interval (CI) were estimated, using conditional logistic regression models to compute the OR adjusted for a history of diabetes mellitus. We found that frequent consumption of pickles (salted products) was significantly associated with an increased risk of OPLL, with an adjusted OR of 1.6 (95% CI, 1.1 to 2.2). The adjusted OR for nondaily consumers of rice was 3.0 (95% CI, 2.4 to 3.7). Frequent consumption of chicken (adjusted OR, 0.5; 95% CI, 0.3 to 0.98) and soy foods (adjusted OR, 0.4; 95% CI, 0.2 to 0.7) was significantly associated with a decreased risk of OPLL. Our findings suggest that dietary habits may constitute independent risk factors for OPLL. Further studies will be needed to prospectively determine the relationship between dietary habits and OPLL risk.
15490295	A novel method, based on quantitative PCR and amplified fragment length polymorphism was applied to the analysis of high-coverage gene expression profiles during the development of rice seeds. This represents the first report of the application of this method to plants, which permitted the detection and analysis of approximately 70% of all the genes that are expressed in rice. The method was used to compare gene expression at different developmental stages, subspecies or cultivars, and phyletic lines to identify genes of interest through differences in their level of expression. Using this approach, even novel anonymous genes could be detected. Examples of these include the soluble starch synthase (SS) II-I and the rice branching enzyme 4 (rbe4) genes in the starch synthesis pathway. A profiling database was compiled and the results compared with public data on full-length cDNA sequences of rice. The method enables candidate novel genes to be immediately identified among the large numbers of genes that are expressed during the development of rice seeds. Our results will contribute to a better understanding of comparative transcriptomics in all plant species.
15490878	Seedling vigor is important for optimum stand establishment in rice cropping. In this paper,a set of 264 F12 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived by single seed descent from a cross between Lemont (japonica) and Teqing (indica) was phenotyped for three seedling vigor related traits, including seed germination rate (GR), seedling shoot length and dry weight by the rolled paper towel tests. The phenotype data and a linkage map consisting of 198 DNA markers were combined to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) for seedling vigor by using a computer program QTLMapper1.0. A total of 13 putative main-effect QTL were detected. All of these QTL had much smaller effects on the traits with a mean R2 of 6.2%, ranging from 2.9% to 12.7%. As for digenic interaction, 18 pairs of epistatic loci with R2 > or = 5% were resolved with a mean R2 of 6.9% ,ranging from 5.1% to 11.8%, which was slightly larger than that of the main-effect QTL identified for the traits. The majority of the main-effect and epistatic loci detected for seedling vigor related traits were clustered in a few chromosome regions. Together, seven such chromosome regions (CRs), each with three or more seedling vigor main-effect and epistatic loci, were found to be highly associated with seedling vigor. These CRs can be classified into three types, i.e. M-CRs, E-CRs and ME-CRs. For some CRs just like CR(SV-6), the QTL within one CR were found to interact simultaneously with QTL within more than one other CRs to affect different seedling vigor related traits. The above results revealed that seedling vigor in rice is controlled by many loci, most of which have relatively small effects. Comparatively, epistasis as a genetic factor would be more important than main-effects of QTL for seedling vigor in rice. Nevertheless, the effects of the QTL are still large enough to be detected and in fact several chromosome regions were found to be highly associated with seedling vigor in very different populations as compared with previous studies. Molecular tagging of favorable alleles and marker-aided selection strategy may, therefore, be a promising approach to the improvement of rice seedling vigor.
15490879	Polyploid strain 149-B, that was generated naturally from a rice twin-seedling population SAR-2, has been determined as triploid (2n = 36). It was then used as the female parent crossing with a normal diploid variety SH R363. From its F2 generation we obtained a genetic-stable population. To prove the uniformity of such a population, SSR markers were used to survey the F2 individual plants. The results showed that F2 individuals carried only one parental molecular marker at each polymorphic locus, and their genotypes were identical with F1 progeny. Based on the above experiments, we consider that this F2 population is definitely an early-generation stable population. Meanwhile, we discussed the possible mechanism of the special phenomenon as well.
15490880	Rice blast caused by Pyricularia grisea is the most destructive disease in Yunnan Plateau, China. In order to elucidate the relationship between genetic lineage and pathotype of P. grisea of Yunnan Plateau as well as the variability of the fungus at DNA level,the repetitive element-based PCR (rep-PCR) of Pot2, an element found in approximately 100 copies in the fungus genome,was exploited. Two hundred and thirty-six isolates of P. grisea collected from 15 main rice-growing counties of Yunnan Plateau were fingerprinted by using rep-PCR. A linkage graph of the rep-PCR fingerprints from 134 representative isolates was generated using an unweighted pair-grouped average program (UPGMA) of the STATISTICAL 5.0 software. The isolates were classified into 8 genetic lineages (G1 approximately G8) at the level of 1.75 genetic linkage distance, of which the G1, G2 and G4 were the dominant lineages. The isolates in a certain area generally belonged to one correspondent genetic lineage and the isolates from the same plot and host rice variety mostly shared one linkage group though different genetic lineages within one lesion. Furthermore, 29 isolates representing the eight genetic lineages were inoculated on 33 rice cultivars of Yunnan at the stage of 3 approximately 4 leaves in greenhouse. The isolates were divided into 6 pathotype groups (P1 approximately P6) according to its compatibility, which demonstrated that some isolates of one genetic lineage sharing two or three pathotype groups, alternatively, one or four pathotype groups. The isolates from each genetic lineage, however, may share one pathotype group such as P2. The preliminary results implicated that the relationship between genetic lineages and pathotype groups of P. grisea in Yunnan Plateau was complicated rather than simple. On the other hand,2 rice cultivars including HeXi 16 and JingGuo 92 were resistant to the 29 isolates but YunJing 20 and HeXi 30 both susceptible to all of them, which was helpful for deploying the blast-resistant genes in rice production of Yunnan Plateau. Therefore, the rice blast-resistance spectrum of the tentative new rice cultivars should be evaluated before its release considering the blast-resistant rice breeding and the practice of rice production in Yunnan Plateau.
15491662	Natural and environmental-friendly disposal of wastewater sludge is a great concern. Recently, biological treatment has played prominent roles in bioremediation of complex hydrocarbon- rich contaminants. Composting is quite an old biological-based process that is being practiced but it could not create a great impact in the minds of concerned researchers. The present study was conducted to evaluate the feasibility of the solid-state bioconversion (SSB) processes in the biodegradation of wastewater sludge by exploiting this promising technique to rejuvenate the conventional process. The Indah Water Konsortium (IWK) domestic wastewater treatment plant (DWTP) sludge was considered for evaluation of SSB by monitoring the microbial growth and its subsequent roles in biodegradation under two conditions: (i) flask (F) and (ii) composting bin (CB) cultures. Sterile and semi-sterile environments were allowed in the F and the CB, respectively, using two mixed fungal cultures, Trichoderma harzianum with Phanerochaete chrysosporium 2094 (T/P) and T. harzianum with Mucor hiemalis (T/M) and two bulking materials, sawdust (SD) and rice straw (RS). The significant growth and multiplication of both the mixed fungal cultures were reflected in soluble protein, glucosamine and color intensity measurement of the water extract. The color intensity and pH of the water extract significantly increased and supported the higher growth of microbes and bioconversion. The most encouraging results of microbial growth and subsequent bioconversion were exhibited in the RS than the SD. A comparatively higher decrease of organic matter (OM) % and C/N ratio were attained in the CB than the F, which implied a higher bioconversion. But the measurement of soluble protein, glucosamine and color intensity exhibited higher values in the F than the CB. The final pH drop was higher in the CB than the F, which implied that a higher nitrification occurred in the CB associated with a higher release of H+ ions. Both the mixed cultures performed almost equal roles in all cases except the changes in moisture content.
15491834	This study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of different organic and inorganic amendments on nutrient (C, N and P) distribution in water-stable aggregates (WSA) of a degraded tropical Ultisol at Nsukka in southern Nigeria. The treatments were control (C), inorganic fertilizer (F) (N-P-K, 12-12-17), rice-mill wastes (RW), RW + F, poultry manure (PM) and RW + PM. These were arranged in a randomized complete block design (RCBD) with four replications. At 0, 3, 6 and 12 months after application of the amendments, topsoil (0-20 cm) samples were collected from all the treatments, dried and separated into 4.75-2.0, 2.0-1.0, 1.0-0.5, 0.50-0.25 and <0.25 mm aggregates classes by wet sieving. The mesoaggregates fraction (1.0-0.50 mm) made up the highest percentage of the whole soil irrespective of the treatments. From the sixth month, the treatments generally reduced the proportion of these mesoaggregates as well as those of the microaggregates (<0.25 mm diameter) while increasing those of the other sizes. The largest (>2.0 mm) and the smallest (<0.25 mm) aggregates were preferentially enriched in C and N relative to the 2.0-0.25 mm aggregates in all the treatments, whereas P distribution within the aggregates was random. There was a low, but significant correlation between organic carbon and mean-weight diameter (MWD) of the aggregates. The correlation between C and N within the aggregates was also positive (r = 0.917) and highly significant (P < 0.01). The implication of these results for management of these soils is discussed.
15491922	Heterotrimeric G proteins have been implicated in a wide range of plant processes. These include responses to hormones, drought, and pathogens, and developmental events such as lateral root formation, hypocotyl elongation, hook opening, leaf expansion, and silique development. Results and concepts emerging from recent phenotypic analyses of G-protein component mutants in Arabidopsis and rice are adding to our understanding of G-protein mechanisms and functions in higher plants.
15491923	The first comprehensive comparison of gene content between higher plant species provided the unexpected conclusions that rice contained about twice as many genes as Arabidopsis, and that about half of the rice genes had no obvious homologs in any other organism. Our subsequent analyses indicate that most of these "extra, novel" rice genes are mis-annotated segments of transposable elements, especially retrotransposons. Aggressive annotation of a randomly selected subset of the rice genome suggests that the gene number is less than 40000. The five fantasies of automated plant gene discovery are described and a protocol is provided to minimize (or at least predict) the inaccuracy of future plant genome annotations.
15492867	The effective microorganism (EM-X) fermentation extract is derived from rice bran and seaweed extract. It has been shown to possess anti-oxidation activity both in vitro and in vivo. To our knowledge, the possible in vitro anti-cancer potential of EM-X has not been demonstrated. Here we showed that the double concentrate of EM-X (EM-X2) at concentrations of 20-30% by volume, had growth inhibitory activity on MDA-MB231 breast cancer cell line and K-562 chronic myelogenous leukaemia cell lines by [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2-H-tetrazolium, inner salt] (MTS) assay. No characteristic features of apoptosis could be observed morphologically. Colony formation assay illustrated that both MDA-MB231 breast cancer and K-562 CML cells lost part of their regeneration potential after treatment with EM-X2 at 30% concentration by volume for 24 h. At these concentrations, only slight growth inhibitory effect was observed in 293 human kidney fibroblast cells and in three non-malignant bone marrows. Intracellular nitro blue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction assay showed that both MDA-MB231 breast cancer and K-562 CML cells had about 30% reduction of intracellular NBT after incubation with 30% of EM-X2. Increased activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) could be detected from both MDA-MB231 and K-562 cell lines after incubating with 30% of EM-X2. Taken together, our data suggested that EM-X could inhibit growth and reduce the regeneration potential of cancer cells, possibly through its antioxidation activity.
15493135	In the recently assembled genomes of rice Oryza sativa ssp. indica and japonica, we identified 564 and 519 tRNA genes, respectively. The modified wobble hypothesis, namely, at least 46 tRNA species must present in order to decode all 61 possible anticodons, is perfectly observed in both subspecies. Among the 46 tRNA species, indica and japonica have many identical ones in sequence. There are 18 rice tRNA species that have identical counterparts in Arabidopsis. In the indica superscaffold dataset, 384 5S rRNA genes, dozens of 17S and 5.8S rRNA genes and one 25S rRNA gene were discovered. The incompleteness of observed rRNA genes is mainly caused by the fact that the rRNA genes always exist as tandem arrays in heterochromatic regions that are not successfully sequenced in a whole-genome shotgun approach.
15493136	Paenibacillus polymyxa WY110, a plant growth-promoting bacteria strain isolated from rice rhizosphere could suppress the growth of various plant pathogens effectively. With (NH4)2SO4 fractional precipitation, DEAE-Sephadex A-50 chromatography and Sephacryl S-200 chromatography followed by tracks of fraction antagonistic assay and SDS-PAGE, an antifungal protein P2 with in vitro anti-Pyricularia oxyzae activity was isolated and purified. It was showed with antagonistic activity on PDA plates that the growth of Pyricularia oryzae was inhibited by 1.5 microg of P2 protein effectively. N-terminal amino acid residues analysis showed 24 amino acid sequence: H2N-Ala-Asn-Val-Phe-Trp-Glu-Pro-Leu-Ser-Tyr-Tyr-Asn-Pro-Ser-Thr-Trp-Gln-Lys-Ala-Asp-Gly-Tyr-Ser-Asn-. Using this amino acid sequence as a target, the similarity of P2 protein was searched with BlastP program on Internet. It was showed a high homology between the P2 protein and the precursors of beta-1, 3-1, 4-glucanases from Bacillus. The beta-1, 3-1, 4-glucanase activity of P2 protein was identified with the specific substrate lichenan. According to the N-terminal partial sequence of P2 protein and the C-terminal conserved sequence of beta-1, 3-1, 4-glucanase, the primers for both terminals were synthesized. Using the genomic DNA of WY110 as the template, the full-length sequence of the gene encoding P2 was amplified by high fidelity PCR, then cloned into pMD18-T vecter. Sequence analysis showed the 72 nucleotide sequence on 5'-end matched with the known 24 amino acid sequence on N-terminal of P2 protein. The sequence (GenBank Accession Number: AF284449) was 636 bp in length encoding 212 amino acids. Comparing with a beta-1, 3-1, 4-glucanase gene (gluB) from Paenibacillus polymyxa, the sequence homology for nucleotides and deduced amino acids were 84% and 88.7% respectively. The cloning of the gene encoding P2 protein would be a new potential objective gene for plant gene engineering.
15493137	Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and Inter-simple Sequence Repeat (ISSR) methods were used to detect the genetic diversity of 57 allelopathic rice accessions which were introduced from 10 countries or areas. A total of 12 RAPD primers and seven ISSR primers were indentified with polymorphism among the entries. For RAPD markers, 85 polymorphic bands were produced, percentage of polymorphic bands (PPB) were 69.4%. For ISSR marker, 34 polymorphic bands were generated, PPB were 53.0%. The result from the clustering analysis by UPGMA indicated that those accessions from the same geographical location were clustered into one group. It was also found that some rice accessions with higher allelopathic potential were clustered together, implying that the genes conferring allelopathy in those rice accessions might be isolocus. However, some rice accessions with different allelopathic potential clustered into the same group performed lower level of generic polymorphism which was attributed to oriented selection for other traits in breeding program. The estimates of correlation coefficient of RAPD and ISSR based on the genetic similarity matrices were significantly correlated.
15493143	In this paper, allelic variation and genetic diversity among geographies and growth habit types were studied by using 223 accessions of common wild rice primary core collection in Guangxi Province, with 34 SSR primers locating on 12 chromosomes of rice and 19 phenotypic traits. In the results, 24.91 alleles were detected per locus on average with a range from 7 to 48. Compared to the cultivated rice, the wild rice showed more allelic variations. The ratio of heterozygote of SSR locus was 32.01% on average, and it's range was 1.35% 81.31%. The frequency of heterozygote of SSR locus in Oryza rufipogon Griff was much higher than in Oryza sativa L. The geographical distribution of genetic diversity measured by SSR markers was not completely accordant with that by phenotypic traits. At DNA level, more wild rice individuals and higher genetic diversity were included within the area covering north latitude 22 degrees - 23 degrees and 23 degrees - 24 degrees (comprising Longan, Fusui, Yongning, Xiangzhou, Laibin, Xuanwu, Yulin and Guigang county), which formed the center of genetic diversity. But the center of genetic diversity at the phenotypic level located within north latitude 21 degrees - 22 degrees and 22 degrees - 23 degrees. Among the four growth habit types, the genetic diversity from high to low was found respectively in prostrate type, sloping type, slighting type, and erect type at both DNA and phenotypic levels.
15493473	Over 3000 rice plants with T-DNA carrying a Ds element were constructed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediation. Using inverse PCR methodology, 590 unique right flanking sequences of T-DNA (Ds) were retrieved from independent transformants and classified into six main types on the basis of the origin of filler DNA between the right border of T-DNA and flanking sequence of rice genome. Type I sequences were the most common and showed canonical integration that T-DNA right border was followed by rice genome sequence with or without filler DNA of no more than 50 bp, while type II sequences displayed a vector-genome combination that T-DNA right border was followed by a vector fragment and then connected with rice genome sequence. The location and distribution of 340 type I and II flanking sequences on the rice chromosome were determined using BLAST analysis. The 340 Ds insertions at an average interval of 0.8 megabase (Mb) constructed a basic framework of Ds starter points on whole rice chromosomes. The frequency of T-DNA (Ds) inserted into the exons of predicted genes on chromosome one was 21%. Knowledge of T-DNA (Ds) locations on chromosomes will prove to be a useful resource for isolating rice genes by Ds transposon tagging as these Ds insertions can be used as starting lines for further mutagenesis.
15493474	The responses of wheat Triticum aestivum, rice Oryza sativa, earthworms Eisenia foetida, and prawns Penaeus japonicus to combined acetochlor-Cu, Cd-Zn were studied in hydroponic and soil-culturing systems using the methods of ecotoxicology. In particular, systematically quantitative analyses were documented by field experiments. Results showed that ecotoxicological effects under the combined pollution were not only related to chemical properties of pollutants but also dependent on the concentration level of pollutants, in particular on the combination of concentrations of pollutants in ecosystems. Additionally, species of organisms, especially the type of ecosystem, determined the influences. To some extent, biological tissue targets attacked by pollutants were an important factor.
15494058	Extensive methylation of the Ubi1 promoter has been shown to be associated with transcriptional silencing and bialaphos herbicide sensitivity in several R(1) progeny derived from a transgenic rice line, JKA 52, containing multiple copies of the introduced genes (Kumpatla et al. 1997;Plant Physiol. 115, 361-373). All of the progeny from silenced R(1) lines were silenced, and a proportion (24%) of the R(2) seedlings from JKA 52-6, a non-silenced homozygous R(1) line, were found to be silenced. Several non-silenced (bialaphos-resistant) R(2) progeny derived from the selfed seed of JKA 52-6 were tested at various stages throughout the growth period and found to be resistant to bialaphos, indicating the absence of silencing. Five of these were investigated further to determine whether silencing could recur in subsequent generations. R(3) seedlings were raised from selfed R(2) seed and herbicide sensitivity was detected in 5-40% of the plants in three of the five lines. This silencing was accompanied by methylation of the Ubi1 promoter and the absence of steady-state bar mRNA. This recurrent onset of silencing and instability of expression associated with a transgene locus containing several repeated sequences is undesirable. The data strongly suggest that multi-generation molecular analysis should be undertaken for transgenic lines to be used for agricultural purposes and that lines containing methylated inserts should be carefully evaluated before being included in further breeding strategies.
1549458	In a rat study, an occlusive double-layer transparent hydrocolloid dressing, Duo-DERM, was compared with a rice paper dressing in the treatment of tympanic membrane perforation. The Duo-DERM dressing manifested better healing properties, and the healed membrane was histologically similar to spontaneously healed membrane, being generally thin with moderate connective tissue thickening. If this dressing is found to have good healing properties in clinical trials, it would mean a great saving in health care resources. The method is simple, inexpensive, and gives immediate improvement in hearing.
15495063	Oral rehydration solution (ORS) is used to treat dehydration caused by diarrheal diseases including cholera. Reduced osmolarity formulations are safe and more effective than standard ORS for treating non-cholera diarrhea. As cholera causes rapid electrolyte loss, it is important to know if these benefits are similar for people with cholera. To compare the safety and efficacy of reduced osmolarity oral rehydration solution (ORS) with standard ORS for treating diarrhea due to cholera. We searched the Cochrane Infectious Disease Group Specialized Register (January 2004), CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2004), MEDLINE (1966 to January 2004), EMBASE (1974 to January 2004), and LILACS (1982 to January 2004). We also contacted organizations and searched reference lists. Randomized controlled trials comparing reduced osmolarity ORS with standard ORS for treating adults and children with acute diarrhea due to cholera. Two reviewers independently applied eligibility criteria, assessed trial quality, and extracted data. We pooled binary data using relative risks (RR), continuous data using weighted mean difference (WMD) or the standardized mean difference (SMD), and presented the results with 95% confidence intervals (CI). For glucose-based reduced osmolarity ORS, seven trials (718 participants) met the inclusion criteria. Biochemical hyponatremia (serum sodium < 130 mmol/L) was more common with reduced osmolarity ORS (RR 1.67, CI 1.09 to 2.57; 465 participants, 4 trials); for severe biochemical hyponatremia (serum sodium < 125 mmol/L) this was not significant (RR 1.58, CI 0.62 to 4.04; 465 participants, 4 trials). No trials reported symptomatic hyponatremia or death. We found no statistically significant difference in the need for unscheduled intravenous infusion. Analyses separating children and adults showed no obvious trends. Two trials also examined rice-based ORS. In the reduced osmolarity group, duration of diarrhea was shorter (WMD -16.85 hours, CI -21.22 to -12.48; 102 participants, 2 trials). In people with cholera, reduced osmolarity ORS is associated with biochemical hyponatremia when compared with standard ORS, although there are similar benefits in terms of other outcomes. Although this risk does not appear to be accompanied by serious consequences, the total patient experience in existing trials is small. Under wider practice conditions, especially where patient monitoring is difficult, caution is warranted.
15496998	REFERENCE: Bleakley C, McDonough S, MacAuley D. The use of ice in the treatment of acute soft-tissue injury: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials. Am J Sport Med. 2004; 32:251-261. CLINICAL QUESTION: What is the clinical evidence base for cryotherapy use? DATA SOURCES: Studies were identified by using a computer-based literature search on a total of 8 databases: MEDLINE, Proquest, ISI Web of Science, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health (CINAHL) on Ovid, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (AMED) on Ovid, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Cochrane Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effectiveness, and Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (Central). This was supplemented with citation tracking of relevant primary and review articles. Search terms included surgery,orthopaedics,sports injury,soft tissue injury,sprains and strains,contusions,athletic injury,acute,compression, cryotherapy,ice,RICE, andcold. STUDY SELECTION: To be included in the review, each study had to fulfill the following conditions: be a randomized, controlled trial of human subjects; be published in English as a full paper; include patients recovering from acute soft tissue or orthopaedic surgical interventions who received cryotherapy in inpatient, outpatient, or home-based treatment, in isolation or in combination with placebo or other therapies; provide comparisons with no treatment, placebo, a different mode or protocol of cryotherapy, or other physiotherapeutic interventions; and have outcome measures that included function (subjective or objective), pain, swelling, or range of motion. DATA EXTRACTION: The study population, interventions, outcomes, follow-up, and reported results of the assessed trials were extracted and tabulated. The primary outcome measures were pain, swelling, and range of motion. Only 2 groups reported adequate data for return to normal function. All eligible articles were rated for methodologic quality using the PEDro scale. The PEDro scale is a checklist that examines the believability (internal validity) and the interpretability of trial quality. The 11-item checklist yields a maximum score of 10 if all criteria are satisfied. The intraclass correlation coefficient and kappa values are similar to those reported for 3 other frequently used quality scales (Chalmers Scale, Jadad Scale, and Maastricht List). Two reviewers graded the articles, a method that has been reported to be more reliable than one evaluator. MAIN RESULTS: Specific search criteria identified 55 articles for review, of which 22 were eligible randomized, controlled clinical trials. The articles' scores on the PEDro scale were low, ranging from 1 to 5, with an average score of 3.4. Five studies provided adequate information on the subjects' baseline data, and only 3 studies concealed allocation during subject recruitment. No studies blinded their therapist's administration of therapy, and just 1 study blinded subjects. Only 1 study included an intention-to-treat analysis. The average number of subjects in the studies was 66.7; however, only 1 group undertook a power analysis. The types of injuries varied widely (eg, acute or surgical). No authors investigated subjects with muscle contusions or strains, and only 5 groups studied subjects with acute ligament sprains. The remaining 17 groups examined patients recovering from operative procedures (anterior cruciate ligament repair, knee arthroscopy, lateral retinacular release, total knee and hip arthroplasties, and carpal tunnel release). Additionally, the mode of cryotherapy varied widely, as did the duration and frequency of cryotherapy application. The time period when cryotherapy was applied after injury ranged from immediately after injury to 1 to 3 days postinjury. Adequate information on the actual surface temperature of the cooling device was not provided in the selected studies. Most authors recorded outcome variables over short periods (1 week), with the longest reporting follow-ups of pain, swelling, and range of motion recorded at 4 weeks postinjury. Data in that study were insufficient to calculate effect size. Nine studies did not provide data of the key outcome measures, so individual study effect estimates could not be calculated. A total of 12 treatment comparisons were made. Ice submersion with simultaneous exercises was significantly more effective than heat and contrast therapy plus simultaneous exercises at reducing swelling. Ice was reported to be no different from ice and low-frequency or high-frequency electric stimulation in effect on swelling, pain, and range of motion. Ice alone seemed to be more effective than applying no form of cryotherapy after minor knee surgery in terms of pain, but no differences were reported for range of motion and girth. Continuous cryotherapy was associated with a significantly greater decrease in pain and wrist circumference after surgery than intermittent cryotherapy. Evidence was marginal that a single simultaneous treatment with ice and compression is no more effective than no cryotherapy after an ankle sprain. The authors reported ice to be no more effective than rehabilitation only with regard to pain, swelling, and range of motion. Ice and compression seemed to be significantly more effective than ice alone in terms of decreasing pain. Additionally, ice, compression, and a placebo injection reduced pain more than a placebo injection alone. Lastly, in 8 studies, there seemed to be little difference in the effectiveness of ice and compression compared with compression alone. Only 2 of the 8 groups reported significant differences in favor of ice and compression. CONCLUSIONS: Based on the available evidence, cryotherapy seems to be effective in decreasing pain. In comparison with other rehabilitation techniques, the efficacy of cryotherapy has been questioned. The exact effect of cryotherapy on more frequently treated acute injuries (eg, muscle strains and contusions) has not been fully elucidated. Additionally, the low methodologic quality of the available evidence is of concern. Many more high-quality studies are required to create evidence-based guidelines on the use of cryotherapy. These must focus on developing modes, durations, and frequencies of ice application that will optimize outcomes after injury.
15497407	Although quantitative trait loci (QTL) underpin many desirable agronomic traits, their incorporation into crop plants through marker-assisted selection is limited by the low predictive value of markers on phenotypic performance. Here we used candidate defense response (DR) genes to dissect quantitative resistance in rice using recombinant inbred (RI) and advanced backcross (BC) populations derived from a blast-resistant cultivar, Sanhuangzhan 2 (SHZ-2). Based on DNA profiles of DR genes, RI lines were clustered into two groups corresponding to level of resistance. Five DR genes, encoding putative oxalate oxidase, dehydrin, PR-1, chitinase, and 14-3-3 protein, accounted for 30.0, 23.0, 15.8, 6.7, and 5.5% of diseased leaf area (DLA) variation, respectively. Together, they accounted for 60.3% of the DLA variation and co-localized with resistance QTL identified by interval mapping. Average phenotypic contributions of oxalate oxidase, dehydrin, PR-1, chitinase, and 14-3-3 protein in BC lines were 26.1, 19.0, 18.0, 11.5, and 10.6%, respectively, across environments. Advanced BC lines with four to five effective DR genes showed enhanced resistance under high disease pressure in field tests. Our results demonstrate that the use of natural variation in a few candidate genes can solve a long-standing problem in rice production and has the potential to address other problems involving complex traits.
15498596	From biochemical experiments it has been found that AT- and GC-specific dyes need a certain number of consecutive bases of the same type for binding one dye molecule. From known base sequences the amount of bases included in dye binding can be calculated and compared with experimental data from flow cytometry. Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana are the first higher plants which are nearly completely (>90%) sequenced. From the published sequences the theoretical fluorescence intensity of base-specific dyes in relation to a base-unspecific dye is calculated for different binding lengths. These values are compared with the actual fluorescence intensities of nuclei analyzed by flow cytometry. For all investigated dyes (DAPI, Hoechst 33258, Hoechst 33342 (all AT specific) and Mithramycin A (GC specific)) a binding length of 1 bp results from the comparison of theoretical and experimental data. This is, however, in disagreement with former results on dye binding. The main reason for the discrepancy seems to be the remaining gap in the sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome.
15499353	The objective of this study was to design and develop food safety knowledge and attitude scales based on food-handling guidelines developed by a national panel of food safety experts. Knowledge (n=43) and attitude (n=49) questions were developed and pilot-tested with a variety of consumer groups. Final questions were selected based on item analysis and on validity and reliability statistical tests. Knowledge questions were tested in Washington State with participants in low-income nutrition education programs (pretest/posttest n=58, test/retest n=19) and college students (pretest/posttest n=34). Attitude questions were tested in Ohio with nutrition education program participants (n=30) and college students (non-nutrition majors n=138, nutrition majors n=57). Item analysis, paired sample t tests, Pearson's correlation coefficients, and Cronbach's alpha were used. Reliability and validity tests of individual items and the question sets were used to reduce the scales to 18 knowledge questions and 10 attitude questions. The knowledge and attitude scales covered topics ranked as important by a national panel of experts and met most validity and reliability standards. The 18-item knowledge questionnaire had instructional sensitivity (mean score increase of more than three points after instruction), internal reliability (Cronbach's alpha >.75), and produced similar results in test-retest without intervention (coefficient of stability=.81). Knowledge of correct procedures for hand washing and avoiding cross-contamination was widespread before instruction. Knowledge was limited regarding avoiding food preparation while ill, cooking hamburgers, high-risk foods, and whether cooked rice and potatoes could be stored at room temperature. The 10-item attitude scale had an appropriate range of responses (item difficulty) and produced similar results in test-retest (P </=.01). Internal consistency ranged from alpha=.63 to .89. Students anticipating a career where food safety is valued had higher attitude scale scores than participants of extension education programs. Uses for the knowledge questionnaire include assessment of subject matter knowledge before instruction and knowledge gain after instruction. The attitude scale assesses an outcome variable that may predict food safety behavior.
15499395	Expressed sequence tags (ESTs) are a valuable source of molecular markers. To enhance the resolution of an existing linkage map and to identify putative functional polymorphic gene loci in hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), over 260,000 ESTs from 5 different grass species were analyzed and 5418 SSR-containing sequences were identified. Using sequence similarity analysis, 156 cross-species superclusters and 138 singletons were used to develop primer pairs, which were then tested on the genomic DNA of barley (Hordeum vulgare), maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa), and wheat. Three-hundred sixty-eight primer pairs produced PCR amplicons from at least one species and 227 primer pairs amplified DNA from two or more species. EST-SSR sequences containing dinucleotide motifs were significantly more polymorphic (74%) than those containing trinucleotides (56%), and polymorphism was similar for markers in both coding and 5' untranslated (UTR) regions. Out of 112 EST-SSR markers, 90 identified 149 loci that were integrated into a reference wheat genetic map. These loci were distributed on 19 of the 21 wheat chromosomes and were clustered in the distal chromosomal regions. Multiple-loci were detected by 39% of the primer pairs. Of the 90 mapped ESTs, putative functions for 22 were identified using BLASTX queries. In addition, 80 EST-SSR markers (104 loci) were located to chromosomes using nullisomic-tetrasomic lines. The enhanced map from this study provides a basis for comparative mapping using orthologous and PCR-based markers and for identification of expressed genes possibly affecting important traits in wheat.
15499401	Using plant EST collections, we obtained 1392 potential gene duplicates across 8 plant species: Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, Hordeum vulgare, Solanum tuberosum, Lycopersicon esculentum, Medicago truncatula, and Glycine max. We estimated the synonymous and nonsynonymous distances between each gene pair and identified two to three mixtures of normal distributions corresponding to one to three rounds of genome duplication in each species. Within the Poaceae, we found a conserved duplication event among all four species that occurred approximately 50-60 million years ago (Mya); an event that probably occurred before the major radiation of the grasses. In the Solanaceae, we found evidence for a conserved duplication event approximately 50-52 Mya. A duplication in soybean occurred approximately 44 Mya and a duplication in Medicago about 58 Mya. Comparing synonymous and nonsynonymous distances allowed us to determine that most duplicate gene pairs are under purifying, negative selection. We calculated Pearson's correlation coefficients to provide us with a measure of how gene expression patterns have changed between duplicate pairs, and compared this across evolutionary distances. This analysis showed that some duplicates seemed to retain expression patterns between pairs, whereas others showed uncorrelated expression.
15499406	Self incompatibility (SI) in Phalaris coerulescens is gametophytically determined by two unlinked multi allelic loci (S and Z). Neither the S nor Z genes have yet been cloned. As part of a map-based cloning strategy, high-resolution maps of the S and Z regions were generated from distorted segregating populations using RFLP probes from wheat, barley, oat, and Phalaris. The S locus was delimited to 0.26 cM with two boundary markers (Xwg811 and Xpsr168) and cosegregated with Xbm2 and Xbcd762. Xbcd266 was the closest marker linked to Z (0.9 cM). A high level of colinearity in the S and Z regions was found in both self-incompatible and -compatible species. The S locus was localized to the subcentromere region of chromosome 1 and the Z locus to the long arm end of chromosome 2. Several rice BAC clones orthologous to the S and Z locus regions were identified. This opens the possibility of using the rice genome sequence data to generate more closely linked markers and identify SI candidate genes. These results add further support to the conservation of gene order in the S and Z regions of the grass genomes.
15499765	A survey was done in 15 typical villages, 150 soil and 86 vegetable plant samples were taken in Jiaxin prefecture of the Taihu Lake region, northern Zhejian province. Results indicate that after 15-20 years land use changed from the paddy rice-wheat (or oilseed rape) double cropping system, to a continuous vegetable land has caused soil quality dramatic change. (1) Acidification: average soil pH was 5.4; about 61% of total samples were pH < 5.5. It was 0.9 units lower than 10 years ago with same upland vegetable cultivation and was 1.2 units lower than soil pH of paddy rice-wheat (or oilseed rape) rotation. (2) Fertilizer salt accumulation: the average salt content was 0.28%, among these about 36.2% of the total samples contained more than 0.3%. (3) Nitrate N and available phosphorus (P) over accumulation: on average it was 279 mg NO3-N/kg, and 45-115 mg P/kg. Nitrate N four times higher and available P 4-10 times more than it is in present paddy rice-wheat rotation soils respectively. This has caused wide concern because of possible groundwater and well drinking water pollution by leached nitrate N and the P losses to water by runoff from vegetable lands induce surface water eutrophication.
15499766	The monitoring of chemical properties, including heavy metals, in soils is necessary if better management and remediation practices are to be established for polluted soils. The National Institute of Agricultural Science and Technology initiated a monitoring study that investigated fertility and heavy metal contents of the benchmarked soils. The study covered paddy soils, upland soils, and horticultural soils in the plastic film houses, and orchard soils throughout the Korea from 1990 to 1998. Likewise, 4047 samples of paddy and 2534 samples of plastic house in 1999 and 2000 were analyzed through the Soil Environment Conservation Act. Soil chemical properties such as pH, organic matter, available phosphate and extractable calcium, magnesium and potassium contents, and heavy metal contents such as cadmium, copper, lead, zinc, arsenic, mercury, and cobalt contents were analyzed. The study showed that the average contents of organic matter, available phosphate, and extractable potassium rapidly increased in plastic house soils than in upland or paddy soils. Two kinds of fertilizer recommendation systems were established for the study: the standard levels by national soil average data for 77 crops and the recommendation by soil test for 70 crops. Standard nitrogen fertilizer application levels for cereal crops changed from 94 kg/ha in 1960s, 99 kg/ha in 1970s, 110 kg/ha in 1980s to 90 kg/ha in 1990s. The K2O-fertilizer also changed from 67 kg/ha in 1960s, 76 kg/ha in 1970s, 92 kg/ha in 1980s, and only 44 kg/ha in 1990s. In rice paddy fields, the average contents of Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn in surface soils (0-15 cm depth) were 0.11 mg kg(-1) (ranged from 0 to 1.01), 4.70 mg kg(-1) (0-41.59), 4.84 mg kg(-1) (0-66.44), and 4.47 mg kg(-1) (0-96.70), respectively. In the uplands, the average contents of Cd, Cu, Pb, Zn, and As in surface soils (0-15 cm depth) were 0.135 mg kg(-1) (ranged from 0 to 0.660), 2.77 mg kg(-1) (0.07-78.24), 3.47 mg kg(-1) (0-43.00), 10.70 mg kg(-1) (0.30-65.10), and 0.57 mg kg(-1) (0.21-2.90), respectively. In plastic film houses, the average contents of Cd, Cu, Pb, Zn, and As in surface soil were 0.12 mg kg(-1) (ranging from 0 to 1.28), 4.82 mg kg(-1) (0-46.50), 2.68 mg kg(-1) (0-46.50), 31.19 mg kg(-1) (0.19-252.0), and 0.36 mg kg(-1) (0-4.98), respectively. In orchard fields, the average contents of Cd, Cu, Pb, Zn, As, and Hg in surface soils (0-20 cm depth) were 0.11 mg kg(-1) (ranged from 0-0.49), 3.62 mg kg(-1) (0.03-45.30), 2.30 mg kg(-1) (0-27.80), 16.60 mg kg(-1) (0.33-105.50), 0.44 mg kg(-1) (0-4.14), and 0.05 mg kg(-1) (0.01-0.54), respectively. For polluted soils with over the warning content levels of heavy metals, fine red earth application, land reconsolidation and soil amelioration such as lime, phosphate, organic manure, and submerging were recommended. For the countermeasure areas, cultivation of non-edible crops such as garden trees, flowers, and fiber crops; land reformation; and heavy application of fine red earth (up to 30 cm) were strongly recommended. Land use techniques should be changed to be harmonious with the environment to increase yield and income. Soil function characteristics should be taken into account.
15499767	A survey was done recently in Jiaxing city of Zhejiang Province in the Yangtze River Delta to compare the differences of soil microbiological properties among paddy soils with different land use including continuous open-field vegetable cultivation (OFVC), plastic-greenhouse vegetable cultivation (PGVC) and traditional rice-wheat rotation (RWR). The soil types included are percolating, permeable and waterlogged paddy soils. The results indicate that the microbial flora was markedly changed as the land use changed for all the three soil types. In continuous vegetable cultivation soils, especially in PGVC soils, the bacteria amounts decreased dramatically, but the fungal and actinomyce amounts increased as compared with RWR soils. The dehydrogenase activities decreased significantly in vegetable soils, especially in PGVC soils as compared with RWR soils. The microbial biomass C and the total phospholipid contents (TPL) in vegetable cultivation soil greatly decreased as compared with RWR soils. Biolog analysis indicated that the kinds of carbon sources that could be metabolized by native microbes in PGVC soils greatly decreased as compared with OFVC soils and RWR soils, revealing that microbial diversity had decreased since land use change. The activities of some soil enzymes including urease, invertase and phosphase were all lower in OFVC soils than those in RWR soils, and those in PGVC soils were the lowest. The degradation of microbiological activities in continuous vegetable cultivation soils, especially in PGVC soils, as compared with RWR soils might have been caused by soil acidification and accumulation of salts due to overuse of both organic and inorganic fertilizers in vegetable cultivation.
15499775	Temporal changes in nitrogen concentrations and stream discharge, as well as sediment and nitrogen losses from erosion plots with different land uses, were studied in an agricultural watershed in the Taihu Lake area in eastern China. The highest overland runoff loads and nitrogen losses were measured under the upland at a convergent footslope. Much higher runoff, sediment and nitrogen losses were observed under upland cropping and vegetable fields than that under chestnut orchard and bamboo forest. Sediment associated nitrogen losses accounted for 8-43.5% of total nitrogen export via overland runoff. N lost in dissolved inorganic nitrogen forms (NO(3-)-N + NH4+-N) accounted for less than 50% of total water associated nitrogen export. Agricultural practices and weather-driven fluctuation in discharge were main reasons for the temporal variations in nutrient losses via stream discharge. Significant correlation between the total nitrogen concentration and stream discharge load was observed. Simple regression models could give satisfactory results for prediction of the total nitrogen concentrations in stream water and can be used for better quantifying nitrogen losses from arable land. Nitrogen losses from the studied watershed via stream discharge during rice season in the year 2002 were estimated to be 10.5 kg N/ha using these simple models.
15499776	The agricultural non-point source pollution by nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) loss from typical paddy soil (whitish soil, Bai Tu in Chinese) in the Taihu Lake region was investigated through a case study. Results shown that the net load of nutrients from white soil is 34.1 kg ha(-1) for total nitrogen (TN), distributed as 19.4 kg ha(-1), in the rice season and 14.7 kg ha(-1) in the wheat season, and for total phosphorus (TP) 1.75 kg ha(-1), distributed as 1.16 kg ha(-1) in the rice season and 0.58 kg ha(-1) in the wheat season. The major chemical species of N loss is different in the two seasons. NH4-N is main the form in the rice season (53% of TN). NO3-N is the main form in wheat season (46% of TN). Particle-P is the main form in both seasons, (about 56% of TP). The nutrient loss varied with time of the year. The main loss of nutrients happened in the 10 days after planting, 64% of TN and 42% of TP loss, respectively. Rainfall and fertilizer application are the key factors which influence nitrogen and phosphorus loss from arable land, especially rainfall events shortly after fertilizer application. So it is very important to improve the field management of the nutrients and water during the early days of planting.
15499777	A long-term field and lysimeter experiment under different amount of fertilizer-N application was conducted to explore the optimal N application rates for a high productive rice-wheat system and less N leaching loss in the Yangtse Delta region. In this region excessive applications of N fertilizer for the rice-wheat production has resulted in reduced N recovery rates and environment pollution. Initial results of the field experiments showed that the optimal N application rate increased with the yield. On the two major paddy soils (Hydromorphic paddy soil and Gleyed paddy soil) of the region, the optimal N application rate was 225-270 kg N hm(-2) for rice and 180-225 kg N hm(-2) for wheat, separately. This has resulted in the highest number of effective ears and Spikelets per unit area, and hence high yield. Nitrogen leaching in the form of NO(3-)-N occurs mainly in the wheat-growing season and in the ponding and seedling periods of the paddy field. Its concentration in the leachate increased with the N application rate in the lysimeter experiment. When the application rate reached 225 kg N hm(-2), the concentration rose to 5.4-21.3 mgN l(-1) in the leachate during the wheat-growing season. About 60% of the leachate samples determined contained NO(3-)-N beyond the criterion (NO(3-)-N 10 mg l(-1)) for N pollution. In the field experiment, when the N application rate was in the range of 270-315 kg hm(-2), the NO(3-)-N concentration in the leachate during the wheat-growing season ranged from 1.9 to 11.0 mg l(-1). About 20% of the leachate samples reached close to, and 10% exceeded, the criterion for N pollution. Long-term accumulation of NO(3-)-N from leaching will no doubt constitute a potential risk of N contamination of the groundwater in the Yangtse Delta Region.
15499778	To assess P losses to surface water by runoff during the rice season and by drainage flow during the winter wheat season, serial field trials were conducted in different types of paddy soils in the Tai Lake Region (TLR) during 2000 and 2001. Four P application rates were set as 0 (CK), 30, 150, and 300 kg P/hm2 for flooded rice trials and 0 (CK), 20, 80, 160 kg P/hm2 for winter wheat trials respectively. Field experiments were done in two locations with a plot size of 30 m2 and four replications in a randomized complete block design. A simplified lysimeter was installed for each plot to collect all the runoff or drainage flow from each event. Total P (TP) losses to surface water during rice season by runoff flow from four treatments were 150 (CK), 220 (T30), 395 (T150), 670 (T300) g P/ hm2 in year 2000, and 298, 440, 1828, 3744 g P/hm2 in year 2001 respectively in Wuxi station, here the soil is permeable paddy soil derived from loam clay deposit. While the losses were 102, 140, 210, 270 in year 2000, and 128, 165, 359, 589 g P/hm2 in year 2001 respectively in Changshu station, here the soil is waterlogged paddy soil derived from silt loam deposit. During the winter wheat season, total P lost from the fields by drainage flow in the four treatments were 253 (CK), 382 (T20), 580 (T89), 818 (T160) g P/hm2 in year 2000--2001, and 573.3, 709.4, 1123.2, 1552.4 g P/hm2 in year 2001--2002 at the Wuxi station. While these were 395.6, 539.1, 1356.8, 1972.1 g P/hm2 in year 2000--2001, and 811.5, 1184.6, 3001.2, 5333.1 g P/hm2 in year 2001--2002 at the Changshu station. Results revealed that P fertilizer application rates significantly affected the TP concentrations and TP loads in runoff during the rice season, and by drainage flow during the winter wheat season. Both TP loads were significantly increased as the P application rate increases. The data indicate that TP losses to surface water were much higher during the winter wheat season than during the rice season in two tested sites. The data also reveal that the annual precipitation and evaporation rate affected the soil P losses to surface water significantly. Year 2000 was relatively dried with higher evaporation thus P losses to water by both runoff and drainage flow were less than in year 2001 which was a relatively wet year with lower evaporation. Results indicate that texture, structure of the soil profile, and field construction (with or without ridge and deep drains) affected soil P losses to surface water dramatically. Annual possible TP lost to water at the application rate of 50 kg P/hm2 year tested in TLR were estimated from 97 to 185 tones P from permeable paddy soils and 109-218 tones P from waterlogged paddy soils. There was no significant difference of TP lost between the CK and the T50 treatments in both stations, which indicate that there is no more TP lost in field of normal P fertilizer application rate than in control field of no P fertilized. Much higher TP lost in runoff or drainage flow from those other P application rates treatments than from the T50 treatment, which suggest that P losses to surface water would be greatly increasing in the time when higher available P accumulation in plough layer soil in this region.
15499779	Field experiments were done in two sites, Yixing and Changshu, Jiangsu province, China, to study P movement and leaching in flooded paddy soils. P movement in soil was investigated by using the KH2 32PO4 tracker method, and the amount of P leached from the soil layer in different depths was estimated by measuring P concentrations in the soil solution and saturated hydraulic conductivities in field. Determination was done about one month after P application. There was 46% and 42% of total 32P retained in the 0-5cm layer of soil in the Yixing site and in the Changshu site respectively. The 32P retained in the 25-30 cm layer was only about 1-2% of the total 32P added. Furthermore, 8.01% of 32P in the soil of Yixing site and 16.8% of 32P in the soil of Changshu site was lost from the layer 0-30 cm soil. The seasonal amounts of P leached from the top soil layer and from bottom layer are about 4.5-5.8% and 1.6-2.1% of the total P application, respectively. Changes of total P concentrations in soil solutions during rice growth showed that the fertilizer P applied before flooding of the paddy fields suffered a flash leaching loss and a slow leaching loss. We concluded that the fertilizer P could quickly move in the flooded paddy rice field and parts of it can enter into surface water and ground water. Unless the P application is well managed the risk of P loss and consequently environmental pollution exist.
15499781	This paper reports a study of the distribution of organo-chlorine pesticides (DDT and HCH) between rice plants and the soil system by spraying before the heading stage at four different dosage levels--control, normal dosage (15 kg ha(-1) of 6% HCH and 7.5 kg ha(-1) of 25% DDT), double dosage and four times dosage. Soil and plant samples were taken respectively at the 1st h, 3rd, 10th, 20th, and 40th day after spraying and at the harvest time. The results indicate that less than 5% of HCH and 15% of DDT were absorbed by the surface of rice leaves for normal dosage. Most of both pesticides moved into the soil in solution after spraying. Compared with DDT, HCH was degraded and run off more easily. HCH residues in the surface soil layer (1-3 cm) were already below 6.4 microg kg(-1) at the mature stage, lower than Chinese Environmental Quality Standard for Agricultural Soils: HCH < 0.05 mg kg(-1). However DDT residues in the surface soil layer remained 172 microg kg(-1), higher than the national standard: DDT < 0.05 mg kg(-1). According to the test f OCP residues in rice seeds, it can be concluded that the OCP sprayed onto the surface of rice leaves can move into rice plants and accumulate in the seeds at the mature stage. HCH residues in rice seeds of the double and four times dosage treatments, and DDT residues in all treatments, exceeded the Chinese National Food Standard (HCH < 0.10 mg kg(-1), DDT < 0.20 mg kg(-1)).
15499790	The solution culture, paddy soil culture and the simulation experiments in the laboratory were conducted to clarify the interactions between selenium and phosphorus, and its effects on the growth and selenium accumulation in rice. Results revealed that a suitable supply of selenium could promote rice growth and excessive selenium could injure rice plant, causing lower biomass, especially in the roots. The supply of selenite could enhance the selenium contents of rice shoots and roots in solution culture and in soil culture. The selenium concentrations in roots were much higher than those in shoots supplied with the same rates of selenium and phosphorus. The interaction between selenium and phosphorus was evident. When the phosphorus supply increased to meet the needs of plant growth, phosphorus could promote absorption and accumulation of selenium in the shoots. If the phosphorus supply was excessive, phosphorus could inhibit the accumulation of selenium in the shoots at the lower selenite level (2 micromol l(-1)), but could not at the higher selenite level (10 micromol l(-1)). With the supply of phosphate increased, the selenium concentrations in the roots decreased significantly at both selenite levels. The presence of phosphate could decrease Se sorption on the soil surface and increase the selenium concentration in the soil solution. The concentrations of selenium in shoots and roots supplied with 0.08 g kg(-1) phosphorus were lower than those with no phosphorus supplied. With the increase of phosphorus added to 0.4 g kg(-1), the selenium concentration in shoots and roots increased. The effect of phosphorus on the concentration was statistically significant at all three selenium levels.
15499925	Sedimentation field-flow fractionation (SdFFF) elution mode of micron sized particle is described generically as "Hyperlayer" and involves particle size, density, shape and rigidity. It requires the use of specific detectors of mass, size, surface, or of other characteristics of the eluted particles. Correlation of FFF retention data with such signals gives hyphenated information about particle properties. Flow cytometry (FC) is a multi dimensional particle counter, which permits specific particle property characterization using light scattering and fluorescence principles. It appears therefore as a powerful technique for micron sized species description. FC is mostly known for cell analyses, while its potential is much broader once proper calibration performed. In this report, forward angle signal (FS) is calibrated in size by using standard latex beads and produces, for a given particle sample, a number versus size histogram, describing particle size distribution. These histograms can be an alternative to Coulter counting. That methodology is tested with rice starch population (RSP) fractions obtained from FFF separation.
15500252	DNA polymorphism of randomly selected genes in rice cultivars was analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment-single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-RF-SSCP) technique. Single DNA fragments were amplified from genomic DNA of the Nipponbare cultivar by 671 primer pairs among the 1000 primer pairs tested. PCR-RF-SSCP analysis using the 671 primer pairs detected polymorphism in 108 DNA fragments between 17 japonica paddy-rice cultivars. An average of 36.9 DNA fragments showed polymorphism between any pair of japonica paddy-rice cultivars. The nucleotide sequences of the polymorphic DNA fragments were determined for 50 alleles of 45 genes together with Nipponbare alleles. In these genes, 142 SNPs and 32 insertions/deletions were identified. Among these 174 sequence variations, 71 were in exons, 78 in introns, and 25 in unassigned regions. There were 28 alleles which had sequence variations in the exons. One allele had a 1-bp deletion in the exon causing a frame-shift mutation, 15 alleles had missense mutations, and the other 12 alleles had synonymous changes and/or sequence variations in 3' untranslated regions. The number of genes having sequence variations between the rice cultivars and the functional implications of the identified SNPs are herein discussed.
15500466	We investigated the composition and the basis of genome expansion in the core Triticeae genome using Aegilops tauschii, the D-genome donor of bread wheat. We sequenced an unfiltered genomic shotgun (trs) and a methylation-filtration (tmf) library of A. tauschii, and analyzed wheat expressed sequence tags (ESTs) to estimate the expression of genes and transposable elements (TEs). The sampled D-genome sequences consisted of 91.6% repetitive elements, 2.5% known genes, and 5.9% low-copy sequences of unknown function. TEs constituted 68.2% of the D-genome compared with 50% in maize and 14% in rice. The DNA transposons constituted 13% of the D-genome compared with 2% in maize. TEs were methylated unevenly within and among elements and families, and most were transcribed which contributed to genome expansion in the core Triticeae genome. The copy number of a majority of repeat families increased gradually following polyploidization. Certain TE families occupied discrete chromosome territories. Nested insertions and illegitimate recombination occurred extensively between the TE families, and a majority of the TEs contained internal deletions. The GC content varied significantly among the three sequence sets examined ranging from 42% in tmf to 46% in trs and 52% in the EST. Based on enrichment of genic sequences, methylation-filtration offers one option, although not as efficient as in maize, for isolating gene-rich regions from the large genome of wheat.
15502647	The hydrogen (H2) breath test is widely used in the assessment of carbohydrate malabsorption. Severe exocrine pancreatic insufficiency markedly diminishes pancreatic amylase production and results in malabsorption of complex carbohydrates. Thus, the H2 breath test with low-dose rice flour starch was tested to determine its value in detecting exocrine pancreatic insufficiency by comparison with a direct measurement of pancreatic function. Ten patients with clinically suspected pancreatic insufficiency confirmed with a duodenal perfusion technique and measurement of trypsin and lipase output after cerulein stimulation were included. An H2-rice flour breath test was performed by orally administering 30 g of rice flour. End-alveolar breath samples were obtained before rice load and at 30-minute intervals thereafter for the next 5 hours. The results are expressed as median (percentile 25-75). Patients included 8 men and 2 women with moderate to severe exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to chronic pancreatitis, pancreatectomy, or cystic fibrosis. Stimulated duodenal output of lipase and trypsin was abnormally low in all patients (median release, 1.7; range, 0.5-4.5 and 0.8, range, 0.1-11.3 KU/h, respectively). Basal H2 excretion was 9 ppm (range, 7-17) and delta increase over basal H2 excretion was 4 ppm (range, 1-6). Correlation between H2-rice breath test and basal or stimulated duodenal output of lipase and trypsin was not significant. In exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, an oral load of 30 g rice flour slightly raises H2 excretion in breath. This increase is not useful for detecting pancreatic insufficiency due to poor sensitivity and because it is influenced by extrapancreatic factors such as small bowel bacterial overgrowth.
15503032	A fast and efficient microprojectile bombardment-mediated transformation protocol is reported for the grass species Brachypodium distachyon, a proposed alternative model plant to Oryza sativa for functional genomics in grasses. Embryogenic calli derived from immature embryos were transformed by a construct containing the uidA (coding for beta-glucuronidase) and bar (coding for phosphinothricin acetyl transferase) genes, and bialaphos, a non-selective herbicide, was used as the selection agent throughout all phases of the tissue culture. Average transformation efficiencies of 5.3% were achieved, and for single bombardments transformation efficiencies of up to 14% were observed. The time frame from the bombardment of embryogenic callus to the harvesting of transgenic T1 seeds was 29 weeks and 25 weeks for the diploid and two tetraploid accessions used, respectively. Since the seed-to-seed life cycle is 19 weeks for the diploid and 15 weeks for the tetraploid accessions, our B. distachyon transformation system allows testing of both the T0 and the T1 generation as well as production of T2 seeds within 1 year.
15503144	The origin of rice domestication has been the subject of debate for several decades. We have compared the transpositional history of 110 LTR retrotransposons in the genomes of two rice varieties, Nipponbare (Japonica type) and 93-11 (Indica type) whose complete sequences have recently been released. Using a genomic paleontology approach, we estimate that these two genomes diverged from one another at least 200,000 years ago, i.e., at a time which is clearly older than the date of domestication of the crop (10,000 years ago, during the late Neolithic). In addition, we complement and confirm this first in silico analysis with a survey of insertion polymorphisms in a wide range of traditional rice varieties of both Indica and Japonica types. These experimental data provide additional evidence for the proposal that Indica and Japonica rice arose from two independent domestication events in Asia.
1550357	The cytoplasmic pH, concentrations of phosphate metabolites, and rate of ATP synthesis were measured in vivo in excised rice shoot tips under normoxic and hypoxic conditions using 31P NMR. When supplied with glucose, the shoot tips grew rapidly and were relatively unaffected by hypoxia. The cytoplasmic pH decreased transiently by only 0.2 units during hypoxia, and the concentration of ATP was maintained to at least 90% of the normoxic level. Most importantly, the unidirectional rate constant of ATP synthesis from free phosphate decreased less than 25% during hypoxia. This is in contrast to other actively growing tissues such as the maize root tip. gamma-Aminobutyrate was the major nonvolatile fermentation end product after 22 h of hypoxia. Other hypoxia-induced changes included a modest increase in [Ala] and [succinate] as well as a substantial decrease in [malate].
15504025	Plant nonspecific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) are small basic proteins that transport phospholipids between membranes. On the basis of molecular mass, nsLTPs are subdivided into nsLTP1 and nsLTP2. NsLTPs are all helical proteins stabilized by four conserved disulfide bonds. The existence of an internal hydrophobic cavity, running through the molecule, is a typical characteristic of nsLTPs that serves as the binding site for lipid-like substrates. NsLTPs are known to participate in plant defense, but the exact mechanism of their antimicrobial action against fungi or bacteria is still unclear. To trigger plant defense responses, a receptor at the plant surface needs to recognize the complex of a fungal protein (elicitin) and ergosterol. NsLTPs share high structural similarities with elicitin and need to be associated with a hydrophobic ligand to stimulate a defense response. In this study, binding of sterol molecules with rice nsLTPs is analyzed using various biophysical methods. NsLTP2 can accommodate a planar sterol molecule, but nsLTP1 binds only linear lipid molecules. Although the hydrophobic cavity of rice nsLTP2 is smaller than that of rice nsLTP1, it is flexible enough to accommodate the voluminous sterol molecule. The dissociation constant for the nsLTP2/cholesterol complex is approximately 71.21 microM as measured by H/D exchange and mass spectroscopic detection. Schematic models of the nsLTP complex structure give interesting clues about the reason for differential binding modes. Comparisons of NMR spectra of the sterol/rice nsLTP2 complex and free nsLTP2 revealed the residues involved in binding.
15504355	The CONSTANS (CO) protein is a critical regulator of the photoperiodic control of flowering in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. We isolated a cDNA PpCOL1 encoding a homolog of the CO/CO-LIKE (COL) family proteins from a cryptogam Physcomitrella patens. The predicted PpCOL1 protein has N-terminal zinc finger and C-terminal CCT domains, which are conserved in the angiosperm CO/COL proteins. Structurally, PpCOL1 is the most closely related to the Group Ia or Ic proteins, which include AtCO and AtCOL1/2, among diverged members of the family. A transient expression assay using GFP showed that the CCT domain of PpCOL1 contains a nuclear-localizing signal. Northern blotting analyses revealed that the PpCOL1 expression is controlled by the circadian clock, and moreover, it is photoperiodically regulated at a gametophore stage when the rate of sporophyte formation is affected by day length. These observations indicate a possible involvement of PpCOL1 as a nuclear factor in the photoperiodic regulation of reproduction of Physcomitrella.
15504434	The effects of biotic stresses on the contents of benzoxazinones (Bxs) were investigated in maize leaves. When the causal agent of southern corn leaf blight, Bipolaris maydis, was inoculated on the third leaf, the amount of 2-hydroxy-4,7-dimethoxy-1,4-benzoxazin-3-one glucoside (HDMBOA-Glc) increased, reaching a maximum level 48 h after inoculation. The inoculation of weakly pathogenic Curvularia lunata and non-pathogenic Alternaria alternata also resulted in accumulation of HDMBOA-Glc, and filtrates of the cultures of B. maydis, C. lunata and A. alternata also showed the accumulation of elicitor-active compounds by the fungi. Furthermore the infection of B. maydis induced formation of dark brown lesions, where most abundant Bx-related compound was 6-methoxy-2-benzoxazolinone (MBOA). The later is formed by degradation of DIMBOA and HDMBOA, whereas HDMBOA-Glc was most abundant in the surrounding green tissues. Among the Bx-related compounds, MBOA exhibited the strongest inhibition of the germination of the conidia and of the growth of germ tubes of B. maydis, C. lunata and A. alternata. In addition to fungal infection, the feeding by rice armyworm larvae resulted in HDMBOA-Glc accumulation. These findings are discussed in relation to the possible ecological relevance of the conversion of DIMBOA-Glc into HDMBOA-Glc.
15504695	The RARE imaging method was used to monitor the cooking of single rice kernels in real time and with high spatial resolution in three dimensions. The imaging sequence is optimized for rapid acquisition of signals with short relaxation times using centered out RARE. Short scan time and high spatial resolution are critical factors in the investigation of the cooking behavior of rice kernels since time and spatial averaging may lead to erroneous results. The results are confirming the general pattern of moisture ingress that has been suspected from previous (more limited) studies. Water uptake as determined by analysis of the MRI time series recorded during cooking compares well with gravimetric studies. This allows using these real-time MRI data for developing and validating models that describe the effect of kernel microstructure on its cooking behavior.
15506095	Studies on the dynamics of NH4+, NO3- and TN concentrations in the surface water of paddy field with an independent irrigation system showed that the concentration of NH4+ and TN in surface water was increased to the maximum after 1day of each urea application, and then decreased rapidly with time. The ratio of NH4+/TN, NO3-/TN and (NH4+ + NO3-)/TN was increased firstly, and then decreased. NH4+ and TN could be used as the main indexes for the water pollution of the paddy field, and NO3- used as the assistant one. There existed a positive relation between the concentration of these three kinds of nitrogen and N application amount. Nine days after urea application was the key time to prevent the gross loss of the three kinds of nitrogen in the water surface of the paddy field. The simulation expressions of NH4+ and TN with time factor could be exponential, logarithmic, power or binomial, while NO3- had no appropriate expression. The simulation with factors of time and N application amount showed that the simulation expressions of NH4+ and TN were the same.
15506102	The study showed that under field condition, when the CO2 concentration was elevated 200 micromol x mol(-1) above control, the average brown rice rate of japonica variety Wuxiangjing 14 was 1.4% higher, while lead milled rice rate was 12.3% lower than control. The brown rice rate increased at lower nitrogen supply level (LN), while lead milled rice rate increased at higher nitrogen supply level (HN). The percentage of chalky grain was 11.9% higher, and chalkiness degree was 2.8% higher than control, but no obvious difference was found in chalkiness area between the FACE and the control. The chalkiness area, percentage of chalky grain and chalkiness degree decreased at HN plus higher phosphorus supply level (HP). The gelatinization temperature was elevated 0.52 degrees C, gel consistency increased, while amylose content was not statistically significant. The amylose content decreased at HN plus HP, while gel consistency and gelatinization temperature decreased at LN plus HP and at LN, respectively. The protein content was decreased 0.6% under FACE treatment and at LN plus lower phosphorus supply level.
15509249	Video-EEG in a family of three patients with slow development and familial dysautonomia demonstrated absence seizures associated with 3-Hz generalized spike-and-wave discharges. The seizures were refractory to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Treatment was given with rice-based cereal electrolyte oral solution. Treatment induced seizure freedom and normalization of EEG in all three patients. Repeated video-EEG monitoring with discontinuation of AEDs and maintenance of the oral hydration therapy was associated with recurrence of epileptic activity. All three patients have remained seizure free (approximately 1 year) with a combination of topiramate and electrolytic therapy. Rice-based oral electrolyte hydration therapy may play a role in prevention and control of seizures in patients with familial dysautonomia.
15509365	The aim of this article is to evaluate the role of allergy in the pathogenesis of Meniere's disease by means of cytokine profiles, allergic parameters and lymphocyte subgroups. A total of 46 patients aged between 26-68 years diagnosed with Meniere's disease between 1993-2002 were recruited to this study. The control group consisted of 46 healthy volunteers who were from the same age group, living in the same region and possessing similar socioeconomic indicators. Lymphocyte subgroups were measured from the peripheral blood by employing Becton Dickinson (BD) monoclonal CD4, CD8, CD23 antibodies. IFN-gamma, IL4, total IgE levels, and specific IgE levels pertaining to tree, fungus, fruit, egg-white, cow's milk, wheat flour, corn flour, beef, and rice allergens, in all seasons, were measured and compared in the patient and control groups. In patient serum samples there were positive correlations between CD23 and IgE, CD8 and IgE, CD4/CD8 and IgE, and CD23 and CD8 (p <0.01). There were negative correlations between IL-4 and IFN-gamma, IFN-gamma and IgE, and a positive correlation between IL-4 and IgE. Total IgE levels were above the normal values in 19/46 (41.3 per cent) of the patient group, but the ratio was nine out of 46 (19.5 per cent) in the control group. A history of allergy was found in 31/46 (67.3 per cent) when the patients were questioned. The ratio of a history of allergy was 16/46 (34.7 per cent) in the control group. When specific IgE levels were evaluated the ratio of patients with all the panels negative was eight out of 46 (17.9 per cent), but it was 31/46 (67.3 per cent) in the control group. This study found that the prevalence of allergy was higher in patients with Meniere's disease than in the control group. Thus the authors suggest that allergy should be taken into account when patients with this disease are treated.
15509723	Burkholderia brasiliensis, a Gram-negative diazotrophic endophytic bacterium, was first isolated from roots, stems, and leaves of rice plant in Brazil. The polysaccharide moiety was released by ammonolysis from the B. brasiliensis lipopolysaccharide (LPS), allowing the unambiguous characterization of a 3,6-dideoxy-4-C-(1-hydroxyethyl)-D-xylo-hexose (yersiniose A), an uncommon feature for Burkholderia LPS. The complete structure of the yersiniose A-containing O-antigen was identified by sugar and methylation analyses and NMR spectroscopy. Our results show that the repeating oligosaccharide motif of LPS O-chain consists of a branched tetrasaccharide with the following structure:-->2-alpha-d-Rhap-(1-->3)-[alpha-YerAp-(1-->2)]-alpha-D-Rhap-(1-->3)-alpha-D-Rhap-(1-->.
15509765	The regulation of floral organ number is closely associated with floral meristem size. Mutations in the gene FLORAL ORGAN NUMBER1 (FON1) cause enlargement of the floral meristem in Oryza sativa (rice), resulting in an increase in the number of all floral organs. Ectopic floral organs develop in the whorl of each organ and/or in the additional whorls that form. Inner floral organs are more severely affected than outer floral organs. Many carpel primordia develop indeterminately, and undifferentiated meristematic tissues remain in the center in almost-mature flowers. Consistent with this result, OSH1, a molecular marker of meristematic indeterminate cells in rice, continues to be expressed in this region. Although floral meristems are strongly affected by the fon1-2 mutation, vegetative and inflorescence meristems are largely normal, even in this strong allele. We isolated the FON1 gene by positional cloning and found that it encodes a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase most similar to CLAVATA1 (CLV1) in Arabidopsis thaliana. This suggests that a pathway similar to the CLV signaling system that regulates meristem maintenance in Arabidopsis is conserved in the grass family. Unlike CLV1, which is predominantly expressed in the L3 layer of the shoot meristem, FON1 is expressed throughout the whole floral meristem, suggesting that small modifications to the CLV signaling pathway may be required to maintain the floral meristem in rice. In addition, FON1 transcripts are detected in all meristems responsible for development of the aerial part of rice, suggesting that genes sharing functional redundancy with FON1 act in the vegetative and inflorescence meristems to mask the effects of the fon1 mutation.
15509833	Monocotyledons and dicotyledons are distinct, not only in their body plans and developmental patterns, but also in the structural features of their cell walls. The recent completion of the rice (Oryza sativa) genomic sequence and publication of the sequence data, together with the completed database of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome, provide the first opportunity to compare the full complement of cell-wall-related genes from the two distinct classes of flowering plants. We made this comparison by exploiting the fact that Arabidopsis and rice have type I and type II walls, respectively, and therefore represent the two extremes in terms of the structural features of plant cell walls. In this review article, we classify all cell-wall-related genes into 32 gene families, and generate their phylogenetic trees. Using these data, we can phylogenetically compare individual genes of particular interest between Arabidopsis and rice. This comparative genome approach shows that the differences in wall architecture in the two plant groups actually mirror the diversity of the individual gene families involved in the cell-wall dynamics of the respective plant species. This study also identifies putative rice orthologs of genes with well-defined functions in Arabidopsis and other plant species.
15509842	We isolated and characterized two rice genes, OsRpoTp and OsRpoTm, that encode putative phage-type RNA polymerases. Predicted amino acid sequences showed high homology of these genes to known RpoT genes. A transient expression assay using green fluorescent protein indicated that the encoded proteins were localized to plastids and mitochondria, respectively. We demonstrated by reverse transcription-PCR experiments and immunoblot analysis that OsRpoTp expression occurred at an early stage of leaf development, prior to the transcript accumulation of the genes that were transcribed by the nuclear-encoded plastid RNA polymerase (NEP). Expression analyses of the chloroplast-deficient rice mutant, virescent-1, showed a discrepancy between OsRpoTp protein accumulation and the level of transcripts of NEP-transcribed genes. Our results suggest that NEP activation is regulated by a process after transcription, and is affected by the developmental state of chloroplast biogenesis.
15509849	Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) (10-100 microM) induced rapid and transient accumulation of phosphatidic acid (PA) in suspension-cultured rice cells. When phospholipase activity in the cellular extract fraction prepared from rice cells treated with H2O2 was assayed in the presence of 1-butanol (0.1%), rapid and transient phosphatidylbutanol (PtdBut) formation was observed. Thus, the H2O2-activated phospholipase was concluded to be phospholipase D (PLD). Furthermore, H2O2 directly induced in vitro PLD activation in the cytosolic fraction without H2O2 treatment. In vitro and in vivo activation of PLD were completely suppressed in the presence of lavendustin A (0.05 mM), a potent inhibitor of protein tyrosine kinase. Phytoalexin biosynthesis induced by N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor was enhanced in the presence of H2O2 (10-100 microM), whereas it was suppressed in the presence of tiron, a potent scavenger of O2-, 1-butanol (0.1%) and lavendustin A (0.05 mM). These results indicate that H2O2-inducible PLD activation enhances signal transduction leading to phytoalexin biosynthesis in rice cells.
15509854	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways are modules involved in the transduction of extracellular signals to intracellular targets in all eukaryotes. In plants, it has been evidenced that MAPKs play a role in the signaling of biotic and abiotic stresses, plant hormones, and cell cycle cues. However, the effect of heavy metals on plant MAPKs has not been well examined. The Northern blot analysis of OsMAPK mRNA levels has shown that only OsMAPK2, but not OsMAPK3 and OsMAPK4, expressed in suspension-cultured cells in response to 100-400 microM Cd treatments. The OsMAPK2 transcripts increased within 12 h upon 400 microM Cd treatment. In addition, we found that 42- and 50-kDa MBP kinases were significantly activated by Cd treatment in rice suspension-cultured cells. And 40-, 42-, 50- and 64-kDa MBP kinases were activated in rice roots. Furthermore, GSH inhibits Cd-induced 40-kDa MBP kinase activation. By immunoblot analysis and immunoprecipitation followed by in-gel kinase assay, we confirmed that Cd-activated 42-kDa MBP kinase is a MAP kinase. Our results suggest that a MAP kinase cascade may function in the Cd-signalling pathway in rice.
15511074	False smut is an increasingly important rice disease in recent years, caused by a pathogen, Ustilaginoidea virens Cooke, Takahashi. The pathogen fungus grew well in PD medium, and could produce toxins, ustiloxins, which strongly inhibited the growth of radicle and embryo of plants. The rough ustiloxins were extracted with 100% methanol from the culture filtrate in the study. The antiserum against Ustiloxin A, the main component of the toxins, was raised by immunizing New Zealand rabbit. Elisa assay showed that the titers of the two antiserums obtained were 1: 20 000 and 1: 6 000, respectively. The specificity of the antiserums was also confirmed by Immuno-gold labeling.
15511151	Reactions of protonated water clusters, H(H(2)O)(n) (+) (n=1-4) with D(2)O and their "mirror" reactions, D(D(2)O)(n) (+) (n=1-4) with H(2)O, are studied using guided-ion beam mass spectrometry. Absolute reaction cross sections are determined as a function of collision energy from thermal energy to over 10 eV. At low collision energies, we observe reactions in which H(2)O and D(2)O molecules are interchanged and reactions where H-D exchange has occurred. As the collision energy is increased, the H-D exchange products decrease and the water exchange products become dominant. At high collision energies, processes in which one or more water molecules are lost from the reactant ions become important, with simple collision-induced dissociation processes, i.e., those without H-D exchange, being dominant. Threshold energies of endothermic channels are measured and used to determine binding energies of the proton bound complexes, which are consistent with those determined by thermal equilibrium measurements and previous collision-induced dissociation studies. A kinetic scheme that relies only on the ratio of isomerization and dissociation rate constants successfully accounts for the kinetic energy dependence observed in the branching ratios for H-D and water exchange products in all systems. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory and ab initio calculations confirm the feasibility and establish the details of this kinetic model.
1551309	In order to study the influence of non-carbohydrate foods on responses to carbohydrates during mixed meals, 30 Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetic patients followed a standardized diet for 5 consecutive days. On days 2, 3, 4, and 5, four different lunches were eaten in a randomized order. Lunches consisted of rice or glucose (50 g carbohydrate) eaten either alone, or as part of a mixed meal (32 g protein, 20 g fat). Glucose and insulin levels prior to the lunches did not differ significantly. Glucose and insulin responses differed (p less than 0.001), responses to rice being lower than responses to glucose, and responses to the meal plus rice lower than responses to the meal plus glucose. The ratios of glucose responses to rice and glucose (glycaemic index) were similar (alone, 47 +/- 4%; meal, 47 +/- 4%; NS). The ratios of the insulin responses did not differ (78 +/- 8 vs 96 +/- 7%; NS). The blood glucose responses to mixed meals were lower than responses to the carbohydrates eaten alone, the ratios being similar (rice, 52 +/- 3%; glucose, 58 +/- 5%; NS). Serum insulin responses were however higher, and the ratios differed (172 +/- 13 vs 138 +/- 14%; p = 0.05). These results suggest that the glycaemic index of isolated carbohydrate foods can predict the relative response to mixed meals in the same individuals with Type 2 diabetes. They also support the insulin secretagogue effect of non-carbohydrate foods, which may vary according to the source of carbohydrate in the meal.
15514039	A total of 944 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) generated 2212 EST loci mapped to homoeologous group 1 chromosomes in hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). EST deletion maps and the consensus map of group 1 chromosomes were constructed to show EST distribution. EST loci were unevenly distributed among chromosomes 1A, 1B, and 1D with 660, 826, and 726, respectively. The number of EST loci was greater on the long arms than on the short arms for all three chromosomes. The distribution of ESTs along chromosome arms was nonrandom with EST clusters occurring in the distal regions of short arms and middle regions of long arms. Duplications of group 1 ESTs in other homoeologous groups occurred at a rate of 35.5%. Seventy-five percent of wheat chromosome 1 ESTs had significant matches with rice sequences (E < or = e(-10)), where large regions of conservation occurred between wheat consensus chromosome 1 and rice chromosome 5 and between the proximal portion of the long arm of wheat consensus chromosome 1 and rice chromosome 10. Only 9.5% of group 1 ESTs showed significant matches to Arabidopsis genome sequences. The results presented are useful for gene mapping and evolutionary and comparative genomics of grasses.
15514040	The complex hexaploid wheat genome offers many challenges for genomics research. Expressed sequence tags facilitate the analysis of gene-coding regions and provide a rich source of molecular markers for mapping and comparison with model organisms. The objectives of this study were to construct a high-density EST chromosome bin map of wheat homoeologous group 2 chromosomes to determine the distribution of ESTs, construct a consensus map of group 2 ESTs, investigate synteny, examine patterns of duplication, and assess the colinearity with rice of ESTs assigned to the group 2 consensus bin map. A total of 2600 loci generated from 1110 ESTs were mapped to group 2 chromosomes by Southern hybridization onto wheat aneuploid chromosome and deletion stocks. A consensus map was constructed of 552 ESTs mapping to more than one group 2 chromosome. Regions of high gene density in distal bins and low gene density in proximal bins were found. Two interstitial gene-rich islands flanked by relatively gene-poor regions on both the short and long arms and having good synteny with rice were discovered. The map locations of two ESTs indicated the possible presence of a small pericentric inversion on chromosome 2B. Wheat chromosome group 2 was shown to share syntenous blocks with rice chromosomes 4 and 7.
15514041	The focus of this study was to analyze the content, distribution, and comparative genome relationships of 996 chromosome bin-mapped expressed sequence tags (ESTs) accounting for 2266 restriction fragments (loci) on the homoeologous group 3 chromosomes of hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Of these loci, 634, 884, and 748 were mapped on chromosomes 3A, 3B, and 3D, respectively. The individual chromosome bin maps revealed bins with a high density of mapped ESTs in the distal region and bins of low density in the proximal region of the chromosome arms, with the exception of 3DS and 3DL. These distributions were more localized on the higher-resolution group 3 consensus map with intermediate regions of high-mapped-EST density on both chromosome arms. Gene ontology (GO) classification of mapped ESTs was not significantly different for homoeologous group 3 chromosomes compared to the other groups. A combined analysis of the individual bin maps using 537 of the mapped ESTs revealed rearrangements between the group 3 chromosomes. Approximately 232 (44%) of the consensus mapped ESTs matched sequences on rice chromosome 1 and revealed large- and small-scale differences in gene order. Of the group 3 mapped EST unigenes approximately 21 and 32% matched the Arabidopsis coding regions and proteins, respectively, but no chromosome-level gene order conservation was detected.
15514042	A total of 1918 loci, detected by the hybridization of 938 expressed sequence tag unigenes (ESTs) from 26 Triticeae cDNA libraries, were mapped to wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) homoeologous group 4 chromosomes using a set of deletion, ditelosomic, and nulli-tetrasomic lines. The 1918 EST loci were not distributed uniformly among the three group 4 chromosomes; 41, 28, and 31% mapped to chromosomes 4A, 4B, and 4D, respectively. This pattern is in contrast to the cumulative results of EST mapping in all homoeologous groups, as reported elsewhere, that found the highest proportion of loci mapped to the B genome. Sixty-five percent of these 1918 loci mapped to the long arms of homoeologous group 4 chromosomes, while 35% mapped to the short arms. The distal regions of chromosome arms showed higher numbers of loci than the proximal regions, with the exception of 4DL. This study confirmed the complex structure of chromosome 4A that contains two reciprocal translocations and two inversions, previously identified. An additional inversion in the centromeric region of 4A was revealed. A consensus map for homoeologous group 4 was developed from 119 ESTs unique to group 4. Forty-nine percent of these ESTs were found to be homoeologous to sequences on rice chromosome 3, 12% had matches with sequences on other rice chromosomes, and 39% had no matches with rice sequences at all. Limited homology (only 26 of the 119 consensus ESTs) was found between wheat ESTs on homoeologous group 4 and the Arabidopsis genome. Forty-two percent of the homoeologous group 4 ESTs could be classified into functional categories on the basis of blastX searches against all protein databases.
15514043	We constructed high-density deletion bin maps of wheat chromosomes 5A, 5B, and 5D, including 2338 loci mapped with 1052 EST probes and 217 previously mapped loci (total 2555 loci). This information was combined to construct a consensus chromosome bin map of group 5 including 24 bins. A relatively higher number of loci were mapped on chromosome 5B (38%) compared to 5A (34%) and 5D (28%). Differences in the levels of polymorphism among the three chromosomes were partially responsible for these differences. A higher number of duplicated loci was found on chromosome 5B (42%). Three times more loci were mapped on the long arms than on the short arms, and a significantly higher number of probes, loci, and duplicated loci were mapped on the distal halves than on the proximal halves of the chromosome arms. Good overall colinearity was observed among the three homoeologous group 5 chromosomes, except for the previously known 5AL/4AL translocation and a putative small pericentric inversion in chromosome 5A. Statistically significant colinearity was observed between low-copy-number ESTs from wheat homoeologous group 5 and rice chromosomes 12 (88 ESTs), 9 (72 ESTs), and 3 (84 ESTs).
15514044	To localize wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) ESTs on chromosomes, 882 homoeologous group 6-specific ESTs were identified by physically mapping 7965 singletons from 37 cDNA libraries on 146 chromosome, arm, and sub-arm aneuploid and deletion stocks. The 882 ESTs were physically mapped to 25 regions (bins) flanked by 23 deletion breakpoints. Of the 5154 restriction fragments detected by 882 ESTs, 2043 (loci) were localized to group 6 chromosomes and 806 were mapped on other chromosome groups. The number of loci mapped was greatest on chromosome 6B and least on 6D. The 264 ESTs that detected orthologous loci on all three homoeologs using one restriction enzyme were used to construct a consensus physical map. The physical distribution of ESTs was uneven on chromosomes with a tendency toward higher densities in the distal halves of chromosome arms. About 43% of the wheat group 6 ESTs identified rice homologs upon comparisons of genome sequences. Fifty-eight percent of these ESTs were present on rice chromosome 2 and the remaining were on other rice chromosomes. Even within the group 6 bins, rice chromosomal blocks identified by 1-6 wheat ESTs were homologous to up to 11 rice chromosomes. These rice-block contigs were used to resolve the order of wheat ESTs within each bin.
15514045	The objectives of this study were to develop a high-density chromosome bin map of homoeologous group 7 in hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), to identify gene distribution in these chromosomes, and to perform comparative studies of wheat with rice and barley. We mapped 2148 loci from 919 EST clones onto group 7 chromosomes of wheat. In the majority of cases the numbers of loci were significantly lower in the centromeric regions and tended to increase in the distal regions. The level of duplicated loci in this group was 24% with most of these loci being localized toward the distal regions. One hundred nineteen EST probes that hybridized to three fragments and mapped to the three group 7 chromosomes were designated landmark probes and were used to construct a consensus homoeologous group 7 map. An additional 49 probes that mapped to 7AS, 7DS, and the ancestral translocated segment involving 7BS also were designated landmarks. Landmark probe orders and comparative maps of wheat, rice, and barley were produced on the basis of corresponding rice BAC/PAC and genetic markers that mapped on chromosomes 6 and 8 of rice. Identification of landmark ESTs and development of consensus maps may provide a framework of conserved coding regions predating the evolution of wheat genomes.
15514271	Rice flour was proposed as a vehicle for iron and zinc fortification in Sri Lanka. Although widely consumed, rice flour has not been evaluated as a fortified food, and the absorption of minerals including iron and zinc from this flour is unknown. Determination of the bioavailability of these nutrients is a critical step before commencing a fortification program. We randomly divided 53 Sri Lankan schoolchildren ages 6-10 y into 4 groups that consumed a local dish prepared with 25 g of fortified rice flour labeled with one of the following: 1) (58)FeSO(4) 2) (58)FeSO(4) + Na(2)EDTA 3) (58)FeSO(4) + (67)ZnO or, 4) (58)FeSO(4) + Na(2)EDTA + (67)ZnO. The levels of iron and zinc were 60 mg/kg; the rice flour also contained folate at 2 mg/kg in each group. Na(2)EDTA was added at a Fe:Na(2)EDTA, 1:1 molar ratio. A total of 48 children completed the trial. Absorption of (58)Fe from a meal was significantly greater (P < 0.01) in the groups administered FeSO(4) + Na(2)EDTA (4.7 +/- 3.6%) than in those administered FeSO(4) without Na(2)EDTA (2.2 +/- 1.3%). Fractional absorption of zinc was 13.5 +/- 6.0% in the FeSO(4) + Na(2)EDTA group and 8.8 +/- 2.0% in the FeSO(4) group (P = 0.037). Although zinc absorption was low, our results demonstrated a benefit in using Na(2)EDTA to improve both iron and zinc absorption. We conclude that the fortification of rice flour is feasible, although additional strategies such as dephytinization or an increase in the level of iron and zinc fortification should be considered to obtain a higher proportion of the daily requirement of total absorbed iron and zinc.
15514441	The complicated genetic pathway regulates the developmental programs of male reproductive organ, anther tissues. To understand these molecular mechanisms, we performed cDNA microarray analyses and in situ hybridization to monitor gene expression patterns during anther development in rice. Microarray analysis of 4,304 cDNA clones revealed that the hybridization signal of 396 cDNA clones (271 non-redundant groups) increased more than six-fold in every stage of the anthers compared with that of leaves. Cluster analysis with the expression data showed that 259 cDNA clones (156 non redundant groups) were specifically or predominantly expressed in anther tissues and were regulated by developmental stage-specific manners in the anther tissues. These co-regulated genes would be important for development of functional anther tissues. Furthermore, we selected several clones for RNA in situ hybridization analysis. From these analyses, we found several novel genes that show temporal and spatial expression patterns during anther development in addition to anther-specific genes reported so far. These results indicate that the genes identified in this experiment are controlled by different programs and are specialized in their developmental and cell types.
15514442	The polyploid nature of wheat is a key characteristic of the plant. Full-length complementary DNAs (cDNAs) provide essential information that can be used to annotate the genes and provide a functional analysis of these genes and their products. We constructed a full-length cDNA library derived from young spikelets of common wheat, and obtained 24056 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from both ends of the cDNA clones. These ESTs were grouped into 3605 contigs using the phrap method, representing expressed loci from each of the three genomes. Using BLAST, 3605 contigs were grouped into 1902 gene clusters, showing that loci of the three genomes are not always expressed. A homology search of these gene clusters against a wheat EST database (15964 gene clusters) and a rice full-length cDNA database (21447 gene clusters) revealed that a quarter of the wheat full-length cDNAs were novel. A protein database of Arabidopsis was used to examine the functional classification of these gene clusters. The GC-content in the 5 -UTR region of wheat cDNAs was compared to that of rice. Forty-three genes (3.5% of wheat cDNAs homologous to those of rice) possessed distinct GC-content in the 5 -UTR region, suggesting different breeding behaviors of wheat and rice.
15516498	Xyloglucan endotransglucosylases/hydrolases (XTHs) that mediate cleavage and rejoining of the beta (1-4)-xyloglucans of the primary cell wall are considered to play an important role in the construction and restructuring of xyloglucan cross-links. A novel rice (Oryza sativa) XTH-related gene, OsXTH8, was cloned and characterized after being identified by cDNA microarray analysis of gibberellin-induced changes in gene expression in rice seedlings. OsXTH8 was a single copy gene; its full-length cDNA was 1,298 bp encoding a predicted protein of 290 amino acids. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that OsXTH8 falls outside of the three established subfamilies of XTH-related genes. OsXTH8 was preferentially expressed in rice leaf sheath in response to gibberellic acid. In situ hybridization and OsXTH8 promoter GUS fusion analysis revealed that OsXTH8 was highly expressed in vascular bundles of leaf sheath and young nodal roots where the cells are actively undergoing elongation and differentiation. OsXTH8 gene expression was up-regulated by gibberellic acid and there was very little effect of other hormones. In two genetic mutants of rice with abnormal height, the expression of OsXTH8 positively correlated with the height of the mutants. Transgenic rice expressing an RNAi construct of OsXTH8 exhibited repressed growth. These results indicate that OsXTH8 is differentially expressed in rice leaf sheath in relation to gibberellin and potentially involved in cell elongation processes.
15516765	From the black colored rice bran of Oryza sativa cv. Heugjinjubyeo, a new 2-arylbenzofuran, 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-4,6-dihydroxybenzofuran-3-carboxylic acid methyl ester, oryzafuran (1), was isolated. Its structure has been elucidated on the basis of spectral data. This compound showed strong antioxidative activity in a 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl free radical scavenging assay.
15519386	Impact of FEBRA (fermented brown rice with Aspergillus oryzae, a rich dietary fiber) intake on the concentrations of polychlorinated-biphenyls (PCBs), -dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (DLPCBs), -dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), and -dibenzofurans (PCDFs) in blood of nine married Japanese were studied for 2 years. Concentrations of total PCBs (average+/-standard deviation) were greater 326,000+/-263,000 and 207,000+/-89,000 in FEBRA-intake and non-FEBRA-intake groups, respectively, on pg/g lipid (from now onwards data expressed on pg/g lipid). DLPCBs were second major contaminants 94,000+/-77,000 and 60,000+/-28,000, orderly in FEBRA-intake and non-FEBRA-intake groups. The concentrations of PCDD/DFs were several orders of magnitude lower than those of PCBs, whereas PCDDs were greater (433+/-233 and 512+/-511, in FEBRA-intake and non-FEBRA-intake groups, respectively) than PCDFs (56+/-50 and 43+/-35). Calculated toxic equivalency (TEQ) concentrations were 34+/-24 and 23+/-10 in FEBRA-intake and non-FEBRA-intake groups, respectively. In order to corroborate the impact of FEBRA, the changes of PCDD/DFs and PCB concentrations for 0.5-year, 1-year, 1.5-year, and 2-year samples were estimated from average concentration of 1-day before study commences and 1-week study samples. The results explicit FEBRA-intake group eliminated 7%, 33%, 45%, 36%, and 26% and non-FEBRA-intake group eliminated 8%, 28%, 36%, 31%, and 20% of DLPCBs, PCDDs, PCDFs, PCDD/DF TEQ and total TEQ, respectively. This study is the first of its kind showing the possible elimination of PCDDs, PCDFs and their TEQ in humans from Japan after the consumption of FEBRA.
15519415	Fipronil insecticide has been widely used to control vegetable pests in China recently. The research was conducted to evaluate the fate of fipronil in vegetable-field ecosystem and provide the scientific basis of using this insecticide. Developed on the analytical methods of fipronil residue and its four metabolisms, the degradation dynamics of their residue in a vegetable and the soil of the vegetable fields was studied. The results showed that (1) degradation of fipronil was faster in pakchoi (half-life 2.6 days) than in soil (half-life 7.3 days); (2) degradation reaction occurred in soil was governed mainly by photodegradation and oxidization accompanying with production of the metabolites, MB46513 and MB46136. Reduction and hydrolyzation played little role in the degradation process. In pakchoi, degradation was mainly contributed by reduction though oxidization and hydrolyzation occurred simultaneously. The metabolite products were MB45950, MB46136 and RPA200766; (3) the final residue in pakchoi was at a level of 0.003 mg kg(-1), which was much lower than the USA's upper limit of 0.04 mg kg(-1) in rice. Therefore, a dosage of 24 g hm(-2) was suggested and considered as safe to human beings and animals.
15521424	The low fertility of naked seed rice (NSR) was investigated by the following observations: somatic chromosome constitute, behavior of pollen mother cells (PMCs), the germination of mature pollen grains, the development of male and female gametes and the structure of the anther opening. The results indicated that somatic chromosomal number was 2n = 24, behavior of PMCs were normal and most of pollen grains could regularly develop further to mature male gametophytes in NSR. And dehiscence chamber and thickened endothecium cell (TEC) in numerous anthers of the NSR were developed abnormally after dicaryotic phase, result in few anthers complete opening and most partly opening or failure to opening, therefore much fewer of pollen grains attach on the stigma as compared with normal variety. Furthermore most of embryo sacs possessed abnormal structure and were sterile. All of above illustrated that the failure of the anther opening and the abortion of female gametophyte were main factors controlling the low seed-setting rate of the NSR.
1552176	We have characterized a novel peptide-containing cell within the gastric mucosa of Xenopus laevis. The cell is a spherical, multinucleated syncytial structure containing a cytoplasmic space filled with dense rice-shaped granules, and is strikingly similar in morphology to the well-studied granular gland of the amphibian skin. Immunohistochemical and immunogold methods were used to demonstrate that several peptides previously isolated from the granular glands of the skin, including the antimicrobial peptides magainin and PGLa (a peptide with amino-terminal glycine and carboxy-terminal leucinamide), are also stored in granules present in these enteric cells. These data demonstrate that this enteric peptide-producing cell is strikingly similar both morphologically and biochemically to the granular gland, previously considered a highly specialized structure of the amphibian integument. This novel gastric mucosal cell, which we have designated a "granular multinucleated cell," is distinct in its morphology and its diversity of stored peptide products from other well-characterized peptide-containing cells in the vertebrate gastrointestinal tract.
15522077	Burkholderia glumae BGR1 produces a broad-host range phytotoxin, called toxoflavin, which is a key pathogenicity factor in rice grain rot and wilt in many field crops. Our molecular and genetic analyses of toxoflavin-deficient mutants demonstrated that gene clusters for toxoflavin production consist of four transcriptional units. The toxoflavin biosynthesis genes were composed of five genes, toxA to toxE, as Suzuki et al. (2004) reported previously. Genes toxF to toxI, which are responsible for toxoflavin transport, were polycistronic and similar to the genes for resistance-nodulation-division (RND) efflux systems. Using Tn3-gusA reporter fusions, we found that ToxR, a LysR-type regulator, regulates both the toxABCDE and toxFGHI operons in the presence of toxoflavin as a coinducer. In addition, the expression of both operons required a transcriptional activator, ToxJ, whose expression is regulated by quorum sensing. TofI, a LuxI homologue, was responsible for the biosynthesis of both N-hexanoyl homoserine lactone and N-octanoyl homoserine lactone (C8-HSL). C8-HSL and its cognate receptor TofR, a LuxR homologue, activated toxJ expression. This is the first report that quorum sensing is involved in pathogenicity by the regulation of phytotoxin biosynthesis and its transport in plant pathogenic bacteria.
15526759	The aims of this study were to investigate the influence of dietary zinc intake on physical growth and to clarify effects of dietary factors in preschool children. Food consumption of 30 children aged 5-6 years (15 boys and 15 girls) was surveyed using a weighing dietary method for three consecutive days each in spring and autumn. Daily nutrient intakes were calculated using the Standard Tables of Food Composition in Japan Fifth Revised Edition, 2000. The heights and weights were also measured in each season. They were classified into low, middle and high zinc intake groups, and their physical growth and dietary factors were compared. The average zinc intake was 6.4 +/- 1.1 mg/day in all children, which met the demands of the Japanese RDA (6.0 mg/day). Classification was a low zinc intake group (5.4 +/- 0.5 mg/day), a middle group (6.2 +/- 0.3 mg/day), and a high group (7.7 +/- 0.6 mg/day). The lower zinc intake group showed lower heights and weights, but all children who participated demonstrated increase during the 5 months from spring to autumn. In particular, increase in height in the low zinc intake group was the highest among the three groups. Regarding each food item contribution for the zinc intake, rice (20.53%), meat (16.28%), milk (15.57%), eggs (7.45%), and soybeans (6.87%) were the highest 5 of 19 items, accounting for 66.7% of the total. Zinc intake from vegetable foods (55%) was more than that from animal foods (45%). Intake of total energy, nutrients, and some food groups positively associated with average zinc intake. However, energy intake from confectionery in the lowest zinc intake group was highest among the three groups. Estimation of zinc intake of Japanese children using a weighing dietary method has suggested that even a relatively low dietary value might not significantly affect the physical growth of children. Rice is the main source and reduction of zinc intake from regular meals might be related to high consumption of confectionery.
15527414	The properties of rice-derived ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (rubisco) in different concentrations of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) solutions have been studied. The results indicate that at low H2O2 concentrations (0.2-10 mM), the properties of rubisco (e.g., carboxylase activities, structure, and susceptibility to heat denaturation) change slightly. However, at higher H2O2 concentrations (10-200 mM), rubisco undergoes an unfolding process, including the loss of secondary and tertiary structure, forming extended hydrophobic interface, and leading to cross-links between large subunits. High concentrations of H2O2 can also result in an increase in susceptibility of rubisco to heat denaturation. Further pre-treatments with or without reductive reagents to rubisco show that the disulfide bonds in rubisco help to protect the enzyme from damage by H2O2 as well as other reactive oxygen species.
15527943	Using an approach based on the Readthrough Candidate Extraction System (RCES), we extracted 111 candidates from 9620 gene sequences of rice. The results of homology search and sequence analysis demonstrated that these candidates included actual readthrough genes that would be important for further investigating the mechanism of translation termination regulated by readthrough event, and could also give some useful clues for functional genome annotation. Between the candidates and non-candidates of gene sequences in rice, there exist significant base biases at the positions surrounding the stop codons. These positions, especially both -1 and +4, are referred to as part of an extended stop signal. In candidates, G at position -1, and G or C at position +4 are much more favored than that in non-candidates. Both stop sequence patterns, GUAGC and GUGAG, might drive high readthrough efficiency in rice. Secondary structure analysis revealed that the -1 and +1 amino acids around the first stop codon of candidates have a strong bias toward arginine, particularly the +1 position (20.7%), which indicated that the amino acids at the readthrough region being frequently located in the hydrophilic region of beta-turn might be a determinant for efficient translation termination or not.
15527966	Telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) has been characterized in the dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana. A TERT homolog has now been identified in the monocotyledon rice (Oryza sativa L.) on the basis of its predicted homology to the A. thaliana enzyme (AtTERT). At least five alternatively spliced transcripts of the rice TERT (OsTERT) gene were detected. The full-length OsTERT protein shares structural features with TERTs of other species, including a calculated molecular size of 144 kDa, an isoelectric point of 9.6, and conserved sequence motifs. Phylogenetic analysis showed that OsTERT clusters with AtTERT and is more related to the human and mouse enzymes than to those of yeast and ciliated protozoa, consistent with the evolutionary relations among these eukaryotes. Telomerase activity was abundant in shoot apices and cultured cells but was low or absent in leaves or roots of rice plants, whereas similarly spliced OsTERT transcripts were detected in all tissues examined and cultured cells. Similar to mouse and human TERT proteins, OsTERT contains two putative phosphorylation sites for Akt kinase. Incubation of a rice cell extract with Akt or with protein phosphatase 2A potentiated or inhibited telomerase activity, respectively, whereas Akt did not affect the activity in Arabidopsis cell extract. In addition, the kinase activated the telomerase in a leaf extract. The mechanism of telomerase regulation in rice thus appears to differ from that in Arabidopsis (which is mediated predominantly at the level of AtTERT transcription), possibly reflecting the taxonomic distance between monocotyledons and dicotyledons.
15528200	4-Hydroxyproline is found in collagens, collagen-like proteins, elastin, and the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor in animals and in many hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins in plants. We report here on the cloning and characterization of a second plant P4H (prolyl 4-hydroxylase), At-P4H-2, from Arabidopsis thaliana. It consists of 299 amino acids and shows 33% sequence identity to the first characterized isoenzyme, At-P4H-1. A characteristic feature of the At-P4H-2 polypeptide is a 49-amino-acid C-terminal toxin homology domain with 6 cysteines that is not found in At-P4H-1 but is present in a putative rice P4H homologue. At-P4H-2 differed distinctly from At-P4H-1 in its substrate specificity. Recombinant At-P4H-2 hydroxylated poly(L-proline) and extensin and arabinogalactan-like peptides effectively but with much higher Km values than At-P4H-1, suggesting different roles for the two At-P4Hs in the plant cell. Unlike At-P4H-1, At-P4H-2 hydroxylated collagen-like peptides only very inefficiently and did not hydroxylate hypoxia-inducible transcription factor alpha-like peptides at all. All the peptides efficiently hydroxylated by At-P4H-2 had at least 3 consecutive prolines, suggesting that these may represent a minimum requirement for efficient hydroxylation by this isoenzyme. N-terminal sequencing of an extensin-like peptide SPPPVYKSPPPPVKHYSPPPV indicated that At-P4H-2 preferentially hydroxylated the 3rd proline in the C-terminal PPP triplet. The Km values of At-P4H-2 for the reaction cosubstrates Fe2+, 2-oxoglutarate, and ascorbate were similar to those of At-P4H-1 with the exception that the Km for iron was about 3-fold lower. Pyridine-2,4-dicarboxylate and pyridine-2,5-dicarboxylate, well known competitive inhibitors of the vertebrate P4Hs with respect to 2-oxoglutarate, were also competitive inhibitors of At-P4H-2 but with Ki values 5-100-fold higher than those of human type I collagen P4H. It thus seems that there are some distinct differences in the structure of the 2-oxoglutarate-binding site between At-P4H-2 and the animal collagen P4Hs.
15529396	D-Lactic acid was synthesized by the fermentation of rice starch using microorganisms. Two species: Lactobacillus delbrueckii and Sporolactobacillus inulinus were found to be active in producing D-lactic acid of high optical purity after an intensive screening test for D-lactic acid bacteria using glucose as substrate. Rice powder used as the starch source was hydrolyzed with a combination of enzymes: alpha-amylase, beta-amylase, and pullulanase to obtain rice saccharificate consisting of maltose as the main component. Its average gross yield was 82.5%. Of the discovered D-lactic acid bacteria, only Lactobacillus delbrueckii could ferment both maltose and the rice saccharificate. After optimizing the fermentation of the rice saccharificate using this bacterium, pilot scale fermentation was conducted to convert the rice saccharificate into D-lactic acid with a D-content higher than 97.5% in a yield of 70%. With this yield, the total yield of D-lactic acid from brown rice was estimated to be 47%, which is almost equal to the L-lactic acid yield from corn. The efficient synthesis of D-lactic acid can open a way to the large scale application of high-melting poly(lactic acid) that is a stereocomplex of poly(L-lactide) and poly(D-lactide). Schematic representation of the production of D-lactic acid starting from brown rice as described here.
15532691	Brown rice is used as a bait-carrier for the avicide DRC-1339 (3-chloro-4-methylaniline) when baiting blackbirds (Icteridae). In March and April 1996 and 1997, we assessed non-target granivorous bird use of rice-baited plots placed in harvested corn and soybean fields in eastern South Dakota for 168 observation hours. In both years combined, we identified 10 and 14 granivorous species in corn and soybean fields, respectively. In 1996 (X = 0.2, SE = 0.04) and 1997 (X = 1.2, SE = 0.38), total numbers of granivores min(-1) were similar between crops (P > or = 0.322). In 1996, bird numbers were higher (P = 0.069) in rice-baited fields (X = 0.3, SE = 0.07) than in unbaited reference fields (X = 0.1, SE = 0.04). In 1997, bird numbers (X = 1.2, SE = 0.38) did not differ between treatments (P = 0.456). Our data show that small numbers of non-target birds visited the rice-baited plots. However, total number of different individual birds using the plots was unknown.
15535118	The effect of exogenously applied glycinebetaine (GB) on the alleviation of damaging effects of NaCl treatment was studied in view of relative water content (RWC), malondialdehyde content, and the activity of some antioxidant enzymes in two rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars differing in salt tolerance (salt-tolerant Pokkali and--sensitive IR-28), comparatively. Both cultivars took up exogenously applied GB through their roots and accumulated it to considerable levels. Leaf RWC of both cultivars under salt treatment showed an increase with GB application. The activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), ascorbate peroxidase (AP), catalase (CAT), and glutathione reductase (GR) increased in leaves of Pokkali, but peroxidase (POX) activity decreased under salinity. In IR-28, the activities of SOD, AP and POX increased, whereas CAT and GR decreased upon exposure to salt treatment. When compared to the salt-treated group alone, GB application decreased the activities of SOD, AP, CAT, and GR in Pokkali, whereas it increased the activities of CAT and AP in IR-28 under salinity. However, the activity of POX in IR-28 under salinity showed a decrease with GB application compared to the NaCl group. In addition, lipid peroxidation levels of both cvs. under salt treatment showed a decrease with GB treatment. Therefore, we conclude that GB protects both rice seedlings from salinity-induced oxidative stress.
15535634	An unusually high occurrence of Culex tritaeniorhynchus Giles resting indoors during daytime was observed in a Japanese encephalitis (JE) endemic area, Bellary district, Karnataka, India. Cx. tritaeniorhynchus, the primary vector of JE in this area, was the dominant species collected, and its abundance showed two peaks corresponding to rice crops in the district. More specimens (n = 20,966) were found resting in indoor habitats than in outdoor vegetation (n = 383), despite the availability of outdoor resting sites. This resting behavior is opposite to the Cx. tritaeniorhynchus behavior reported in the majority of JE-affected areas, where this species was captured in small numbers from indoor resting sites. Increased endophilic resting behavior indicates that indoor residual insecticides may provide an effective control method in this area.
15535635	Collections of Anopheles albitarsis Arribalzaga s.l. were conducted from May 1996 to June 2000 to estimate the human biting rate, and mark-release-recapture experiments were carried out to estimate the daily survival probability. The density of An. albitarsis females showed a marked seasonal variation, with peaks as high as 629 individuals per human per night in the wet season. The low daily survival probability of 0.61 is an important factor limiting the vectorial capacity of An. albitarsis s.l. in southeastern Brazil.
15536256	It is necessary for rice breeders to understand the genetic basis of nutrient quality traits of rice. Essential amino acids are most important in determining the nutrient quality of rice grain and can affect the health of people who depend on rice as a staple food. In view of the paucity of genetic information available on essential amino acids in indica rice, we estimated the genetic main effects and genotype x environment (G x E) interaction effects on the content of essential amino acids. Nine cytoplasmic male sterile lines as females and five restorer lines as males were introduced in a North Carolina II design across environments. Estimates of the content of the essential amino acids valine, methionine, leucine and phenylalanine showed that they were mainly controlled by genetic main effects, while the contents of threonine, cysteine and isoleucine were mainly affected by G x E effects. In the case of genetic main effects, both cytoplasmic and maternal genetic effects were predominant for all essential amino acids, indicating that selection for improving essential amino acid content based on maternal performance would be more effective than that based on seeds. The total narrow-sense heritabilities were high and ranged from 0.72 to 0.83. Since general heritabilities for these essential amino acids (except for cysteine) were found to be much larger than G x E interaction heritability, the improvement of content of most essential amino acids under selection would be expected under various environments. Rice varieties such as Zhenan 3, Yinchao 1, T49, 26715, 102 and 1391 should be selected as optimal parents for increasing the content of most essential amino acids, while the total genetic effects from Zhexie 2, Xieqingzao, Gangchao 1, V20, Zuo 5 and Zhenshan 97 were mainly negative and these parents could decrease the contents of most essential amino acids.
15537165	An investigation of the chemical basis for rice allelopathy to the rice weed arrowhead (Sagittaria montevidensis) was undertaken using GC/MS and GC/MS/MS techniques. Twenty-five compounds were isolated and identified from the root exudates of both allelopathic and non-allelopathic rice varieties. Phenolics, phenylalkanoic acids, and indoles were among the chemical classes identified. Two indoles previously unreported in rice were detected in the exudates, 5-hydroxy-2-indolecarboxylic acid and 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid. Several other compounds identified in this study have not previously been reported in rice root exudates, namely mercaptoacetic acid, 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, and 4-vinylphenol. The levels of 15 compounds present in the exudates were quantified using GC/MS/MS. Six of the seven most abundant compounds were phenolic acids. Significant differences exist between the allelopathic and non-allelopathic cultivars in their production of three of these six compounds. Greater amounts of trans-ferulic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, and caffeic acid were detected in the exudates of allelopathic cultivars. The seventh compound, abietic acid, was significantly higher in the non-allelopathic cultivars.
15537166	In previous studies, 15 putative allelopathic compounds detected in rice root exudates were quantified by GC/MS/MS. In this study, multiple regression analysis on these compounds determined that five selected phenolics, namely caffeic, p-hydroxybenzoic, vanillic, syringic, and p-coumaric acids, from rice exudates were best correlated with the observed allelopathic effect on arrowhead (Sagittaria montevidensis) root growth. Despite this positive association, determination of the phenolic acid dose-response curve established that the amount quantified in the exudates was much lower than the required threshold concentration for arrowhead inhibition. A similar dose-response curve resulted from a combination of all 15 quantified compounds. Significant differences between the amounts of trans-ferulic acid, abietic acid, and an indole also existed between allelopathic and non-allelopathic rice cultivars. The potential roles of these three compounds in rice allelopathy were examined by chemoassay. Overall, neither the addition of trans-ferulic acid nor 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid to the phenolic mix significantly contributed to phytotoxicity, although at higher concentrations, trans-ferulic acid appeared to act antagonistically to the phytotoxic effects of the phenolic mix. The addition of abietic acid also decreased the inhibitory effect of the phenolic mix. These studies indicate that the compounds quantified are not directly responsible for the observed allelopathic response. It is possible that the amount of phenolic acids may be indirectly related to the chemicals finally responsible for the observed allelopathic effect.
15537306	Monascus purpureus NTU 601 is a strain that produces monacolin K, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and citrinin under solid culture conditions. Because citrinin is a mycotoxin and possesses nephrotoxic and hepatoxic effects, it has a negative impact on the acceptance of red mold rice by people. In this research, a simple and quick selection method for mutant strains with low citrinin production was designed based on the fact that citrinin possesses antibacterial activity for Bacillus subtilis and will form an inhibition zone around the colony of the Monascus strain. The mutant strain M. purpureus N 301 only produced 0.23 +/- 0.01 ppm citrinin, which was 50% less than that of the parent strain, and the monacolin K production was 481.29 +/- 7.98 ppm and maintained 91% productivity. M. purpureus N 310, the other mutant strain, produced 0.27 +/- 0.01 ppm citrinin, which was 41% less than that of the parent strain, and the monacolin K production was 526.29 +/- 5.54 ppm, which showed no significant changes when compared with the parent strain. The GABA content of the two strains was 5000 ppm, which is similar to that of the parent strain. The results showed that the method could be used to select red mold rice with low citrinin production.
15537689	The ABC model of flower development, established through studies in eudicot model species, proposes that petal and stamen identity are under the control of B-class genes. Analysis of B- and C-class genes in the grass species rice and maize suggests that the C- and B-class functions are conserved between monocots and eudicots, with B-class genes controlling stamen and lodicule development. We have undertaken a further analysis of the maize B-class genes Silky1, the putative AP3 ortholog, and Zmm16, a putative PI ortholog, in order to compare their function with the Arabidopsis B-class genes. Our results show that maize B-class proteins interact in vitro to bind DNA as an obligate heterodimer, as do Arabidopsis B-class proteins. The maize proteins also interact with the appropriate Arabidopsis B-class partner proteins to bind DNA. Furthermore, we show that maize B-class genes are capable of rescuing the corresponding Arabidopsis B-class mutant phenotypes. This demonstrates B-class activity of the maize gene Zmm16, and provides compelling evidence that B-class gene function is conserved between monocots and eudicots.
15538622	Through the use of subtractive hybridization analysis, we have identified 14 partial cDNA clones (pCa-DSRs) that are rapidly induced by dehydration in hot pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) roots. The predicted proteins encoded by Ca-DSRs are putatively involved in processes as diverse as primary and secondary metabolism, protein degradation, and stress responses, indicating the complexity of cellular responses to water deficit in hot pepper roots. Particularly, we investigated the detailed structural properties and expression profiles of Ca-DSR2 (Ca-DREBLP1: dehydration-responsive element binding-factor-like protein 1) encoding a protein that contains a single ERF/AP2 DNA-binding domain. Based on the conserved 14th valine and 19th glutamic acid residues in the ERF/AP2 domain, a basic amino acid stretch (PKKPAGRKKFR) near its N-terminal region, and DSAW signature sequence at the end of its ERF/AP2 domain, Ca-DREBLP1 was classified as a member of a DREB1-type subfamily. Gel retardation assays revealed that Ca-DREBLP1 was able to form a specific complex with the DRE/CRT motif, but not with the GCC box. When fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain, the Ca-DREBLP1(190-215) mutant could effectively function as a trans-activator in yeast. This suggests that the extreme C-terminal region plays an essential role in transcription activation. In hot pepper plants, Ca-DREBLP1 was rapidly induced by dehydration, high salinity and, to a lesser extent, mechanical wounding, but not by cold stress. Thus, although the structural features of Ca-DREBLP1 resemble those of the DREB1-type proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice plants, its induction patterns are reminiscent of the DREB2-type proteins, indicating that Ca-DREBLP1 is a novel class DREB subfamily in hot pepper.
15538652	Seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Koshihikari and cv. Tan-ginbozu) were cultivated on board the Space Shuttle STS-95 mission and changes in the morphology and the cell wall properties of coleoptiles were analyzed. In space, rice coleoptiles showed a spontaneous (automorphic) curvature toward the caryopsis in the elongating region. The angle of automorphic curvature was larger in Koshihikari than in a gibberellin-deficient dwarf cultivar, Tan-ginbozu, and the angle gradually decreased during the growth of coleoptiles in both cultivars. The more quickly expanding convex side of the bending region of the rice coleoptiles showed a greater extensibility of the cell wall than the opposite side. There was a significant correlation between the angle of curvature and the difference in the cell wall extensibility between the convex and the concave sides. Both the levels of the cell wall polysaccharides per unit length of coleoptile and the ratio of high-molecular-mass polysaccharides in the hemicellulose fraction were lower in the convex side than the concave one. Also, the activity of (1-->3),(1-->4)-beta-glucanases in the cell wall was higher in the convex side than the concave one. These results suggest that the uneven modifications of cell wall metabolism bring about the difference in the levels and the molecular size of the cell wall polysaccharides, thereby causing the difference in capacity of the cell wall to expand between the dorsal and the ventral sides, leading to the automorphic curvature of rice coleoptiles in space. The data also suggest the involvement of gibberellins in inducing the automorphic curvature under microgravity conditions.
15538860	An incorporation of ND(3) into protonated ammonia cluster ions NH(4)(+)(NH(3))(n-1) (n=3-9), together with a dissociation of the cluster ions, was observed in the collision of the cluster with ND(3) at collision energies ranging from 0.04 to 1.4 eV in the center-of-mass frame. The branching fractions of the cluster ion species produced in the reactions were obtained as a function of the collision energy. The branching fractions of the incorporation products were successfully explained in terms of the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (RRK) theory at collision energies lower than the binding energy of the cluster ion. In addition, the internal energy distributions of the parent cluster ions were determined, and found to be in good agreement with those predicted using the evaporative ensemble model. In incorporations at collision energies lower than the binding energy of the cluster ion, all of the collision energy was transferred to the internal energy of the cluster ions; subsequently, an evaporation of ammonia molecules occurred in an equilibrium process after a complete energy redistribution in the clusters. In contrast, at collision energies higher than the binding energy of the cluster ion, a release of an ammonia molecule from the incorporation products occurred in a nonequilibrium process. The transition from the complex mode to the direct mode in the incorporation was observed at collision energies approximately equal to the binding energy. On the other hand, the collision energy dependence of the cross sections for the dissociation and for a nonreactive collision were estimated by a RRK simulation in which the collision energy transfer was interpreted by using the classical hard-sphere collision model. A relationship between reactivity and reaction modes in the collision of NH(4)(+)(NH(3))(4) with ND(3) is discussed via a comparison of the experimental results with the RRK simulation.
15540651	The recently completed genome sequence of the model plant species Arabidopsis has been estimated to encode over 25,000 proteins, which, on the basis of their function, can be classified into structural and metabolic (the vast majority of plant proteins), protective proteins, which defend a plant against invasion by pathogens or feeding by pests, and storage proteins, which proved a nutrient store to support germination in seeds. It is now clear that almost all plant food allergens are either protective or storage proteins. It is also becoming evident that those proteins that trigger the development of an allergic response through the gastrointestinal tract belong primarily to two large protein superfamilies: (1) The cereal prolamin superfamily, comprising three major groups of plant food allergens, the 2S albumins, lipid transfer proteins, and cereal alpha-amylase/trypsin inhibitors, which have related structures, and are stable to thermal processing and proteolysis. They include major allergens from Brazil nut, peanuts, fruits, such as peaches, and cereals, such as rice and wheat; (2) The cupin superfamily, comprising the major globulin storage proteins from a number of plant species. The globulins have been found to be allergens in plant foods, such as peanuts, soya bean, and walnut; (3) The cyteine protease C1 family, comprising the papain-like proteases from microbes, plants, and animals. This family contains two notable allergens that sensitize via the GI tract, namely actinidin from kiwi fruit and the soybean allergen, Gly m Bd 30k/P34. This study describes the properties, structures, and evolutionary relationships of these protein families, the allergens that belong to them, and discusses them in relation to the role protein structure may play in determining protein allergenicity.
1554245	The effects of the phenoxy acetic herbicides 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4D) and methylchlorophenoxy acetic acid (MCPA) on growth, photosynthesis, and nitrogenase activity of cyanobacteria has been investigated. Concentrations ranging from 10(-9) to 10(-3) M did not change significantly the parameters of Anabaena UAM 202. Concentrations higher than 10(-3) M of both herbicides were toxic. The primary toxic action of these herbicides in Anabaena UAM 202 was on photosynthesis.
15542491	Previous studies have shown that the promoter from the barley (Hordeum vulgare) phosphate transporter gene, HvPht1;1, activates high levels of expression in rice (Oryza sativa) roots and that the expression level was induced by up to 4-fold in response to phosphorus (P) deprivation. To identify promoter regions controlling gene regulation specificities, successive promoter truncations were made and attached to reporter genes. Promoters of between 856 and 1,400 nucleotides activated gene expression in a number of cell types but with maximal expression in trichoblast (root hair) cells. For shorter promoters the trichoblast specificity was lost, but in other tissues the distribution pattern was unchanged. The low P induction response was unaffected by promoter length. Domain exchange experiments subsequently identified that the region between -856 and -547 nucleotides (relative to the translational start) is required for epidermal cell expression. A second region located between 0 and -195 nucleotides controls root-tip expression. The HvPht1;1 promoter contains one PHO-like motif and three motifs similar to the dicot P1BS element. Analysis of promoters from which the PHO-like element was eliminated (by truncation) showed no change in the gene induction response to P deficiency. In contrast, mutation of the P1BS elements eliminated any induction of gene expression in response to low P. An internal HvPht1;1 promoter fragment, incorporating a single P1BS element, had an increased response to P deprivation in comparison with the unmodified promoter (containing three elements). Together these findings further our understanding of the regulation of the HvPht1;1 gene and provide direct evidence for a functional role of the P1BS element in the expression of P-regulated genes.
15542500	The NB mitochondrial genome found in most fertile varieties of commercial maize (Zea mays subsp. mays) was sequenced. The 569,630-bp genome maps as a circle containing 58 identified genes encoding 33 known proteins, 3 ribosomal RNAs, and 21 tRNAs that recognize 14 amino acids. Among the 22 group II introns identified, 7 are trans-spliced. There are 121 open reading frames (ORFs) of at least 300 bp, only 3 of which exist in the mitochondrial genome of rice (Oryza sativa). In total, the identified mitochondrial genes, pseudogenes, ORFs, and cis-spliced introns extend over 127,555 bp (22.39%) of the genome. Integrated plastid DNA accounts for an additional 25,281 bp (4.44%) of the mitochondrial DNA, and phylogenetic analyses raise the possibility that copy correction with DNA from the plastid is an ongoing process. Although the genome contains six pairs of large repeats that cover 17.35% of the genome, small repeats (20-500 bp) account for only 5.59%, and transposable element sequences are extremely rare. MultiPip alignments show that maize mitochondrial DNA has little sequence similarity with other plant mitochondrial genomes, including that of rice, outside of the known functional genes. After eliminating genes, introns, ORFs, and plastid-derived DNA, nearly three-fourths of the maize NB mitochondrial genome is still of unknown origin and function.
15545052	Response surface methodology (with central composite rotatable design for k=3) was used to investigate the product properties of extruded rice-cowpea-groundnut blends in a single screw extruder. The combined effect of cowpea (0-20%), groundnut (0-10%), and feed moisture (14-48%) levels were used for formulation of the products. The product moisture, expansion ratio, bulk density and total colour change were studied using standard analytical methods. Well-expanded rice-legume blend extrudates of less bulk density and lower moisture content were produced at low feed moisture. Increasing legume addition affected the various shades of colour in the product. Models developed for the indices gave R(2) values ranging from 52.8% (for the b-value) to 86.5% (for bulk density). The models developed suggested that the optimal process variables for the production of a puffed snack with an enhanced nutrition and spongy structure from a rice-cowpea-groundnut blend are low feed moisture of 14-20% and maximum additions of 20% cowpea and 10% groundnut. A lack-of-fit test showed no significance, indicating that the models adequately fitted the data.
15546240	Folic acid deficiency is very rare in Japan. However, recent concerns in relation to causal relationships between cancer and low folic acid levels necessitate information on actual folate intake by Japanese, which has hitherto not been well studied. We therefore evaluated folate contents of a hospital diet for 7 consecutive days and of 16 lunch boxes purchased at convenience stores. Dietary intake was assessed for weighed food items after cooking using our previously published data on folate contents of various foods and also by using Standard Tables of Food Composition in Japan (STFCJ). Mean daily folate intake from the hospital diet was 723.9 microg/day using our data but only 359.2 microg/day if calculated using the STFCJ. Twenty-nine % of the total daily folate intake was through rice. Mean folate intake through lunch boxes was 491.7 microg/day by our tabulation and 139.5 microg/day with the STFCJ. Folic acid intake of Japanese is far above the levels taken in other countries and over half of this amount is taken from rice. Levels of folic acid contents (especially in rice) listed in the STFCJ are too low and revision is strongly suggested.
15546924	As with other crop species, Al tolerance in rice (Oryza sativa) is widely different among cultivars, and the mechanism for tolerance is unknown. The Ca2+-displacement hypothesis, that is, Al displaces Ca2+ from critical sites in the root apoplast, was predicted to be the essential mechanism for causing Al toxicity in rice cultivars. If displacement of Ca is an essential cause of Al toxicity in rice, Al toxicity may show the same trend as toxicities of elements such as Sr and Ba that are effective in displacing Ca. The interactive effects of Al, Ca, Sr and Ba on root elongation of rice cultivars with different Al tolerances were evaluated in hydroponic culture. Al and Ca accumulation in root tips was also investigated. Not only Al but also Sr and Ba applications inhibited root growth of rice cultivars under low Ca conditions. As expected, rice cultivars more tolerant of Sr and Ba were also tolerant of Al (japonica > indica). Although Mg application did not affect Sr or Ba toxicity, Mg alleviated Al toxicity to the same level as Ca application. In addition, Ca application decreased the Al content in root tips without displacement. These results suggest that Ca does not have a specific, irreplaceable role in Al toxicity, unlike Sr and Ba toxicities. Alleviation of Al toxicity with increasing concentrations of Ca in rice cultivars is due to increased ionic strength, not due to decreased Al activity. The difference in Al tolerance between indica and japonica cultivars disappears under high ionic strength conditions, suggesting that different electrochemical characteristics of root-tip cells are related to the significant difference in Al tolerance under low ionic strength conditions.
15547721	Modifying effect of fermented brown rice by Aspergillus Oryzae (FBRA) during the initiation or post-initiation phase of N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA)-induced esophageal tumorigenesis was investigated in rats. Five-week-old male F344 rats were divided into 7 groups, and groups 1-5 were given subcutaneous injections of NMBA (0.5 mg/kg body weight/injection 15 times) for 5 weeks starting at 7 weeks of age. Groups 2 and 4 were fed the diet containing 5 and 10% FBRA during the initiation phase, respectively, whereas groups 3 and 5 were fed these diets during the post-initiation phase. Group 6 was given the diet containing 10% FBRA throughout the experiment, and group 7 was kept on the basal diet alone and served as an untreated control. Incidence and multiplicity of esophageal neoplasms of group 1 (NMBA alone) were 89% and 1.63+/-1.01/rat, respectively. Those of groups 3 (65%, 1.04+/-1.04) and 5 (58%, 0.77+/-0.86) were significantly less than those of group 1. Furthermore, the incidence and multiplicity of esophageal preneoplastic lesions (dysplasia) of group 5 were less than those of group 1. Post-initiation feeding of 10% FBRA significantly decreased BrdU incorporation in the non-lesional esophageal tissues when compared to that of the control. In addition, the analysis of expression levels of phase I enzymes of livers at the termination of experiment showed no clear differences among the groups. These observations indicate for the first time that FBRA inhibits NMBA-induced esophageal tumor development in rats possibly through inhibition of cell proliferation in the post-initiation phase, and suggest that FBRA is a promising dietary agent for prevention of human esophageal cancer.
15548736	The components of chloroplast translation are similar to those of prokaryotic translation but contain some additional unique features. Proteomic analysis of the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii chloroplast ribosome identified an S1-like protein, plastid-specific ribosomal protein-7 (PSRP-7), as a stoichiometric component of the 30S subunit. Here, we report that PSRP-7 is part of a polyprotein that contains PSRP-7 on its amino end and two translation elongation factor Ts (EF-Ts) domains at the carboxy end. We named this polyprotein PETs (for polyprotein of EF-Ts). Pets is a single-copy gene containing the only chloroplast PSRP-7 and EF-Ts sequences found in the C. reinhardtii genome. The pets precursor transcript undergoes alternative splicing to generate three mRNAs with open reading frames (ORFs) of 1.68, 1.8, and 3 kb. A 110-kD pro-protein is translated from the 3-kb ORF, and the majority of this protein is likely posttranslationally processed into the 65-kD protein PSRP-7 and a 55-kD EF-Ts. PETs homologs are found in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa). The conservation of the 110-kD PETs polyprotein in the plant kingdom suggests that PSRP-7 and EF-Ts function together in some aspects of chloroplast translation and that the PETs pro-protein may have a novel function as a whole.
15548946	The anticancer efficacy of tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF) was evaluated during diethylnitrosamine (DEN)/2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in male Sprague-Dawley rats. TRF treatment was carried out for 6 months, and was started 2 weeks before initiation phase of hepatocarcinogenesis. Morphological examination of the livers from DEN/AAF rats showed numerous off-white patches and few small nodules, which were significantly reduced by TRF treatment. Cytotoxic damage by DEN/AAF was estimated by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) release into the plasma from the cell membranes. DEN/AAF caused a twofold increase in the activity of ALP in plasma as compared with normal control rats, and this increase was prevented significantly by TRF treatment. We observed an increase of 79% in liver ALP activity in DEN/AAF rats, which was further increased by another 48% after the administration of TRF. Hepatic activity of glutathione S-transferase (GST) was also increased (3.5-fold) during the induction of hepatic carcinogenesis. Lipid peroxidation and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation increased threefold following initiation by DEN/AAF as compared with normal control rats. However, TRF treatment to DEN/AAF-treated rats substantially decreased (62-66%) the above parameters and thus limited the action of DEN/AAF. We conclude that long-term intake of TRF could reduce cancer risk by preventing hepatic lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation damage due to its antioxidant actions.
15549230	Epistasis is considered to be a primary genetic basis of hybrid breakdown. We found novel epistatic genes causing hybrid breakdown in an intraspecific cross of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.). F2 progeny derived from a cross between a Japonica variety, Asominori, and an Indica variety, IR24, showed segregation of high sterility for seeds, even though the reciprocal F1 hybrids showed about 60% seed fertility. Backcross populations (BC3F2, BC3F3), obtained from repeated backcrossing with Asominori, showed the segregation of causal genes in a simple Mendelian fashion. Using these populations, we identified that this sterility was hybrid breakdown caused by interaction among three nuclear genes distributed on the both parental genomes. These new genes, designated as hsa1, hsa2, and hsa3, were found to be involved in female gamete development by histological examination. The Indica parent IR24 has a sterile allele, hsa1-IR, which was located at near RFLP marker G148 on chromosome 12, whereas the Japonica parent Asominori has two sterile alleles, hsa2-As on chromosome 8 (close to G104) and hsa3-As on chromosome 9 (close to RM285). Female gametes carrying the hsa1-IR, hsa2-As, and hsa3-As alleles aborted in hsa1-IR homozygous plant, leading to seed sterility and selective elimination of the specific allelic combination. This study provides direct evidence that hybrid breakdown is attributed to epistatic interaction of genes from both parents and suggests that complicated mechanisms has been developed for hybrid breakdown during the evolution of rice.
15549231	Resistance to the brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens Stal, a devastating sucking insect pest of rice, is an important breeding objective in rice improvement programs. Bph15, one of the 17 major BPH resistance genes so far identified in both cultivated and wild rice, has been identified in an introgression line, B5, and mapped on chromosome 4 flanked by restriction fragment length polymorphism markers C820 and S11182. In order to pave the way for positional cloning of this gene, we have developed a high-resolution genetic map of Bph15 by positioning 21 DNA markers in the target chromosomal region. Mapping was based on a PCR-based screening of 9,472 F(2) individuals derived from a cross between RI93, a selected recombinant inbred line of B5 bearing the resistance gene Bph15, and a susceptible variety, Taichung Native 1, in order to identify recombinant plants within the Bph15 region. Recombinant F(2) individuals with the Bph15 genotype were determined by phenotype evaluation. Analysis of recombination events in the Bph15 region delimited the gene locus to an interval between markers RG1 and RG2 that co-segregated with the M1 marker. A genomic library of B5 was screened using these markers, and bacterial artificial chromosome clones spanning the Bph15 chromosome region were obtained. An assay of the recombinants using the sub-clones of these clones in combination with sequence analysis delimited the Bph15 gene to a genomic segment of approximately 47 kb. This result should serve as the basis for eventual isolation of the Bph15 resistance gene.
15549232	A quantitative trait locus (QTL) associated with the protein content of cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1; EC 6.3.1.2) in senescing leaves, panicle number, and panicle weight was characterized in rice (Oryza sativa L.). A near-isogenic line (NIL), C-22, developed by marker-assisted selection was grown under different nitrogen levels in the greenhouse and in a paddy field. Chromosome 2 of C-22 had an approximately 50-cM segment substituted from the Kasalath (indica) chromosome in a Koshihikari (japonica) genetic background. C-22 showed a 12-37% lower content of GS1 protein in leaf blades than Koshihikari, which was in good agreement with a QTL region positively affected by the japonica chromosome. At an early vegetative stage, C-22 had more active tillers than Koshihikari in the greenhouse. At the reproductive stage, both panicle number and total panicle weight of C-22 were significantly higher than those of Koshihikari, particularly when the plants were grown under a low-nitrogen condition. These traits of C-22 were further confirmed in a paddy field. Thus, tiller development was positively affected by the Kasalath chromosome at an early vegetative stage, which resulted in an increased panicle number and panicle weight at the mature stage in C-22. These data indicate that the target QTL (Pnn1; panicle number 1) is important in the development of tillers and panicles in rice. Linkage analyses for panicle number and ratio of developing tiller formation in the second axil (RDT) revealed that Pnn1 was delimited at the 6.7-cM region.
15550778	Oryza sativa endornavirus (OSV) belongs to a new genus (Endornavirus) and family (Endoviridae) with members containing large double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) replicons with plasmid-like properties. Analysis of products obtained from in vitro reaction of the OSV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase revealed a rapid increase of a population of the non-coding strand RNA molecules with a head-to-tail composition. Northern hybridization of total RNA from OSV-carrier cells with riboprobes specific for the coding strand RNA, revealed two types of RNA molecules (i) with a site specific nick and (ii) full-length unnicked molecules. Quantitative analyses of these RNAs showed about 50-fold higher amounts of full-length unnicked molecules in cultured cells in which the OSV copy number increases compared with those found in the seedling cells. Both the head-to-tail linked non-coding strand and the full-length coding strand molecules were also found in wild rice and broad beans infected with other endornaviruses indicating that the presence of these unique types of RNA molecules should be considered as a characteristic feature of Endoviridae .
15551043	The genetic mechanism underlying six palatability properties of cooked rice and three physico-chemical traits was dissected in 66 BC(3)F(2) chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs), using a complete linkage map in three successive years. The CSSLs showed transgressive segregation for all traits studied. Significant correlation was detected among most palatability traits. A total of 25 QTLs for the nine traits were identified on nine chromosomes, and many QTLs affecting different quality traits were mapped in the same regions. Six QTLs--qLT-8 for luster, qTD-6 and qTD-8 for tenderness, qIVOE-6 and qIVOE-8 for integrated value of organoleptic evaluation, and qAC-8 for amylose content--were repeatedly detected across the 3 years. Phenotypic values were significantly different between the recurrent parent, cultivar Asominori, and the CSSLs harboring any of the six QTL alleles across the three environments, indicating that these six QTLs were non-environment-specific and could be used for marker-assisted selection in rice quality improvement.
15552048	An advanced backcross strategy was used to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with plant height and days to heading in the BC3F2 population derived from an accession of common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) from Yuanjiang in Yunnan Province of China, as the donor, and an elite Indica cultivar "Teqing", as the recipient. Based on analyses of 116 SSR markers distributed throughout the rice genome and by using single-point analysis, four putative QTLs derived from O. rufipogon were detected for plant height on chromosome 1, and 6 QTLs for days to heading on chromosome 1, 3, 7, 8 and 11. All Alleles of QTLs for plant height from O. rufipogon could increase plant height of the backcross population. One QTL near RM104 on chromosome 1, explaining 27% and 28% of phenotypic variance and additive value reached 26.24 cm and 26.28 cm respectively in Beijing and Hefei, was detected. The location of this QTL is corresponding to sd-1. One QTL near the marker RM25 on chromosome 1, explaining 13% and 15% of phenotypic variance was identified. The additive value of this QTL reached 4.60 days and 3.65 days respectively in Beijing and Hefei, and the allele from O. rufipogon could delay the backcross population's days to heading.
15552049	Distorted segregation of the brittle culm-1 gene (bc1) on rice chromosome 3 was found with greatly increased or decreased frequency of bc1 bc1 genotype in inter-subspecific hybrids, although the gene normally transmitted to its offspring following the Mendelian Law in intra-subspecific hybrids. In a combination of Kamairazu//Ketan Nangka/Kamairazu,an increased frequency of bc1 bc1 in F1, normal segregation in F2, and increased and decreased frequency in a few F3 and F4 lines were observed. In a cross of IR36/Kamairazu, decreased frequency in F2, both normal and decreased segregations in F3 and F4, and a few lines of increased ratio in F4 were found. In F2 of Ketan Nangka/IR36//Kamairazu, increased and decreased and normal segregations were all observed. There was no significant correlation between the frequency of bc1 bc1 and pollen fertility. It implied that distorted segregation of bc1 was caused by selective fertilization of male gametes, which were governed by gametophyte genes of ga2, ga3 and ga14 on chromosome 3.
15553245	AvrXa7 is a member of the avBs3/pthA gene family and the only known type III secretion system effector gene from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae with a major contribution to bacterial growth and lesion formation in bacterial blight disease of rice. We examined the general requirement for effectors of the AvrBs3/PthA family in bacterial blight of rice by identifying effectors from diverse strains of the pathogen. Inactivation of single effector genes in representative strains from Japan, Korea, and the Philippines resulted in severely limited growth in plants. Five strains harbored one gene of the avrBs3/pthA family, while one strain had two genes with the equivalent virulence activity of avrXa7. Sequence analysis revealed three genes with unique repeat arrangements in comparison to avrXa7. Comparison of the repetitive regions revealed a potential motif for the group that was also present in the repetitive region of avrBs3. However, the repetitive region of avrBs3 could not support virulence activity but, in combination with the C-terminal coding region of avrXa7, triggered a Xa7-dependent avirulence reaction. The results revealed diverse members of the avrBs3/pthA gene family with virulence activity in X. oryzae pv. oryzae and supported the hypothesis that bacterial blight disease of rice is highly dependent on a single class of type III effectors. The results also indicated that avrXa7 avirulence specificity is separable from virulence activity.
15556301	We determined the complete nucleotide sequence of the chloroplast genome of wild rice, Oryza nivara and compared it with the corresponding published sequence of relative cultivated rice, Oryza sativa. The genome was 134,494 bp long with a large single-copy region of 80,544 bp, a small single-copy region of 12,346 bp and two inverted repeats of 20,802 bp each. The overall A+T content was 61.0%. The O. nivara chloroplast genome encoded identical functional genes to O. sativa in the same order along the genome. On the other hand, detailed analysis revealed 57 insertion, 61 deletion and 159 base substitution events in the entire chloroplast genome of O. nivara. Among substitutions, transversions were much higher than transitions with the former even more frequent than the latter in the coding region. Most of the insertions/deletions were single-base but a few large length mutations were also detected. The frequency of insertion/deletion events was more in the coding region within inverted repeats. In contrast, a very few substitution events were identified in the coding region. Polymorphism was observed among rice cultivars at loci of large insertion/deletion events. This is the first report describing comparative and genome wide chloroplast analysis between a wild and cultivated crop.
15557090	Through a biochemical and a genetic approach, we have identified several plant genes encoding methylthioribose (MTR) kinase, an enzyme involved in recycling of methionine through the methylthioadenosine (MTA) cycle. OsMTK1, an MTR kinase from rice (Oryza sativa), is 48.6 kD in size and shows cooperative kinetics with a V(max) of 4.9 pmol/min and a K0.5 of 16.8 microm. MTR kinase genes are the first genes to be identified from the MTA cycle in plants. Insertional mutagenesis of the unique AtMTK gene in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) resulted in an inability of plants to grow on MTA as a supplemental sulfur source. MTK knock-out plants were not impaired in growth under standard conditions, indicating that the MTA cycle is a nonessential metabolic pathway in Arabidopsis when sulfur levels are replete. In rice, OsMTK genes were strongly up-regulated in shoots and roots when plants were exposed to sulfur starvation. Gene expression was largely unaffected by lack of nitrogen or iron in the nutrient solution, indicating that OsMTK regulation was linked specifically to sulfur metabolism.
1555887	The relation between diet and lung cancer was studied among male residents of a mining community in Yunnan Province. After obtaining food frequency data from subjects or proxies, we compared diets of 428 cases, aged 35-74 years, and 1,011 age-matched controls. Cases tended to consume slightly more rice, but less protein-rich foods (i.e., bean curd, meat, eggs) and vegetables than did controls. The relative risks of lung cancer across increasing quartiles of meat (i.e., pork) consumption, for example, were 1.00, 0.67, 0.72 and 0.46 (p for trend less than 0.01). The relative risks of lung cancer across increasing quartiles of consumption of dark-green, leafy vegetables were 1.00, 0.62, 0.52 and 0.41 (p for trend less than 0.01). Although specific dietary constituent(s) responsible for the protective effect of vegetable consumption could not be identified, carotenoids other than beta-carotene, or compounds in cruciferous or Allium vegetables, are possibilities.
15559951	The amount of water Bulgaria uses for irrigation sharply declined during the transition. Large sections of the existing irrigation systems were abandoned, and those still in use are hardly maintained. Crops such as wheat and barley have replaced more water-intensive crops, such as vegetables, rice, and maize. This problem has an impact on the future development of agriculture and the allocation of the country's water resources. The central argument is that land fragmentation in the wake of decollectivization and restitution contributes to the irrigation systems' abandonment. This article focuses on the institutional factors involved, but also considers additional factors that might have influenced the process. Further, it examines the causes driving these changes and analyzes their effect on irrigation. It is based on a review of the relevant legislation as well as fieldwork in 17 villages located in the Plovdiv region of Bulgaria. The article concludes that institutional settings, in addition to changes in large-scale market forces and the state enforcement mechanism, have contributed to the irrigation decline in Bulgaria.
15560224
15560260	Treatment of whole plants with jasmonic acid methyl ester induces lectin activity in leaves of Oryza sativa, Hordeum vulgare, Triticum vulgare, Secale cereale and Zea mays. Purification and characterization of the lectins revealed that they all have a very similar molecular structure and carbohydrate-binding properties. Further analysis of the cDNA clones encoding the lectins revealed that they all belong to the family of cytoplasmic mannose-specific jacalin-related lectins.
15560932	Acrylamide is known for its potential health hazards. Recently acrylamide was found in starch containing heated foods in high concentrations which lead to the assumption that a cancer risk could be associated with the uptake of foods containing high amounts of acrylamide. This study focuses on the analysis of acrylamide in foods potentially containing this substance which is formed from natural ingredients. The highest concentrations were found in potato crisps with concentrations of above 1500 ng/g (median: 499 ng/g). Other food groups contained lower amounts: cookies with a median of 99 ng/g; crisp bread with a median of 69 ng/g; breakfast cereals with a median of 0 ng/g; popcorn and rice products with a median of 97 ng/g; potato chips with a median of 161 ng/g and coffee with a median of 169 ng/g.
15561491	The prevalence of hypertension in individuals with diabetes mellitus is higher than that in individuals without diabetes mellitus. High fiber intake decreases blood glucose and lipids levels. This study investigated the effects of cereal fiber intake on systolic and diastolic blood pressures in a rat model of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Thirty male Goto Kakizaki rats were randomly assigned to one of three groups. Each group was fed a barley diet, a white rice diet, or cornstarch diet. The rats were pair fed for 16 wk. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures were measured once every 4 wk by the photoelectric oscillometric tail-cuff method without anesthesia. The barley diet significantly decreased systolic blood pressure from week 12 and decreased the plasma levels of total cholesterol, triacylglycerol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. There were significant positive correlations between plasma lipids levels and systolic blood pressure. High fiber intake has beneficial effects on systolic blood pressure and blood lipids levels and suggests that fiber intake should be increased in individuals who have diabetes mellitus to prevent complications.
15562873	To review the effects of technological processing on selected foods of relevance to childhood allergy from the viewpoints of reduced allergenicity, contamination of processed foods by allergens introduced during processing, and ad hoc technologies to produce reduced hypoallergenic products. We searched the literature (PubMed/MEDLINE) for articles published between January 1994 and April 2004 using the following keywords: food allergy AND process* OR heat* OR cooking OR toleran*. We drew on our collective clinical and biological experience to restrict retrieved studies to those of more frequent relevance to a hospital allergy practice. Comparatively few clinical studies address the modification of allergenicity of food through cooking or processing. Dairy foods are largely unaffected by processing and may be contaminated by, or themselves become, hidden allergens. Hypoallergenic formulas based on milk, soy, or rice and homogenized beef are successful applications of allergenicity reduction via technological processing. Egg, fish, condiments, and vegetables all carry heat-resistant allergens and should also be considered contaminants. Cereals and bakery products are generally well tolerated, but their allergenicity may be enhanced by processing; the case of rice is still open. Peanut allergens are stable, and the evidence is scant that thermal processing affects the allergenicity of soybean and soy hydrolysates. The debate is ongoing about the tolerance of vegetable oils. It is too early to systematize clinical studies based on single procedures. Processing affects antigenicity, but this does not always translate into safety recommendations. Industrial processing is liable to contamination, and monitoring and labeling are industry priorities. Clinicians should evaluate foods by as complete a workup as possible before recommending processed foods.
15563026	A comparative study of growth rate and feed intake and its utilization in male and female Mithun calves was carried out in hilly tracts of Nagaland. The animals of both sexes were fed fresh jungle grasses ad libitum and 2.0 kg of rice bran fortified with 1% mineral mixture and 1% salt daily. Growth rates of 369.50 and 305.67 g/day were observed in male and female calves, respectively. Sex-related differences in feed and nutrient intakes were statistically significant, whereas no significant difference was found in digestibility coefficients of nutrients between the groups as well as among the animals. Dry matter, digestible crude protein and total digestible nutrient intakes were recorded to be 107.81, 8.08 and 74.73 g/kgW0.75 per day, respectively, irrespective of sex. Feed conversion efficiency (FCE) and nutritive value of the ration were similar in both male and female calves. Results obtained from the study indicate that the growth rate and nutrient intakes were higher in male than female calves but the sex of the animal did not have any significant effect on nutrient utilization.
15563213	Rice husks are of a lignocellulosic nature, with a hemicellulose fraction made up of substituted arabinoxylan. Rice husks were treated with hot, compressed water (autohydrolysis reaction) under optimized conditions to cause the hydrolytic degradation of arabinoxylan. The reaction products contained volatile components and nonvolatile components (NVC), which were made up of hemicellulose-derived products (substituted oligosaccharides and monosaccharides) and other nonvolatile solutes (ONVS). To decrease the content of ONVS, concentrated autohydrolysis liquors were first subjected to ethyl acetate extraction and then subjected to various alternative treatments (solvent precipitation, freeze-drying solvent extraction, or ion exchange). The resulting liquors were assayed for composition and yield determination. Material balances are presented for the several processes considered. The best results in terms of purification were obtained with sequential stages of ethyl acetate extraction and ion exchange, which led to concentrates with hemicellulose-derived compounds (sugars and substituted sugar oligomers) accounting for 92 wt % of the NVCs.
15563444	Several nutrition and non-nutritional pathways are recognised in the development and occurrence of cardiovascular disease. In many populations, high intakes of saturated fat are associated with elevated serum cholesterol concentrations and increased coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality. However, several studies report that hyperlipidaemia and heart diseases are not common among populations who consume coconut, a source of saturated fat. A case-control study was conducted among the Minangkabau known to be high coconut consumers to examine the difference in food patterns and risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) between the coronary cases and their gender- and age-matched apparently healthy counterparts serving as controls. Eligible subjects with CHD were identified through the co-operation of five participating hospitals located in Padang and Bukittinggi in West Sumatra, Indonesia. A total of 93 eligible cases (62 men and 31 women) in the Case group and 189 subjects (113 men and 76 women) in the Control group were recruited. Information on the intakes of individual foods and dishes over the preceding 12 months was obtained using a semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire. The Case groups had significantly higher intakes of meats, eggs, sugar, tea, coffee and fruits, but lower intakes of soy products, rice and cereals compared to the controls. Coconut consumption as flesh or milk was not different between cases and controls. The cases had significantly higher intakes of protein and cholesterol, but lower intake of carbohydrate. Similar intakes of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids between the cases and controls indicated that the consumption of total fat or saturated fat, including that from coconut, was not a predictor for CHD in this food culture. However, the intakes of animal foods, total protein, dietary cholesterol and less plant derived carbohydrates were predictors of CHD.
15563765	The present study is aimed to examine the possibility of enhancement of natural killer (NK) cell activity in aged C57BL/6 and C3H mice using MGN-3, a modified arabinoxylan from rice bran. Intraperitoneal injection of MGN-3 (10 mg kg(-1) per day) caused a remarkable increase in the peritoneal NK activity as early as 2 days (35.2 lytic units), and the level remained elevated through day 14. The control aged mice had a level of 5.8 lytic units. Enhancement in NK activity was associated with an increase in both the binding capacity of NK cells to tumour targets and in the granular content as measured by BLT-esterase activity. Treatment did not alter the percentage of peritoneal NK cells. Data showed that peritoneal macrophages inhibit NK activity. In conclusion, MGN-3 enhances murine NK activity of aged mice and may be useful for enhancing NK function in aged humans.
15563968	Oxidative stress is now considered to be a key factor in the development of diabetes and its complications. In this study, we examined the anti-oxidative effects of a crude lipophilic rice bran extract, Ricetrienol, which contains alpha-tocopherol, tocotrienol and phytosterol, in obese diabetic KKAy mice. We used KKAy mice fed a normal diet (DM group) or a diet including 0.1% Ricetrienol (RT group), and non-diabetic C57BL mice (C group). After 6 weeks, body weight, HbA1c, plasma glucose, lipids, peroxylipid (malonedialdehyde, MDA), alpha-tocopherol and glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPx) mRNA expression in the kidney were measured. At 1 week and at the end of the experimental period, urine 8-isoprostane and 8-hydroxy deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) were also measured. Ricetrienol administration did not affect hyperglycemia, body weight or hyperlipidemia. Plasma MDA, urine 8-isoprostane and 8-OHdG in the DM group were significantly increased compared with the C group and the elevation of plasma MDA was significantly suppressed by 0.1% Ricetrienol. GPx mRNA expression was significantly increased in the RT group when compared with the C group. Plasma alpha-tocopherol in the RT group was significantly higher than that in the DM group. These findings suggest that Ricetrienol exerts a protective effect against oxidative damage in diabetes mellitus.
15564120	Cytoplasmic male sterility can be thought of as the product of a genetic conflict between two genomes that have different modes of inheritance. Male sterilizing factors, generally encoded by chimeric mitochondrial genes, can be down-regulated by specific nuclear restorer genes. The recent cloning of a restorer gene in rice and its comparison with restorer genes cloned in petunia and radish could be regarded as the beginning of a general molecular scenario in this peculiar arms race.
15564528	Class III plant peroxidases are believed to function in diverse physiological processes including disease resistance and wound response, but predicted low substrate specificities and the presence of 70 or more isoforms have made it difficult to define a specific physiological function(s) for each gene. To select pathogen-responsive POX genes, we analyzed the expression profiles of 22 rice POX genes after infection with rice blast fungus. The expression of 10 POX genes among the 22 genes was induced after fungal inoculation in both compatible and incompatible hosts. Seven of the 10 POX genes were expressed at higher levels in the incompatible host than in the compatible host 6-24 h after inoculation by which time no fungus-induced lesions have appeared. Organ-specific expression and stress-induced expression by wounding and treatment with probenazole, an agrichemical against blast fungus, jasmonic acid, salicylic acid and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate, a precursor of ethylene, indicated that rice POXs have individual characteristics and can be classified into several types. A comparison of the amino acid sequences of POXs showed that multiple isoforms with a high sequence similarity respond to stress in different or similar ways. Such redundant responses of POX genes may guarantee POX activities that are necessary for self-defense in plant tissues against environmental stresses including pathogen infection.
15564533	An Ltp2 promoter was isolated from barley as an aleurone-specific promoter, and its tissue specificity was maintained in transgenic rice. Expression of the Ltp2-gus gene in rice could be detected by X-gluc staining of the seeds. Previously, we reported the isolation of silenced plants in the R2 generation and the involvement of antisense gus transcripts in aleurone-specific Ltp2-gus gene silencing in transgenic rice, the L3.3 line. In the current study, we analyzed the L0.1 line, a sibling of the L3.3 line, and the partially revertant line from the L0.1 line accompanied by a transgene structural change. Strong silencing of the Ltp2-gus gene was detected over five generations in the L0.1 line. DNA and RNA analysis revealed that there were incomplete transgenes and that several aberrant RNAs that carried an antisense gus region were expressed in the L0.1 line. Determination of the transgene structure in the L0.1 line revealed that the partial antisense gus gene and the partial Ltp2 promoter region fused to the Ltp2 promoter were lacking in the revertants. RNA analysis demonstrated that the antisense gus and the promoter transcripts were produced and found in the poly(A)- fraction. Results of these analyses suggested that the observed aberrant transcripts, including antisense and promoter transcripts, were associated with Ltp2-gus silencing in the L0.1 line.
15564534	A transient expression assay system was employed to investigate the possible use of the maize Opaque 2 (O2) and prolamin box binding factor (PBF) proteins as transcriptional activators of rice and wheat storage protein gene promoters. When assayed in developing rice endosperm cells, either O2 or PBF alone could increase transcription from the promoter of the rice glutelin gene, Gt1. However, mutant forms of O2 and PBF that are defective in DNA binding could not. Co-transfection with both transcriptional activators resulted in an additive increase in transactivation of the Gt1 promoter. Co-bombardment of a Gt1::GUS construct with plasmids expressing the DNA binding domains of O2 and PBF in antisense orientation resulted in a decrease of GUS expression below background levels. Similar stimulatory and additive effects of O2 and PBF could be observed on the promoters from other storage protein genes including rice globulin (Glb), prolamins (RP6 and PG5a) and a wheat glutenin (Bx7). However, responsiveness of the promoters from non-storage protein genes like rice actin and CaMV 35S to O2 and PBF was insignificant. Our results indicate that the maize O2 and PBF proteins can act singly or additively as effective stimulators of heterologous storage protein promoters in developing rice endosperm cells. These data support the use of well-characterized transcription factors from maize as an effective means of increasing the expression level of recombinant proteins in developing rice seeds.
15564681	We compared the immunomodulating activities in mice of extracts from Phellinus linteus grown on germinated brown rice (PB), Phellinus linteus (PL) alone, and germinated brown rice (BR) alone. The PL, BR and PB-treated mice were administered with the respective extract (2 mg/head/day) by oral gavage for 4 weeks. All extracts markedly decreased the IgE production and allergic responses in serum and splenocytes. PL and PB increased the proportion of CD4(+) but not CD8(+) T cells in splenocytes. Cytokine production was significantly augmented in all treated mice; the concentration of IFN-gamma was greater in the PL, BR and PB mice than in the control group. The concentration of IL-10 was lower in the BR group than in the other groups. These results may be related to the suppression of IgE production. We conclude that PB modulated the immune responses of IgE production and Th1/Th2 cytokine secretion in murine splenocytes.
15565080	The objective of this study is to examine the glycemic response to common Chinese foods in patients with type 2 diabetes. Twenty-four Chinese adults with type 2 diabetes participated. Subjects were allocated to eat a pair of test meals in random order. Test meals included plain porridge with lean pork (meal 1A), plain porridge and Shrimp Shao Mai (Doll Brand, Winner Food Products Limited, Hong Kong) (meal 1B), boiled rice with boiled egg white (meal 2A), fried rice with whole egg (meal 2B), plain noodles in clear soup (meal 3A), and Pickled Vegetable and Pork-flavored Instant Bowl Noodles (Doll Brand, Winner Food Products Limited) (meal 3B). Nutritional content of the meals was calculated from the nutritional label on the food package and the food composition table. Plasma glucose was checked before the meal and in 30-minute intervals for up to 4 hours after the meal. Significant differences in the area under the curve of glucose up to 2 hours after the meal were detected between meal 1A and 2A (P =.044), 1A and 3A (P =.001), and 3A and 3B (P =.017). The results suggest that fat alone does not alter the glycemic response to rice or porridge. Porridge produces a higher glycemic response than rice and noodles despite similar carbohydrate contents, and different noodles lead to differences in glycemic excursion, suggesting that the glycemic index of common Chinese foods is affected by cooking methods and food processing.
15566782	While group A rotavirus is widely accepted as an important etiology of acute gastroenteritis in children, this agent rarely causes severe diarrhea in adults and, thus, is not considered by physicians to be an etiological agent for such diseases. None of the reports describing such rare cases in adults has examined the causative strains genetically in detail. We determined the G type, the gene 4 genotype, the electropherotype, and the genomic RNA constellation (genogroup) of a group A rotavirus strain isolated from an adult with severe diarrhea. This patient, the first documented case of rotavirus diarrhea in adult in Japan, suffered from severe dehydrating diarrhea with 'rice-water' appearance, vomiting and little abdominal pain, presenting a clinical picture typical of cholera. Rotavirus antigen and genomic RNA were detected in the stool but other enteric pathogens including Vibrio cholerae responsible for the disease were not isolated. Molecular characterization revealed that the patient was infected with a strain of the DS-1 genogroup with G2 and gene 4 genotype 4 which was circulating among children during the same period. The result that the same group A rotavirus strain was isolated from children and an adult underlines the necessity of examining rotavirus in adults with acute diarrhea.
15567824
15570239
1557024	Using a one-step strategy to disrupt CUT1, a gene for cutinase, cut1- mutants were generated in two strains of Magnaporthe grisea. One strain, pathogenic on weeping lovegrass and barley and containing the arg3-12 mutation, was transformed with a disruption vector in which the Aspergillus nidulans ArgB+ gene was inserted into CUT1. Prototrophic transformants were screened by Southern hybridization, and 3 of 53 tested contained a disrupted CUT1 gene (cut1::ArgB+). A second strain, pathogenic on rice, was transformed with a disruption vector in which a gene for hyg B resistance was inserted into CUT1. Two of the 57 transformants screened by Southern hybridization contained a disrupted CUT1 gene (cut1::Hyg). CUT1 mRNA was not detectable in transformants that contained a disrupted gene. Transformants with a disrupted CUT1 gene failed to produce a cutin-inducible esterase that is normally detected by activity staining on non-denaturing polyacrylamide gels. Enzyme activity, measured either with tritiated cutin or with p-nitrophenyl butyrate as a substrate, was reduced but not eliminated in strains with a disrupted CUT1 gene. The infection efficiency of the cut1- disruption transformants was equal to that of the parent strains on all three host plants. Lesions produced by these mutants had an appearance and a sporulation rate similar to those produced by the parent strains. We conclude that the M. grisea CUT1 gene is not required for pathogenicity.
15570396	Phytochrome (phy) A in its two native isoforms (phyA' and phyA") and the active (Pchlide(655)) and inactive (Pchlide(633)) protochlorophyllides were investigated by low-temperature fluorescence spectroscopy in the tips of rice (Oryza sativa L. Japonica cv Nihonmasari) coleoptiles from wild type (WT) and the jasmonate-deficient mutant hebiba. The seedlings were either grown in the dark or under pulsed (FRp) or continuous (FRc) far-red light (lambda(a) >/= 720 nm) of equal fluences. In the dark, the mutant had a long mesocotyl and a short coleoptile, whereas the situation was reversed under FR: short mesocotyl and long coleoptile, suggesting that the effect is mediated by phyA. Under these conditions the WT displayed a short coleoptile and emergence of the first leaf. In the dark, the spectroscopic and photochemical properties of phyA, its content and the proportion of its two pools, phyA' and phyA", were virtually identical between WT and hebiba. However, the total content of protochlorophyllides was higher in the mutant. Upon illumination with FRc, [phyA] declined in the WT and the ratio between phyA' and phyA" shifted towards phyA". In hebiba, the light-induced decline of [phyA] was less pronounced and the ratio between phyA' and phyA" did not shift. Moreover, in the WT, FRp stimulated the biosynthesis of Pchlide(655), whereas FRc was inhibiting. In contrast, in the mutant, both FRp and FRc stimulated the synthesis of Pchlide(655). This means that FRc caused the opposite effect in hebiba. This difference correlates with a slower photodestruction of primarily the light-labile phyA' pool in hebiba.
15571478	Treatment of strongyloidiasis has been traditionally based on thiabendazole, despite its frequent gastrointestinal side effects and failure to achieve eradication of the parasite from faeces in approximately 30% of cases. Ivermectin has been shown to be more effective for treating chronic uncomplicated strongyloidiasis. The efficacy and tolerability of these drugs in a series of patients treated from 1999 to 2002 at the Oliva Health Centre, Valencia, Spain, are reported. A total of 88 patients diagnosed of strongyloidiasis were treated using the following regimens: thiabendazole 25 mg/kg/12 h for 3 consecutive days in 31 patients; ivermectin 200 mug/kg as a single dose in 22 patients; and ivermectin 200 mug/kg for 2 consecutive days in 35 patients. The efficacy and side effects were recorded. A total of 65 patients were male, and 23 female. The mean age was 64 +/- 12 years. Of the patients, 44 had worked barefoot in rice fields. Among the 31 patients treated with thiabendazole, 25 (78%) met the criteria for cure (the absence of parasite in faeces after examination of three samples collected on alternate days), and 5 (16%) experienced side effects (asthenia, epigastralgia and disorientation). Of the 22 patients treated with ivermectin on a single day, 17 (77%) met the criteria for cure, and 2 (9%) reported side effects (dizziness, dyspepsia). Among the 35 patients treated with ivermectin on 2 consecutive days, 100% met the criteria for cure, and 0% experienced side effects. In chronic uncomplicated strongyloidiasis, a treatment regimen consisting of ivermectin 200 mug/kg for 2 consecutive days provided the best results with regard to efficacy and tolerability. When the eosinophilia continued after treatment, we observed a high percentage of not-cure rate (7 of 9 patients, 77%).
15571746	Mitigation of methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions from soil is important to reduce the global warming. Efficacy of five nitrification inhibitors, i.e. neem (Azadirachta melia) cake, thiosulphate, coated calcium carbide, neem oil coated urea and dicyandiamide (DCD) and one urease inhibitor, hydroquinone, in mitigating N2O and CH4 emissions from fertilized soil was tested in rice-wheat system in the Indo-Gangetic plains. The closed chamber technique was used for the collection of gas samples, which were analyzed using gas chromatography. Reduction in N2O emission on the application of nitrification/urease inhibitors along with urea ranged from 5% with hydroquinone to 31% with thiosulphate in rice and 7% with hydroquinone to 29% with DCD in wheat crop. The inhibitors also influenced the emission of CH4. While application of neem coated urea, coated calcium carbide, neem oil and DCD reduced the emission of CH4; hydroquinone and thiosulphate increased the emission when compared to urea alone. However, the global warming potential was lower with the inhibitors (except hydroquinone) as compared to urea alone, suggesting that these substances could be used for mitigating greenhouse gas emission from the rice-wheat systems.
15571750	Outdoor pot experiments with various paddy soils representing five soil types were conducted at Nanjing Agricultural University during the 2000 and 2001 rice-growing seasons. Eighteen soils and ten out of the eighteen soils were involved in the 2000 and the 2001 experiment, respectively. Two treatments were designed as mineral fertilization (MF) and mineral fertilizer + wheat straw incorporation (MF + WS) for the 2001 experiment. Seasonal average rate of CH4 emission from different soils ranged from 1.96 to 11.06 mg m(-2) h(-1) in the 2000 experiment, and from 0.89 to 5.92 mg m(-2) h(-1) for the MF treatment in the 2001 experiment, respectively. Incorporation of wheat straw enhanced considerably CH4 emission with an average increment of 7.09 mg m(-2) h(-1). CH4 emissions from the two-year experiment were negatively correlated to soil available and total copper concentration. A further investigation showed that CH4 emission from the MF treatment was positively related to the dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in the soil (r = 0.904, p < 0.001), and that the DOC was negatively correlated to the concentrations of available copper (r = -0.844, p < 0.01) and total copper (r = -0.833, p < 0.01), respectively. Nevertheless, the incorporation of wheat straw did not enhance the soil DOC, and the relationship between CH4 emission and soil DOC was not statistically significant (r = 0.470, p < 0.20). It was concluded that higher concentration of copper in the soils resulted in lower soil DOC and thus reduced CH4 emission when there was no additional organic matter input. Incorporation of wheat straw did not affect soil DOC and available copper concentration but enhanced CH4 emission.
15573989	This paper studied the correlations between rice leaf area index (LAI), leaf chlorophyll content (CHL. C), hyperspectral data, normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), enhanced vegetation index (EVI), and red-edge position (REP). The results showed that LAI had a close correlation with visible and NIR bands, and CHL. C had the highest correlation with red band. A strong non-linear correlation was found between the LAI and REP of two rice varieties. For common rice, REP, EVI and NDVI were well related with LAI, but for hybrid rice, REP and EVI were more sensitive than NDVI to LAI. In 2003, REP, EVI and NDVI were well related with CHL. C.
15574001	The study on the development, survivorship and fecundity of Cicadulina bipunctella reared on corn, wheat, sorghum, rice, millet, barley and Leptochloa panacea showed that the insect could develop and reproduce on all test host plants except for Leptochloa panacea. The development duration of C. bipunctella at its immature stages reared on sorghum was the shortest (24.1 d), then on corn (24.2 d), and the longest on wheat (25.5 d). The survival rate (40.8%), longevity (12.2 d) and oviposition per female (12.3 eggs) of female adults reared on rice were lower than those reared on the other five host plants. Based on the life-table parameters, the most suitable host plants for the development and reproduction of C. bipunctella were millet and corn, followed by sorghum, barley, wheat and rice.
15574482	Seedling vigour is one of the major determinants for stable stand establishment in rice (Oryza sativa), especially in a direct seeding cropping system. The objectives of this study were to identify superior alleles with consistent effects on seedling vigour across different temperature conditions and to investigate genotype x environmental temperature interactions for seedling vigour QTL. A set of 282 F13 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a rice cross were assessed for four seedling vigour traits at three temperatures (25 degrees C, 20 degrees C and 15 degrees C). Using a linkage map with 198 marker loci, the main-effect QTL for the traits were mapped by composite interval mapping. A total of 34 QTL for the four seedling vigour traits were identified. Of these QTL, the majority (82%) were clustered within five genomic regions, designated as QTL qSV-3-1, qSV-3-2, qSV-5, qSV-8-1 and qSV-8-2. All of these five QTL had small individual effects on the traits, explaining 3.1-15.8 % of the phenotypic variation with a mean of 7.3 %. QTL qSV-3-1, qSV-3-2 and qSV-8-1 showed almost consistent effects on the traits across all three temperatures while qSV-5 and qSV-8-2 had effects mainly at the 'normal' temperatures of 20 degrees C and 25 degrees C. Among the five QTL identified, all and four showed additive effects on shoot length and germination rate, respectively. The contributions of these five QTL to shoot length and germination rate were also much larger than those to the other two traits. A few of genomic regions (or QTL) were identified as showing effects on seedling vigour. For these QTL, significant genotype x environmental temperature interactions were found and these interactions appeared to be QTL-specific. Among the four seedling vigour traits measured, shoot length and germination rate could be used as relatively good indicators to evaluate the level of seedling vigour in rice.
15574840	Rice plants in paddy fields prefer to utilize ammonium as a major nitrogen source. Glutamine synthetase (GS) serves for assimilation of ammonium in rice root, and ameliorates the toxic effect of ammonium excess. Among the three isoenzymes of the cytosolic GS1 gene family in rice, OsGLN1;1 and OsGLN1;2 were abundantly expressed in roots. Analysis of the purified enzymes showed that OsGLN1;1 and OsGLN1;2 can be classified into high-affinity subtypes with relatively high V(max) values, as compared with the major high-affinity isoenzyme, GLN1;1, in Arabidopsis. Low-affinity forms of GS1 comparable to those in Arabidopsis (GLN1;2 and GLN1;3) were absent in rice roots. The OsGLN1;1 and OsGLN1;2 transcripts showed reciprocal responses to ammonium supply in the surface cell layers of roots. OsGLN1;1 accumulated in dermatogen, epidermis and exodermis under nitrogen-limited condition. By contrast, OsGLN1;2 was abundantly expressed in the same cell layers under nitrogen-sufficient conditions, replenishing the loss of OsGLN1;1 following ammonium treatment. Within the central cylinder of elongating zone, OsGLN1;1 and OsGLN1;2 were both induced by ammonium, which was distinguishable from the response observed in the surface cell layers. The high-capacity Gln synthetic activities of OsGLN1;1 and OsGLN1;2 facilitate active ammonium assimilation in specific cell types in rice roots.
15575867	Management of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is aimed at reducing oesophageal acid exposure to achieve symptom relief. Therapy has traditionally included advice to the patient on diet and lifestyle management. Recent evidence suggests, however, that some specific dietary modifications may be applicable to the Japanese patient. For example, ingestion of Japanese sweet cakes or rice cakes should be avoided by the Japanese patient with GERD as these foods may provoke heartburn. Pharmacological therapy is, however, usually also required for effective symptom relief. While antacids and histamine H(2)-receptor antagonists have a role in treating mild GERD, effective relief of many cases of oesophagitis is usually only achieved by using proton-pump inhibitors such as lansoprazole, omeprazole and rabeprazole. In the Japanese population, variation in the genetic polymorphism of CYP2C19 (a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme) leads to considerable inter-individual unpredictability in the activity of lansoprazole and omeprazole due to inter-individual differences in the extent to which these agents are metabolized. Consequently, rabeprazole, which does not undergo hepatic biotransformation by CYP2C19, offers significant advantages over the other PPIs as a result of its more predictable activity. This, coupled with its more rapid onset of action, leads to a more efficient and less variable acid-suppressing effect.
15578229	A simple, rapid and accurate mid-infrared (MIR) spectroscopic method for simultaneously determining the product (ethanol) content and the nutrient (sugar) content in plant-cell culture media was developed using a Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectrometer equipped with an attenuated total reflectance (ATR) accessory. We assessed the potential of this method by comparing it to a high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method, and using the developed method to measure the ethanol and sugar contents simultaneously in liquid culture media with rice and tabacum cell suspensions, respectively. The experimental results suggest that the sugar consumption and ethanol production behaviors of the plant cell suspensions can be non-destructively and simultaneously monitored using the developed method. Furthermore, the spectroscopic method provided in this study could be developed into a technique that could be used to analyze the overall kinetics of the metabolism of the plant cell suspensions.
15579316	Solar ultraviolet radiation (UV-A and UV-B) is a major factor in failure of programs using the insect pathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae as a biological control agent. Studies were conducted to determine if growth conditions, viz. artificial (agar media or rice grain) or natural (infected insects) substrates for conidial production affect two traits that directly influence performance of conidia after field application: tolerance to UV-B radiation and conidial germination speed. Conidia of two isolates (ARSEF 23 and ARSEF 2575) of M. anisopliae var. anisopliae produced on potato dextrose agar plus yeast extract (PDAY) or on fungus-killed larvae of two insect species, Galleria mellonella and Zophobas morio, were inactivated by exposure to UV-B radiation. Conidia of both isolates when produced on insect cadavers were significantly more sensitive to UV-B radiation than conidia produced on PDAY. Also, conidia from insect cadavers germinated slower than those from PDAY cultures. A comparison of conidia from artificial substrates showed that conidia produced on Czapek's and Emerson's YpSs agar media or rice grains had higher tolerance to UV-B radiation and germinated faster than conidia raised on PDA and PDAY. Accordingly, the growth substrate and nutritional environment in which conidia are produced influences M. anisopliae conidial UV-B tolerance and speed of germination; and manipulation of these variables could be used to obtain conidia with increased tolerance to UV-B radiation and shorter germination times.
15583412	Transposon tagging was used to isolate genes in higher plant. In this study, a delayed heading mutant caused by T-DNA insertion in rice was identified. Genetic analysis of the mutant showed that the three types of phenotype, normal heading, delayed heading and overly delayed heading in the segregating populations derived from the T-DNA heterozygotes fit the ratio of 1:2:1. Test for Basta resistance showed the delayed heading plants were all resistant while the normal heading plants were susceptible, and the ratio of resistant and susceptible plants was 3:1, which indicated that the delayed heading mutant was co-segregated with Basta resistance. The delayed heading mutant caused by T-DNA insertion was confirmed by T-DNA detection using PCR method. This delayed heading mutant will be used for isolation of the tagged gene in rice.
15583413	It has been demonstrated in our previous work that rice OsBP-73 gene contains two exons interrupted by a 2471 bp intron. Here it was reported that the 5' flanking region of the ATG translation start codon in the first exon of OsBP-73 gene (from -1818 to +215) can not direct GUS gene expression in resistant rice calli or transgenic rice. When the complete OsBP-73 intron and its flanking region (from -1818 to +2844) are constructed in frame with GUS coding region, GUS activity can be detected in the resistant rice calli and transgenic rice. Experimental data also show that the complete OsBP-73 intron itself has no promoter activity. These results suggest that the OsBP-73 intron sequence is involved in directing the GUS gene expression. Another experiment demonstrates that the complete intron sequence can enhance the activity of OsEBP-89 gene promoter.
15583414	OsEBP-89 gene was an EREBP (ethylene responsive elements binding protein) transcription factor from rice (Oryza sativa). Northern blot analysis revealed that the expression of OsEBP-89 gene can be induced by ACC, 2,4-D, ABA, BR, JA, GA, 6-BA and salt. We found an ethylene responsive element-like ERE (ethylene responsive element), named IVC box, in the promoter region (-552 to -510) of OsEBP-89 gene. EMSA results showed the IVC box could specifically bind with nuclear proteins extracted from immature rice seeds. When the rice suspension cell harboring IVC/35S mini-promoter (-46)/GUS chimeric construct (pIVC/GUS) was treated by ACC, GUS activity could be induced. However, two plasmids with OsEBP-89 promoter/GUS (pPSG) and IVC box-deleted OsEBP-89 promoter/GUS (pSphSG) were transformed to rice, when both transgenic suspension cell treated with ACC the GUS expression was also inducible. This result indicated that there are more than one ethylene-responsive elements located in the promoter region of the OsEBP-89 gene.
15583417	Two rice (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica cv. Nipponbare) ribosome recycling factor genes--OsfrrA and OsfrrB had been identified and characterized in this study. The gene OsfrrA is located on chromosome 4 while OsfrrB on chromosome 7. No other homologue is found in rice organelle genomes. Both genes are unique in rice genome and constitutively expressed. The N-terminal character of their encoded protein products suggests that the proteins are transferred to mitochondrion and chloroplast respectively and carry out their functions. The sequence conservation and the constitutive expression profile of the two genes strongly imply their indispensable role in plant growth. In addition, these sequences share phylogenetic homology to some extent with other prokaryotic and eukaryotic RRFs, providing further evidence for the endosymbiotic theory, and implying the potential value of RRFs in molecular evolution research.
15583938	Tobacco is a valuable model system for investigating the origin of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in amphidiploid plants and studying the genetic interaction between mitochondria and chloroplasts in the various functions of the plant cell. As a first step, we have determined the complete mtDNA sequence of Nicotiana tabacum. The mtDNA of N. tabacum can be assumed to be a master circle (MC) of 430,597 bp. Sequence comparison of a large number of clones revealed that there are four classes of boundaries derived from homologous recombination, which leads to a multipartite organization with two MCs and six subgenomic circles. The mtDNA of N. tabacum contains 36 protein-coding genes, three ribosomal RNA genes and 21 tRNA genes. Among the first class, we identified the genes rps1 and psirps14, which had previously been thought to be absent in tobacco mtDNA on the basis of Southern analysis. Tobacco mtDNA was compared with those of Arabidopsis thaliana, Beta vulgaris, Oryza sativa and Brassica napus. Since repeated sequences show no homology to each other among the five angiosperms, it can be supposed that these were independently acquired by each species during the evolution of angiosperms. The gene order and the sequences of intergenic spacers in mtDNA also differ widely among the five angiosperms, indicating multiple reorganizations of genome structure during the evolution of higher plants. Among the conserved genes, the same potential conserved nonanucleotide-motif-type promoter could only be postulated for rrn18-rrn5 in four of the dicotyledonous plants, suggesting that a coding sequence does not necessarily move with the promoter upon reorganization of the mitochondrial genome.
15584473	Cereals in diets have varied along evolution trends in food patterns. Cereals are starchy foods and are the main source of polysacharides in the diet. In Mediterranean countries, cereals have been used in different ways, though they are mainly used as refined cereals. Wheat bread is one of the most commonly used. In the average Spanish diet, considerable changes have taken place since 1961 leading to a significant decrease in percent energy from carbohydrate. At the same time, percent energy from fat has increased as web as protein intake. These changes in the nutritional pattern reflect a continuous decrease in consumption of grains and cereals, pulses and potatoes. In the last decades, consumption of pasta however has increased as web as consumption of processed bakery products and biscuits. Scientific and epidemiological evidence show that cereals should be the main source of energy in the diet, in line with the so-called Mediterranean Diet. Polysacharides should provide 50-55% energy. In order to reach that goal, cereal, legumes and potatoes should be included in the daily diet as 4-6 portions. Whole grain cereales should be preferred or food preparations combining pasta, potatoes or rice with vegetables in order to reduce the glycemic index. Processed bakery products and biscuits should be consumed in moderation.
15584956	Salicylic acid (SA) is a key endogenous signal that mediates defense gene expression and disease resistance in many dicotyledonous species. In contrast to tobacco and Arabidopsis, which contain low basal levels of SA, rice has two orders of magnitude higher levels of SA and appears to be insensitive to exogenous SA treatment. To determine the role of SA in rice plants, we have generated SA-deficient transgenic rice by expressing the bacterial salicylate hydroxylase that degrades SA. Depletion of high levels of endogenous SA in transgenic rice does not measurably affect defense gene expression, but reduces the plant's capacity to detoxify reactive oxygen intermediates (ROI). SA-deficient transgenic rice contains elevated levels of superoxide and H2O2, and exhibits spontaneous lesion formation in an age- and light-dependent manner. Exogenous application of SA analog benzothiadiazole complements SA deficiency and suppresses ROI levels and lesion formation. Although an increase of conjugated catechol was detected in SA-deficient rice, catechol does not appear to significantly affect ROI levels based on the endogenous catechol data and exogenous catechol treatment. When infected with the blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea), SA-deficient rice exhibits increased susceptibility to oxidative bursts elicited by avirulent isolates. Furthermore, SA-deficient rice is hyperresponsive to oxidative damage caused by paraquat treatment. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that SA plays an important role to modulate redox balance and protect rice plants from oxidative stress.
15587273	We investigated the possibility of producing the therapeutic recombinant cytokine, Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), in transgenic rice cell (Oryza sativa, cultivar TNG67) suspension cultures. We tested expression of two vector constructs, each harboring an alphaAmy3 leader peptide and a C-terminus His 6 tag fused to a human IFN-gamma cDNA, one driven by a sucrose-starvation inducible promoter (rice alphaAmy3 promoter) and the other by a constitutive maize ubiquitin promoter, in rice cell suspensions, introduced via Agrobacterium tumefaciens. There was a significant difference in the amounts of recombinant IFN-gamma protein produced by the Ups and Amy cell lines, as cytosolic and secretory proteins respectively. Immunological analysis of IFN-gamma recombinant protein conferred a dose-dependent anti-dengue virus activity in human A549 cells, similar to the commercial product. We discuss the attractive attributes of using rice cell suspension system for the expression of therapeutic recombinant IFN-gamma.
15588776	The effects of the manure compost/coconut peels on the ammonia removal efficiency were examined from dairy manure composting mixed with crop residues. The high rapid composting and manure compost biofiltration experiments consisted of three biofilter vessels with one composter. Dairy manure amended with rice hulls and sawdust was composted in 605 L pilot-scale composter using continuous aeration for 19 days. Three pilot-scale manure compost biofilter amended with media bed 500 mm in depth and 300 mm in diameter were built to clean ammonia emission from composter, respectively. The manure compost biofilter media in the three experimental vessels was using a 50:50 by weight mixture of manure compost and coconut peels (MC/CP). The ammonia concentrations at the inlet and outlet biofilter media were measured by boric acid traps as described by Hong et al. [Hong, J.H., Keener, H.M., Elwell, D.L., 1998. Preliminary study of the effect of continuous and intermittent aeration on composting hog manure amended with sawdust. Compost Science and Utilization 6 (3), 74-88]. Results indicated that the mixture of MC/CP performed well as a biofilter media and the ammonia removal efficiency was 100% for the filter depth of 500 mm.
15590002	In vertebrates, the biotransformation processes of xenobiotics are performed mainly by the liver which involves both hepatocytes and Kupffer-melanomacrophagic cells through enzymatic and nonenzymatic mechanisms. In this study, we investigated the liver of Rana esculenta adult frogs collected at two sample rice fields, one heavily polluted and one relatively unpolluted. Water pollution was determined by chemical analysis on tadpoles. The specific activities of some enzymes (glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH), acid and alkaline phosphatases (AcPase and AlkPase), succinic dehydrogenase (SDH), and catalase) were studied in the liver of adult frogs to identify the possible changes induced by contamination in the metabolic processes which depend on the function of the liver. The production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were also evaluated through histochemical techniques. In the polluted samples, hepatocytes showed variations in the activity of G6PDH, AlkPase, and SDH and a moderate to intense ROS expression. Prominent changes were observed in Kupffer cells (KCs) and melanomacrophages (MMPs), both showing intense reactivity for AcPase and catalase and variations in melanin content and distribution. Results thus indicate a general adaptive response of liver parenchyma to environmental pollution. The possible role of both KCs and MMPs as scavengers of foreign substances is discussed.
15590771	Chemical analyses of ancient organics absorbed into pottery jars from the early Neolithic village of Jiahu in Henan province in China have revealed that a mixed fermented beverage of rice, honey, and fruit (hawthorn fruit and/or grape) was being produced as early as the seventh millennium before Christ (B.C.). This prehistoric drink paved the way for unique cereal beverages of the proto-historic second millennium B.C., remarkably preserved as liquids inside sealed bronze vessels of the Shang and Western Zhou Dynasties. These findings provide direct evidence for fermented beverages in ancient Chinese culture, which were of considerable social, religious, and medical significance, and help elucidate their earliest descriptions in the Shang Dynasty oracle inscriptions.
15593075	The herbicide thiobencarb is suspected of causing delayed phytotoxicity syndrome (DPS) in rice plants. While the ultimate agent appears to be its dechlorinated product (deschlorothiobencarb), the influence of organic carbon on the formation of deschlorothiobencarb in California rice field soils has not been investigated. Thus, two different soils were compared for their ability to reductively dechlorinate thiobencarb with carbon augmentation: one from the eastern Sacramento Valley, which has historically displayed DPS, and one from the western Sacramento Valley, which has not. Rice straw was homogenized into samples of each soil to produce 0, 0.33 or 2% organic carbon augmentation. During 90-days of anoxic incubation, substantial deschlorothiobencarb production was measured in both soil types. However, only the thiobencarb degradation rate in the eastern valley soil was positively correlated with carbon content. Thus, other characteristics of DPS-resistant soils may limit deschlorothiobencarb formation.
15593292	Molecular genetic analysis and insect bioassay of transgenic indica rice 'Zhuxian B' plants carrying snowdrop lectin gene (gna) and soybean trypsin inhibitor gene (sbti) were investigated in detail. PCR, 'dot' blot and PCR-Southern blot analysis showed that both transgenes had been incorporated into the rice genome and transmitted up to R3 progeny in most lines tested. Some transgenic lines exhibited Mendelian segregation, but the other showed either 1:1 (positive: negative for the transgenes) or other aberrant segregation patterns. The segregation patterns of gna gene crossed between R2 and R3 progeny. In half of transgenic R3 lines, gna and sbti transgenes co-segregated. Two independent homozygous lines expressing double transgenes were identified in R3 progeny. Southern blot analysis demonstrated that the copy numbers of integrated gna and sbti transgenes varied from one to ten in different lines. Insect bioassay data showed that most transgenic plants had better resistance to both Nilaparvata lugens (Stahl) and Cnaphalocrocis medinalis (Guenee) than wild-type plants. The insect resistance of transgenic lines increased with the increase in transgene positive ratio in most of the transgenic lines. In all, we obtained nine lines of R3 transgenic plants, including one pure line, which had better resistance to both N lugens and C medinalis than wild-type plants.
15596462	Plant nuclear genomes vary tremendously in DNA content, mostly due to differences in ancestral ploidy and variation in the degree of transposon amplification. These processes can increase genome size, but little is known about mechanisms of genome shrinkage and the degree to which these can attenuate or reverse genome expansion. This research focuses on characterizing DNA removal from the rice and Arabidopsis genomes, and discusses whether loss of DNA has effectively competed with amplification in these species. Retrotransposons were analyzed for sequence variation within several element families in rice and Arabidopsis. Nucleotide sequence changes in the two termini of individual retrotransposons were used to date their time of insertion. An accumulation of small deletions was found in both species, caused by unequal homologous recombination and illegitimate recombination. The relative contribution of unequal homologous recombination compared to illegitimate recombination was higher in rice than in Arabidopsis. However, retrotransposons are rapidly removed in both species, as evidenced by the similar apparent ages of intact elements (most less than 3 million years old) in these two plants and all other investigated plant species. Differences in the activity of mechanisms for retrotransposon regulation or deletion generation between species could explain current genome size variation without any requirement for natural selection to act on this trait, although the results do not preclude selection as a contributing factor. The simplest model suggests that significant genome size variation is generated by lineage-specific differences in the molecular mechanisms of DNA amplification and removal, creating major variation in nuclear DNA content that can then serve as the substrate for fitness-based selection.
15597107	To investigate the incidence of oesophageal cancer (EC) in the Golestan province of North-East Iran, we invited 1349 rural and urban inhabitants of Golestan province aged 35-80 to undergo extensive lifestyle interviews and to provide biological samples. The interview was repeated on a subset of 130 participants to assess reliability of questionnaire and medical information. Temperature at which tea was consumed was measured on two occasions by 110 subjects. Samples of rice, wheat and sorghum were tested for fumonisin contamination. An active follow-up was carried out after 6 and 12 months. A total of 1057 subjects (610 women and 447 men) participated in this feasibility study (78.4% participation rate). Cigarette smoking, opium and alcohol use were reported by 163 (13.8%), 93 (8.8%) and 39 (3.7%) subjects, respectively. Tobacco smoking was correlated with urinary cotinine (kappa = 0.74). Most questionnaire data had kappa > 0.7 in repeat measurements; tea temperature measurement was reliable (kappa = 0.71). No fumonisins were detected in the samples analysed. During the follow-up six subjects were lost (0.6%), two subjects developed EC (one dead, one alive); in all, 13 subjects died (with cause of death known for 11, 84.6%). Conducting a cohort study in Golestan is feasible with reliable information obtained for suspected risk factors; participants can be followed up for EC incidence and mortality.
15597740	The rice xa5 gene for disease resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae has been positionally cloned and encodes the gamma subunit of transcription factor IIA (TFIIAgamma). TFIIAgamma is a general eukaryotic transcription factor with no previously known role in disease resistance. xa5 is unusual in that it is recessive and does not conform to one of the typical resistance gene structural classes. Sequencing of TFIIAgamma in resistant and susceptible isolines revealed two nucleotide substitutions resulting in an amino acid change between resistant and susceptible cultivars. This association was conserved across 27 resistant and nine susceptible rice lines in the Aus-Boro group.
15598797	We isolated a mutant, named coleoptile phototropism1 (cpt1), from gamma-ray-mutagenized japonica-type rice (Oryza sativa). This mutant showed no coleoptile phototropism and severely reduced root phototropism after continuous stimulation. A map-based cloning strategy and transgenic complementation test were applied to demonstrate that a NPH3-like gene deleted in the mutant corresponds to CPT1. Phylogenetic analysis of putative CPT1 homologs of rice and related proteins indicated that CPT1 has an orthologous relationship with Arabidopsis thaliana NPH3. These results, along with those for Arabidopsis, demonstrate that NPH3/CPT1 is a key signal transduction component of higher plant phototropism. In an extended study with the cpt1 mutant, it was found that phototropic differential growth is accompanied by a CPT1-independent inhibition of net growth. Kinetic investigation further indicated that a small phototropism occurs in cpt1 coleoptiles. This response, induced only transiently, was thought to be caused by the CPT1-independent growth inhibition. The 3H-indole-3-acetic acid applied to the coleoptile tip was asymmetrically distributed between the two sides of phototropically responding coleoptiles. However, no asymmetry was induced in cpt1 coleoptiles, indicating that lateral translocation of auxin occurs downstream of CPT1. It is concluded that the CPT1-dependent major phototropism of coleoptiles is achieved by lateral auxin translocation and subsequent growth redistribution.
15599027	Suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) was used to isolate rice genes down-regulated by BPH infestation. The SSH cDNA library constructed with the tester cDNA from rice seedlings, and driver cDNA from rice seedlings fed by BPH consists of 200 clones. Fifty clones were randomly picked and screened by reverse Northern dot blot and Northern blot. As a result, two cDNA fragments have been isolated: one is Lhca, which encodes rice photosystem I antenna protein; the other is a novel rice gene, and designated as BpHd002 (Brown planthopper depressed). The cDNA library for rice seedlings was screened using BpHd002 as probe, and a full-length cDNA (BpHd002A) has been isolated. The cDNA is 1 285 bp in length; the putative open reading frame is 519 bp long, which encodes a protein with two CBS domains, homologous with inosine-5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase.
15599031	Ten indica rice and eight japonica rice mutants with lesion resembling disease (lrd27-44) were obtained by gamma-ray mutagenesis of the whole genomes. These mutants exhibited diverse lesion mimic phenotypes under different growth environments, could be accordingly classified two types, sensitive and insensitive to environments. Basing on difference in development of lesion mimics, they can be divided into three categories: whole life lesion mimics (WLLM), vegetative initiation lesion mimics (VILM), and reproductive initiation lesion mimics (RILM). Lesion mimics resulted from the programmed cell death and were triggered by light, but not by wounding. The genetic analysis showed that four mutants, lrd32, lrd39, lrd40 and lrd42, were controlled by one or two recessive loci. Among the 18 lrd mutants, lrd37 and lrd40 conferred non-race-specific resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Gene mapping and cloning of Lrd32 and Lrd40 are under way.
15599039	With a series of four near-isogenic lines (NIL) of rice, studies were carried out in the interaction between rice and a specific glycoprotein elicitor from Magnaporthe grisea. After treatment with the elicitor, O(-.)(2) generation rate increased more remarkably on the leaves of incompatible interaction of rice, than compatible interaction of rice. Change in SOD activity and CAT activity was similar in leaves of rice with different resistance after inoculation with the elicitor. On the contrary, POD activity was positive relative to rice resistance. And changes in LOX activity were increased more remarkably and rapidly on the leaves of incompatibly interacting rice. These changes led to lipid peroxidation in the leaves of incompatibly interacting rice. Relative conductance rate and MDA content were also increased more remarkably and rapidly in leaves of incompatibly interacting rice. Our results also showed that elicitor could induce hypersensitive reaction (HR reaction) in leaves of completely or highly incompatible interacting rice, but not in the two NIL rice varieties (one with moderately incompatible interactions and another with compatible ones). The results suggest that lipid peroxidation and HR reaction in rice leaves induced by the elicitor may play an important role in the resistance of rice seedlings.
15599046	Heat shock applied to germinated rice seeds increased the chilling tolerance of seedlings. Comparison with the control, brief heat shock applied before chilling at 4 degrees C for 2 days and recovery at 25 degrees C for another 2 days decreased the permeability of cellular membranes and increased the content of proline in rice seedlings. Heat shock applied before chilling also increased the activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and peroxidase and the content of ascorbate in rice seedlings. In contrast, the lipoxygenase activity and the malondialdehyde content in the heat-shocked rice seedlings were lower than those in the control. Germinated rice embryos synthesized heat shock proteins of Mr 78, 70, 64, 46, 38, 24, 17 and 16 kD during heat shock. The results of Western blot suggested that the binding protein (Bip) of HSP70 play an important role in protecting the rice seedling against chilling damage.
15599054	Many vectors, especially artificial chromosome vectors, have been developed for genome-scale mapping and sequencing. As the first artificial chromosome, YAC has been extensively used in the genomic library construction and mapping. Shizuya et al. (1992) devised the bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) originated from F factor of E.coli, which is much easy to handle and isolated with large harboring capacity. Liu et al. (1999) designed the transformation-competent artificial chromosome (TAC) vector, derived from PAC vector. TAC could shuttle a large-scale DNA fragment between bacteria and Agrobaceria. Further, it could integrate a large targetted DNA fragment into plant genome, as being documented in Arabidopsis and rice genome research (Liu et al. 2000, 2002). The time-saving virtue of TAC should be significant in genomics research in Lotus japonicus, a model plant of legume. Using a nuclei-based method of Liu and Whittier, high molecular weight DNA was isolated from Lotus japonicus (Gifu ecotype). The DNA was digested partially with Hind III and size-fractionated in the 10- to 20-kb size range as described (Liu and Whittier 1994). The partially digested and size selected DNA fragments were ligated with Hind III-digested pYLTAC7 and then used for transformation of E. coli DH10B by electroporation. Transformants carrying inserts were selected on LB agar plates containing 25 mg/L kanamycin and 5% sucrose. The library, 6 haploid genome equivalents, was pooled in 12 96-well microtiter plates at about 150 transformants per well. The TAC library was then arrayed in nylon membranes and subjected to screening. The probe, a homolog fragment of CEN gene controlling the structure of inflorescence Antirrhinum, was used for screening. 0.5 muL solution from the positive pool was titered and the secondary screening was conducted in the same way. Finally, these positive clonies were confirmed by Southern blot. These data showed that this genomic library was reliable for further molecular research in Lotus japonicus.
15599508	Ascorbate peroxidase (APx) is a class I peroxidase that catalyzes the conversion of H(2)O(2) to H(2)O and O(2) using ascorbate as the specific electron donor. This enzyme has a key function in scavenging reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the protection against toxic effects of ROS in higher plants, algae, and Euglena. Here we report the identification of an APx multigene family in rice and propose a molecular evolutionary relationship between the diverse APx isoforms. In rice, the APx gene family has eight members, which encode two cytosolic, two putative peroxisomal, and four chloroplastic isoforms, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted using all APx protein sequences available in the NCBI databases. The results indicate that the different APx isoforms arose by a complex evolutionary process involving several gene duplications. The structural organization of APx genes also reflects this process and provides evidence for a close relationship among proteins located in the same subcellular compartment. A molecular evolutionary pathway, in which cytosolic and peroxisomal isoforms diverged early from chloroplastic ones, is proposed.
15599592	Potassium ions constitute the most important macronutrients taken up by plants. To unravel the mechanisms of K+ uptake and its sensitivity to salt stress in the model plant rice, we isolated and functionally characterized OsAKT1, a potassium channel homologous to the Arabidopsis root inward rectifier AKT1. OsAKT1 transcripts were predominantly found in the coleoptile and in the roots of young rice seedlings. K+ channel mRNA decreases in response to salt stress, both in the shoot and in the root of 4-day-old rice seedlings. Following expression in HEK293 cells, we were able to characterize OsAKT1 as a voltage-dependent, inward-rectifying K+ channel regulated by extracellular Ca2+ and protons. Patch-clamp studies on rice root protoplasts identified a K+ inward rectifier with similar channel properties as heterologously expressed OsAKT1. In line with the transcriptional downregulation of OsAKT1 in response to salt stress, inward K+ currents were significantly reduced in root protoplasts. Thus, OsAKT1 seems to represent the dominant salt-sensitive K+ uptake channel in rice roots.
15599593	We describe here a novel plant-specific gene, Lefsm1 (fruit SANT/MYB-like 1) harboring a single SANT/MYB domain. The expression of Lefsm1 is specific to the very early stages of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) fruit development. Ectopic expression of Lefsm1 results in severe developmental alterations manifested in retarded growth, and reduced apical dominance during tomato and Arabidopsis seedling development. A promoter sequence residing 1.0 kb upstream to the translation initiation codon confers the organ-specific expression of the gene. Lefsm1 belongs to a novel small gene family consisting of five to six members in tomato, Arabidopsis and rice. The SANT/MYB domain of LeFSM1 and its orthologs in Arabidopsis and rice differs from that of all other plant or animal MYB proteins and from the SANT domains found in part of the chromatin remodeling proteins. Together, our results indicate that Lefsm1 is a founding member of a small family of proteins containing a novel MYB/SANT domain which is likely to participate in the regulation of a plant-specific developmental program.
15600095	A pi-shaped ultrasonic actuator is proposed for the noncontact trapping, extraction, and transportation of small particles. In this actuator, two metal plates clamp a multilayer piezoelectric vibrator by a small bolt, and the metal plates are tapered in their lower parts so that a vibration gradient can be obtained. The flexural vibration of the metal plates is used to generate a sound field in the gap between the two tapered metal plates. At a driving frequency of about 152.8 kHz, shrimp eggs, grass seeds, thyme seeds, rice powder, fine salt, and fine sugar, which have an average diameter from several tens of micrometers to several hundreds of micrometers, can be trapped stably without contact with the actuator, and the particles insoluble in water can be extracted from water and transported in water by the actuator. In the noncontact trapping of small particles, the positions of trapped particles as well as the relationship among the number of trapped particles, vibration velocity, and input power are investigated. The number of trapped particles increases as the vibration velocity or input power increases. However, when the vibration velocity or input power is too large, the particles may be ejected out of the actuator and, therefore, cannot be stably trapped. The minimum vibration velocity to trap small particles increases as particle density increases for the particles that have the shape near to a sphere and a proper density. In the extraction of small particles from water, the relationship between the number of extracted thyme seeds and the input power is investigated. Increasing the input power can increase the extracted thyme seeds. However, there is a maximum particle number that can be extracted from water. In the transportation of thyme seeds in water, the dependence of the particle loss during the transportation on the speed and distance of transportation and the input power is experimentally estimated. As the distance and speed of transportation increase, the particle loss during the transportation increases. Increasing the input power increases the trapping effect and, therefore, decreases the particle loss.
1560029	Storage triacylglycerols (TAG) in plant seeds are present in small discrete intracellular organelles called oil bodies. An oil body has a matrix of TAG, which is surrounded by phospholipids (PL) and alkaline proteins, termed oleosins. Oil bodies isolated from mature maize (Zea mays) embryos maintained their discreteness, but coalesced after treatment with trypsin but not with phospholipase A2 or C. Phospholipase A2 or C exerted its activity on oil bodies only after the exposed portion of oleosins had been removed by trypsin. Attempts were made to reconstitute oil bodies from their constituents. TAG, either extracted from oil bodies or of a 1:2 molar mixture of triolein and trilinolein, in a dilute buffer were sonicated to produce droplets of sizes similar to those of oil bodies; these droplets were unstable and coalesced rapidly. Addition of oil body PL or dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine, with or without charged stearylamine/stearic acid, or oleosins, to the medium before sonication provided limited stabilization effects to the TAG droplets. High stability was achieved only when the TAG were sonicated with both oil body PL (or dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine) and oleosins of proportions similar to or higher than those in the native oil bodies. These stabilized droplets were similar to the isolated oil bodies in chemical properties, and can be considered as reconstituted oil bodies. Reconstituted oil bodies were also produced from TAG of a 1:2 molar mixture of triolein and trilinolein, dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine, and oleosins from rice (Oryza sativa), wheat (Triticum aestivum), rapeseed (Brassica napus), soybean (Glycine max), or jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis). It is concluded that both oleosins and PL are required to stabilize the oil bodies and that oleosins prevent oil bodies from coalescing by providing steric hindrance. A structural model of an oil body is presented. The current findings on seed oil bodies could be extended to the intracellular storage lipid particles present in diverse organisms.
15600594	The single-particle Brownian motion in simple monatomic liquids has been described with the help of the equation of motion in terms of velocity autocorrelation function psi(t) , where the particle is assumed to diffuse in a mean-time-dependent field. The equation of motion which is a second order differential equation in psi(t) has been solved in terms of nth order Bessel functions of the first and second kind. The solution is, in fact, the generalization of the solution given by Glass and Rice (GR) [Phys. Rev. 176, 239 (1968)] for low density fluids. The generalized solution is an improvisation over the one by GR and the results demonstrate that, for high density liquids such as liquid metals where the GR solution fails to give a reasonable account of psi(t) , the generalized solution could be very useful to calculate psi(t) . The present approach has been applied to the liquid alkali metals and binary alloys. The results are found to be in close agreement with the molecular dynamics results.
15601682	Tillering is an essential factor when estimating yield, but investigations rarely include both the temporal and spatial changes that occur in tillers. This study analyses the morphology and development dynamics of each tiller, based on its topological location, the timing of appearance and main stem development stage. An indica cultivar of rice, 'Ir64', glasshouse-grown (25/20 degrees C, 12 h photoperiod), was used to examine the emergence, phenology and morphology of each axis starting at the third leaf stage up to heading. Little variability was observed in the structural and morphological characteristics of the tillers, and the rice population appeared to be hierarchical. Blade length initially increased with leaf rank and then decreased sharply for the last three leaves. The number of phytomers per axis decreased with branching order and rank. An analysis of plant dynamics showed synchronous emergence of the leaves on the main stem and on the tillers up to flowering. Axillary bud development into tillers depended on their topological location and plant developmental stage. The timing and frequency of flowering tillers complied with rules of priority depending on their order, rank and emergence time. Precise description of plant topology in grasses is a useful tool that can be used to quantify growth events and predict tillering in terms of location, structure and fate according to growing conditions.
15602815	In order to gain fundamental insights into the nature of the adaptation to Mn excess, the characterisation of the photosynthetic apparatus in Mn-treated rice was carried out in 21-day-old plants. We found 17- and 11-fold increases in Mn in the leaf tissues and in thylakoid, respectively, when the plants were grown hydroponically in nutrient solutions with Mn concentrations between 0.125 and 32 mg l(-1) (2.3 and 582.5 microM). Net photosynthesis and the photosynthetic capacity decreased after the 0.5 and 2 mg l(-1) (9.1 and 36.4 microM) Mn treatment, respectively. The stomatal conductance displayed a similar trend to that of photosynthetic capacity. The levels of basal chlorophyll fluorescence and the ratio between variable and maximum chlorophyll fluorescence did not vary significantly among treatments, but the photochemical quenching and the quantum yield of non-cyclic electron transport increased until the 2 mg l(-1) (36.4 microM) Mn treatment. The lipid matrix of thylakoids revealed a global increase in the proportions of phospholipids, relative to galactolipids. This pattern was coupled with diminishing levels of monogalactosyldiacylglycerol. The relative ratio between total carotenoids and total chlorophylls decreased until the last Mn treatment, yet the levels of carotenes, zeaxanthin, and violaxanthin plus antheraxanthin displayed different patterns. It was further found that the de-epoxidation state involving the components of the xanthophylls cycle increased until the 8 mg l(-1) (145.6 microM) Mn treatment. The levels of the photosynthetic electron carriers displayed different patterns, with plastocyanin and the high and low forms of cytochrome b559 remaining steady, whereas cytochromes b563 and f increased until the 8 mg l(-1) (145.6 microM) Mn treatment and the quinone pool increased until the highest Mn treatment. It was concluded that Mn-mediated inhibition of rice photosynthesis barely implicates stomatal conductance, as well as the distribution of energy within the photosystems. In this context, alterations to the relative proportions of the different acyl lipids and isoprenoids, as well as to the accumulations of the photosynthetic electron carriers, seem to play a major role.
15603587	BACKGROUND: The amino acid composition of a low molecular weight chromium binding peptide (LMWCr), isolated from bovine liver, is reportedly E:G:C:D::4:2:2:2, though its sequence has not been discovered. There is some controversy surrounding the exact biochemical forms and the action of Cr(III) in biological systems; the topic has been the subject of many experimental reports and continues to be investigated. Clarification of Cr-protein interactions will further understanding Cr(III) biochemistry and provide a basis for novel therapies based on metallocomplexes or small molecules. RESULTS: A genomic search of the non-redundant database for all possible decapeptides of the reported composition yields three exact matches, EDGEECDCGE, DGEECDCGEE and CEGGCEEDDE. The first two sequences are found in ADAM 19 (A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase domain 19) proteins in man and mouse; the last is found in a protein kinase in rice (Oryza sativa). A broader search for pentameric sequences (and assuming a disulfide dimer) corresponding to the stoichiometric ratio E:D:G:C::2:1:1:1, within the set of human proteins and the set of proteins in, or related to, the insulin signaling pathway, yields a match at an acidic region in the alpha-subunit of the insulin receptor (-EECGD-, residues 175-184). A synthetic peptide derived from this sequence binds chromium(III) and forms a metal-peptide complex that has properties matching those reported for isolated LMWCr and Cr(III)-containing peptide fractions. CONCLUSION: The search for an acidic decameric sequence indicates that LMWCr may not be a contiguous sequence. The identification of a distinct pentameric sequence in a significant insulin-signaling pathway protein suggests a possible identity for the LMWCr peptide. This identification clarifies directions for further investigation of LMWCr peptide fractions, chromium bio-coordination chemistry and a possible role in the insulin signaling pathway. Implications for models of chromium action in the insulin-signaling pathway are discussed.
15604681	We previously isolated and identified numerous senescence-associated genes (SAGs) in rice leaves. Here we characterized the structure and function of an SAG- Osh69 encoding alkaline alpha-galactosidase that belongs to a novel family of glycosyl hydrolases. Osh69 is a single-copy gene composed of 13 exons located on rice chromosome 8. The expression level of Osh69 is not only up-regulated during natural leaf senescence but also induced rapidly by darkness, hormones (methyl jasmonic acid, salicylic acid), and stresses (H2O2 and wounding). The recombinant Osh69 protein over-expressed in Escherichia coli has displayed optimal alpha-galactosidase activity at pH 8.0. The enzyme showed good hydrolytic activities towards alpha-1,6-galactosyl oligosaccharides and galactolipid digalactosyl diacylglycerol. Immunoelectron microscopic analysis demonstrates that Osh69 is specifically localized in the chloroplasts of senescing leaves. These findings strongly suggest an important role for Osh69 in the degradation of chloroplast galactolipids during leaf senescence.
15604689	WRKY proteins constitute a large family of plant specific transcription factors implicated in many different processes. Here we describe Hv-WRKY38, a barley gene coding for a WRKY protein, whose expression is involved in cold and drought stress response. Hv-WRKY38 was early and transiently expressed during exposure to low non-freezing temperature, in ABA-independent manner. Furthermore, it showed a continuous induction during dehydration and freezing treatments. A WRKY38:YFP fusion protein was found to localise into the nucleus upon introduction into epidermal onion cells. Bacterially expressed Hv-WRKY38 was able to bind in vitro to the W-box element (T)TGAC(C/T) also recognisable by other WRKY proteins. Hv-WRKY38 genomic DNA was sequenced and mapped onto the centromeric region of the barley chromosome 6H. Arabidopsis and rice sequences homologous to Hv-WRKY38 were also identified. Our results indicate that Hv-WRKY38 transcription factor may play a regulatory role in abiotic stress response.
15604706	The recent draft sequencing of the rice (Oryza sativa) genome has enabled a genetic analysis of the glycosylation capabilities of an agroeconomically important group of plants, the monocotyledons. In this study, we have not only identified genes putatively encoding enzymes involved in N-glycosylation, but have examined by MALDI-TOF MS the structures of the N-glycans of rice and other monocotyledons (maize, wheat and dates; Zea mays, Triticum aestivum and Phoenix dactylifera); these data show that within the plant kingdom the types of N-glycans found are very similar between monocotyledons, dicotyledons and gymnosperms. Subsequently, we constructed expression vectors for the key enzymes forming plant-typical structures in rice, N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I (GlcNAc-TI; EC 2.4.1.101), core alpha1,3-fucosyltransferase (FucTA; EC 2.4.1.214) and beta1,2-xylosyltransferase (EC 2.4.2.38) and successfully expressed them in Pichia pastoris. Rice GlcNAc-TI, FucTA and xylosyltransferase are therefore the first monocotyledon glycosyltransferases involved in N-glycan biosynthesis to be characterised in a recombinant form.
15604710	Gibberellin (GA) 20-oxidase (GA20ox) is a key enzyme that normally catalyzes the penultimate steps in GA biosynthesis. One of the GA20ox genes in rice (Oryza sativa L.), OsGA20ox2 (SD1), is well known as the "Green Revolution gene", and loss-of function mutation in this locus causes semi-dwarfism. Another GA20ox gene, OsGA20ox1, has also been identified, but its contribution to plant stature has remained unclear because no suitable mutants have been available. We isolated a mutant, B142, tagged with a T-DNA containing three CaMV 35S promoters, which showed a tall, GA-overproduction phenotype. The final stature of the B142 mutant reflects internode overgrowth and is approximately twice that of its wild-type parent. This mutant responds to application of both GA3 and a GA biosynthesis inhibitor, indicating that it is a novel tall mutant of rice distinct from GA signaling mutants such as slr1 . The integrated T-DNAs, which contain three CaMV 35S promoters, are located upstream of the OsGA20ox1 open reading frame (ORF) in the B142 mutant genome. Analysis of mRNA and the endogenous GAs reveal that biologically active GA level is increased by up-regulation of the OsGA20ox1 gene in B142. Introduction of OsGA20ox1 cDNA driven by 35S promoter into the wild type phenocopies the morphological characteristics of B142. These results indicate that the elongated phenotype of the B142 mutant is caused by up-regulation of the OsGA20ox1 gene. Moreover, the final stature of rice was reduced by specific suppression of the OsGA20ox1 gene expression. This result indicates that not only OsGA20ox2 but also OsGA20ox1 affects plant stature.
15604716	Genes of the KN1-like homeobox (KNOX) class 1 encode transcription factors involved in shoot apical meristem development and maintenance. We studied the subcellular localization of Green Fluorescent Protein-tagged rice KNOX proteins (Oskn1-3) after particle bombardment of onion and rice cells and after transformation of Arabidopsis and rice with constitutive and inducible expression constructs. In all test systems, the three rice KNOX proteins showed nuclear and cytoplasmic localization patterns. However, Oskn1 additionally showed in some cells a distribution over punctae moving randomly in the cytosol. Use of an inducible expression system indicated a nuclear presence of Oskn1 in cells of the shoot apical meristem and post-transcriptional down-regulation in early leaf primordia. Arabidopsis and rice test systems were used to study effects of plant hormones and auxin transport inhibition on KNOX protein localization. Application of GA3 or 1-NAA shifted protein localization completely to the cytoplasm and resulted in loss of the punctae formed by Oskn1. Conversely, NPA application induced a complete nuclear localization of the KNOX proteins. To study intercellular movement of the KNOX proteins we set up a novel co-bombardment assay in which trafficking of untagged KNOX proteins was visualized through the co-trafficking of green fluorescent or blue fluorescent marker proteins. In multiple independent experiments Oskn1 trafficked more extensively to neighboring cells than Oskn2 and Oskn3. Differences in the localization and trafficking properties of Oskn1, Oskn2 and Oskn3 correlate with differences in mRNA localization patterns and functional differences between the rice KNOX genes and their putative orthologues from other species.
15604733	Members in the YABBY gene family of proteins are plant-specific transcription factors that play critical roles in determining organ polarity. We have isolated a cDNA clone from rice that encodes a YABBY protein. This protein, OsYAB1, is similar to Arabidopsis YAB2 (50.3%) and YAB5 (47.6%). It carries a zinc-finger motif and a YABBY domain, as do those in Arabidopsis . A fusion protein between OsYAB1 and GFP is located in the nucleus. RNA gel-blot analysis showed that the OsYAB1 gene is preferentially expressed in flowers. In-situ hybridization experiments also indicated that the transcript accumulated in the stamen and carpel primordia. Unlike the Arabidopsis YABBY genes, however, the OsYAB1 gene does not show polar expression pattern in the tissues of floral organs. Our transgenic plants that ectopically expressed OsYAB1 were normal during the vegetative growth period, but then showed abnormalities in their floral structures. Spikelets contained supernumerary stamens and carpels compared with those of the wild types. These results suggest that OsYAB1 plays a major role in meristem development and maintenance of stamens and carpels, rather than in determining polarity.
15604807	Rice and wheat brans, without additional nutrients and hydrolyzed by alpha-amylase and amyloglucosidase, were fermented to DL-lactic acid using a newly isolated strain of Lactobacillus sp. RKY2. In batch fermentations at 36 degrees C and pH 6, the amount of lactic acid in fermentation broth reached 129 g l(-1) by supplementation of rice bran with whole rice flour. The maximum productivity was 3.1 g lactic acid l(-1) h(-1) in rice bran medium supplemented with whole rice flour or whole wheat flour.
15605178	A family of Golgi-localised molecules was recently described in animals and fungi possessing extensive coiled regions and a short (approximately 40 residues) conserved C-terminal domain, called the GRIP domain, which is responsible for their location to this organelle. Using the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, we identified a gene (AtGRIP) encoding a putative GRIP protein. We demonstrated that the C-terminal domain from AtGRIP functions as a Golgi-targeting sequence in plant cells. Localisation studies in living cells expressing the AtGRIP fused to a DsRed2 fluorescent probe, showed extensive co-location with the Golgi marker alpha-mannosidase I in transformed tobacco protoplasts. GRIP-like sequences were also found in genomic databases of rice, maize, wheat and alfalfa, suggesting that this domain may be a useful Golgi marker for immunolocalisation studies. Despite low sequence identity amongst GRIP domains, the plant GRIP sequence was able to target to the Golgi of mammalian cells. Taken together, these data indicate that GRIP domain proteins might be implicated in a targeting mechanism that is conserved amongst eukaryotes.
15607103	A rat model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (Rice's model) was obtained by unilateral ligation of the common carotid artery of 7-day-old rats with hypoxia (exposure to 8% oxygen). To estimate the in vivo intracerebral reducing ability of the mature rats (8 weeks old) of Rice's model, temporal electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) imaging of the brain of a rat receiving a blood-brain barrier-permeable nitroxide radical, 3-hydroxymethyl-2,2,5,5-tetramethylpyrrolidine-1-oxyl, was performed. In this imaging technique, the decay rate of the EPR signal intensity in a selected region of the brain is indicative of region-specific reducing ability. The effect of neonatal treatment of an antioxidant agent, 3-methyl-1-phenyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one (MCI-186), after a hypoxic-ischemic insult was also tested. It was found that the reducing ability had been depleted in the contralateral hemisphere of Rice's model rats; this depletion was suppressed by administering MCI-186.
15607337	Entomological surveys were carried out from March 1998 to December 1999 to study the prevalence, distribution and abundance of malarial vectors in relation to selected environmental factors and potential mosquito breeding sites in irrigation channels in 15 villages in the Lunugamvehera Irrigation and Settlement Project, a malaria-endemic area of southern Sri Lanka. Mosquito collections were made at monthly intervals using four sampling methods. Thirteen anopheline species were collected. Following monsoonal rains, anopheline breeding took place primarily in rainwater accumulations. During the inter-monsoonal period, pools formed in the irrigation system, semi-permanent pools formed as a result of rainfall and permanent ground pools were the major breeding sites of anophelines. Very little anopheline breeding took place within the irrigation channels. Amongst the seven anopheline species collected from human dwellings, Anopheles subpictus was the most prevalent, followed by A. culicifacies; together these two species comprised more than 99% of the indoor resting population. The number of days of rain was an important macro-epidemiological factor influencing the density of malarial vectors. There was no consistent trend between the amount of water released or the number of days of water release from the reservoir and the outdoor or indoor resting densities of anophelines.
15607746	The RAPTOR/KOG1 proteins are binding partners of the target of rapamycin (TOR) kinase that is present in all eucaryotes and plays a central role in the stimulation of cell growth and metabolism in response to nutrients. We show in this report that two genes are coding for RAPTOR/KOG1 homologs in the Arabidopsis and rice genomes. Disruption of the Arabidopsis AtRaptor1 gene leads to a very early arrest of embryo development whereas disruption of the AtRaptor2 gene, which is expressed at a lower level than AtRaptor1, has no visible effects on embryo and plant development. We also observed that mutations in the AtRaptor1 gene result in an earlier halt of embryo development than disruption of the AtTor gene.
15608241	The Inparanoid eukaryotic ortholog database (http://inparanoid.cgb.ki.se/) is a collection of pairwise ortholog groups between 17 whole genomes; Anopheles gambiae, Caenorhabditis briggsae, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Danio rerio, Takifugu rubripes, Gallus gallus, Homo sapiens, Mus musculus, Pan troglodytes, Rattus norvegicus, Oryza sativa, Plasmodium falciparum, Arabidopsis thaliana, Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Complete proteomes for these genomes were derived from Ensembl and UniProt and compared pairwise using Blast, followed by a clustering step using the Inparanoid program. An Inparanoid cluster is seeded by a reciprocally best-matching ortholog pair, around which inparalogs (should they exist) are gathered independently, while outparalogs are excluded. The ortholog clusters can be searched on the website using Ensembl gene/protein or UniProt identifiers, annotation text or by Blast alignment against our protein datasets. The entire dataset can be downloaded, as can the Inparanoid program itself.
15608273	BarleyBase (BB) (www.barleybase.org) is an online database for plant microarrays with integrated tools for data visualization and statistical analysis. BB houses raw and normalized expression data from the two publicly available Affymetrix genome arrays, Barley1 and Arabidopsis ATH1 with plans to include the new Affymetrix 61K wheat, maize, soybean and rice arrays, as they become available. BB contains a broad set of query and display options at all data levels, ranging from experiments to individual hybridizations to probe sets down to individual probes. Users can perform cross-experiment queries on probe sets based on observed expression profiles and/or based on known biological information. Probe set queries are integrated with visualization and analysis tools such as the R statistical toolbox, data filters and a large variety of plot types. Controlled vocabularies for gene and plant ontologies, as well as interconnecting links to physical or genetic map and other genomic data in PlantGDB, Gramene and GrainGenes, allow users to perform EST alignments and gene function prediction using Barley1 exemplar sequences, thus, enhancing cross-species comparison.
15608281	A contig-oriented database for annotation of the rice genome has been constructed to facilitate map-based rice genomics. The Rice Annotation Database has the following functional features: (i) extensive effort of manual annotations of P1-derived artificial chromosome/bacterial artificial chromosome clones can be merged at chromosome and contig-level; (ii) concise visualization of the annotation information such as the predicted genes, results of various prediction programs (RiceHMM, Genscan, Genscan+, Fgenesh, GeneMark, etc.), homology to expressed sequence tag, full-length cDNA and protein; (iii) user-friendly clone / gene query system; (iv) download functions for nucleotide, amino acid and coding sequences; (v) analysis of various features of the genome (GC-content, average value, etc.); and (vi) genome-wide homology search (BLAST) of contig- and chromosome-level genome sequence to allow comparative analysis with the genome sequence of other organisms. As of October 2004, the database contains a total of 215 Mb sequence with relevant annotation results including 30 000 manually curated genes. The database can provide the latest information on manual annotation as well as a comprehensive structural analysis of various features of the rice genome. The database can be accessed at http://rad.dna.affrc.go.jp/.
15609572	Differentiation in photoperiodic response of flowering has been key to the evolution and wide geographic distribution of rice, an essentially short-day plant. Crosses were made such that the hybrid F1 plants flower later than the late-flowering parents to investigate the genetic basis underlying this differentiation. From initial experiments, three major genes for flowering time were identified from four naturally occurring variants under natural long-day conditions. An F2-derived trigenic mutant line bred-true for a day-neutral response was selected and used as the recipient to synchronize the genetic background for the major genes. Experiments conducted under various daylengths indicated that these genes are responsible for photoperiodic sensitivity and the trihybrid has a critical daylength between 13.5 and 14 h. The three genes regulate photoperiodic responses qualitatively and quantitatively through complementary and other epistatic effects, respectively. The complementation suggests that the three genes act in a linear manner to repress the transition from the vegetative to reproductive phases under long daylengths. This set of genes also provides a model to understand the genetic mechanism underlying the elongated vegetative growth period in the F1 generation, which is usually an obstacle to the use of heterosis, and the selection for early maturation in rice breeding.
15609772	Although food allergy is common in children, rice allergy is unusual in Western cultures. To report a case of T-cell-mediated rice intolerance in an 11-month-old girl. To evaluate the intolerance to rice in this patient, a graded rice food challenge was performed. To examine the immunologic reactivity to rice, in vitro lymphoproliferative responses and cytokine synthesis of rice-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) was performed. Subsequently, skin patch testing to rice and other foods was performed. Allergy skin prick test results were negative for rice and positive for egg, milk, and soy. Specific IgE antibodies to rice, egg, peanut, wheat, walnut, codfish, milk, soybean, corn, shrimp, scallops, and clams were undetectable. Results of a single-blind rice food challenge were positive, manifested by emesis that persisted for more than an hour and required intravenous hydration. In vitro lymphoproliferation by the patient's PBLs to rice stimulation was positive. In addition, cytokine synthesis of interferon-gamma, interleukin 10 (IL-10), tumor necrosis factor a, and IL-5 by the patient's rice-stimulated PBLs was elevated, indicating a TH1/TH2 cell response to rice. Endoscopy revealed normal esophageal, gastric, and duodenal mucosa; a biopsy specimen revealed mild esophagitis. Duodenal explant T cells were initially established by stimulation with rice and IL-2. After a 2-day rest, the lymphocytes were restimulated with rice for 7 days and revealed increased interferon-gamma and IL-5 synthesis. Twenty billion colony forming units of Lactobacillus GG were added to the patient's diet twice daily. After 6 weeks, rice rechallenge resulted in emesis within 1 hour. Results of patch testing were positive to rice, wheat, and barley but negative to soy, which the patient tolerated on food challenge. Although this patient did not demonstrate IgE antibody to rice, TH1/TH2 cell-mediated responses to rice were detected, and the patient experienced significant morbidity. Patch testing for gastrointestinal food allergies may be useful when the food specific IgE antibody is negative. Probiotic therapy in this patient did not ameliorate her sensitivity to rice, and food elimination remains the only reliable treatment for TH1/TH2-mediated food hypersensitivity.
15610351	We cloned a novel prolyl 4-hydroxylase (PH; EC 1.14.11.2) homolog cDNA from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells based on expression sequence tag information. Like other PHs, this tobacco PH polypeptide has two conserved histidine residues, and it comprises 286 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 32 kDa. Interestingly, this protein and homologs in Arabidopsis and rice have predicted transmembrane sequences in their N-terminal regions. This PH homolog was expressed in BY-2 cells as a His-tagged protein, and the expressed protein showed PH activity. Incubation of membranes with high salt, urea, and protease with or without detergents indicated that this protein is an integral membrane protein with a type II configuration. Its membrane-anchored nature is specific for plants because no integral membrane PH has been found in animals. A membrane fractionation study and immunocytochemical studies indicate that this protein localizes in both the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi apparatus. Analysis of this protein fused to green fluorescent protein indicated that basic amino acids in the cytoplasmic, N-terminal region of the PH play a role in its export from the ER.
15610427	To study the antifungal activity and plant beneficial traits of a broad-spectrum antagonistic fluorescent pseudomonad strain, PUPa3. Strain PUPa3 was isolated from the rhizosphere soil of rice and identified as Pseudomonas aeruginosa on the basis of biochemical tests and by comparison of 16S rDNA sequences. This bacterium exhibits a broad-spectrum antifungal activity towards phytopathogenic fungi. The antifungal metabolite by PUPa3 was extracted, purified and characterized using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and mass spectroscopy (MS). Production of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), siderophores, phosphatase and protease in PUPa3 was determined. Strain PUPa3 did not produce hydrogen cyanide, cellulase and pectinase. The antifungal metabolite produced by PUPa3 has been identified as phenazine-1-carboxamide (PCN) on the basis of NMR and MS data. Strain PUPa3 showed a broad-spectrum antifungal activity towards a range of phytopathogenic fungi. This bacterium also showed several plant growth-promoting traits but did not show the traits attributed to deleterious rhizobacteria. Present study reports the production of PCN as well as IAA for the first time by a saprophytic P. aeruginosa strain PUPa3. Because of the production of siderophore, growth hormone, protease and phosphatase and its innate fungicidal potential, this strain can be used as biofertilizer and antagonist against a range of phytopathogenic fungi that infect rice, groundnut, tobacco, chili, mango, sugarcane, tea, cotton and banana.
15611184	Genetic architecture of flowering time in maize was addressed by synthesizing a total of 313 quantitative trait loci (QTL) available for this trait. These were analyzed first with an overview statistic that highlighted regions of key importance and then with a meta-analysis method that yielded a synthetic genetic model with 62 consensus QTL. Six of these displayed a major effect. Meta-analysis led in this case to a twofold increase in the precision in QTL position estimation, when compared to the most precise initial QTL position within the corresponding region. The 62 consensus QTL were compared first to the positions of the few flowering-time candidate genes that have been mapped in maize. We then projected rice candidate genes onto the maize genome using a synteny conservation approach based on comparative mapping between the maize genetic map and japonica rice physical map. This yielded 19 associations between maize QTL and genes involved in flowering time in rice and in Arabidopsis. Results suggest that the combination of meta-analysis within a species of interest and synteny-based projections from a related model plant can be an efficient strategy for identifying new candidate genes for trait variation.
15611185	As the basis for fine mapping of a grain-weight QTL, gw3.1, a set of near isogenic lines (NILs), was developed from an Oryza sativa, cv. Jefferson x O. rufipogon (IRGC105491) population based on five generations of backcrossing and seven generations of selfing. Despite the use of an interspecific cross for mapping and the pericentromeric location of the QTL, we observed no suppression of recombination and have been able to narrow down the location of the gene underlying this QTL to a 93.8-kb region. The locus was associated with transgressive variation for grain size and grain weight in this population and features prominently in many other inter- and intraspecific crosses of rice. The phenotype was difficult to evaluate due to the large amount of variance in size and weight among grains on a panicle and between grains on primary and secondary panicles, underscoring the value of using multiple approaches to phenotyping, including extreme sampling and NIL group-mean comparisons. The fact that a QTL for kernel size has also been identified in a homeologous region of maize chromosome 1 suggests that this locus, in which the dominant O. rufipogon allele confers small seed size, may be associated with domestication in cereals.
15612280	One prominent concern about genetically modified crops is the possibility of environmental impacts from the movement of fitness-enhancing traits to wild plant populations. Decisions to deregulate Bt crops in the USA have relied strongly on arguments that these crops will not interbreed with wild relatives in the permitted growing regions. Limited attention therefore has been directed to analyses of the consequences of gene flow. To provide a transparent evaluation process for risks associated with insecticidal transgene escape, we crafted a series of questions designed to guide this aspect of the risk assessment. We then explored the current knowledge base available for answering such risk-related questions for three Bt crops (cotton, rapeseed, and rice). First, we generated a list of wild relatives of these crops. A definitive list of potential transgene recipients is not yet possible for some crops. Sufficient data are not available for some crops to eliminate certain related plant species from consideration of fertile hybrid formation, thus making lists for these crops subject to speculation. Second, we queried the HOSTS database (UK) to obtain a worldwide listing of lepidopteran species that feed on these crops and their wild relatives, and to determine the host range of the larvae. To our knowledge, this list of 502 lepidopteran species is the first such list published for these crops and wild crop relatives. Third, we used a data set maintained by the Canadian Forest Service to assess Bt toxin susceptibility for these lepidopterans. Only 3% of those species have been tested for susceptibility; and the literature suggests that generalizations about susceptibility among taxa are difficult due to the variability within families. Fourth, we consulted the literature to interpret what is known about the ability of lepidopterans to regulate plant fitness or invasiveness. We could not eliminate the possibility of ecological release due to plant resistance against lepidopterans. In fact, there is strong experimental evidence that lepidopteran herbivores do limit the distribution and/or abundances of at least some wild plant species. Neither could we eliminate the possibility that non-target lepidopterans might have important functions in the ecosystem as pollinators or alternate hosts to natural enemies of pest species. This study suggests that crucial data are lacking for the development of a credible scientific basis to confirm or deny environmental risks associated with the escape of Bt transgene constructs to wild relatives. Given the absence of information on the identity, level of susceptibility, and ecological roles of lepidopterans exploiting specific wild relatives of Bt crops, we suggest that new efforts be directed to assessing possible consequences of lepidopteran mortality on resistant wild relatives.
15612416	Endotoxins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) produced in transgenic pest-resistant Bt crops are generally not toxic to predatory and parasitic arthropods. However, elimination of Bt-susceptible prey and hosts in Bt crops could reduce predator and parasitoid abundance and thereby disrupt biological control of other herbivorous pests. Here we report results of a field study evaluating the effects of Bt sprays on non-target terrestrial herbivore and natural enemy assemblages from three rice (Oryza sativa L.) fields on Luzon Island, Philippines. Because of restrictions on field-testing of transgenic rice, Bt sprays were used to remove foliage-feeding lepidopteran larvae that would be targeted by Bt rice. Data from a 546-taxa Philippines-wide food web, matched abundance plots, species accumulation curves, time-series analysis, and ecostatistical tests for species richness and ranked abundance were used to compare different subsets of non-target herbivores, predators, and parasitoids in Bt sprayed and water-sprayed (control) plots. For whole communities of terrestrial predators and parasitoids, Bt sprays altered parasitoid richness in 3 of 3 sites and predator richness in 1 of 3 sites, as measured by rarefaction (in half of these cases, richness was greater in Bt plots), while Spearman tests on ranked abundances showed that correlations, although significantly positive between all treatment pairs, were stronger for predators than for parasitoids, suggesting that parasitoid complexes may have been more sensitive than predators to the effects of Bt sprays. Species accumulation curves and time-series analyses of population trends revealed no evidence that Bt sprays altered the overall buildup of predator or parasitoid communities or population trajectories of non-target herbivores (planthoppers and leafhoppers) nor was evidence found for bottom-up effects in total abundances of non-target species identified in the food web from the addition of spores in the Bt spray formulation. When the same methods were applied to natural enemies (predators and parasitoids) of foliage-feeding lepidopteran and non-lepidopteran (homopteran, hemipteran and dipteran) herbivores, significant differences between treatments were detected in 7 of 12 cases. However, no treatment differences were found in mean abundances of these natural enemies, either in time-series plots or in total (seasonal) abundance. Analysis of guild-level trajectories revealed population behavior and treatment differences that could not be predicted in whole-community studies of predators and parasitoids. A more conclusive test of the impact of Bt rice will require field experiments with transgenic plants, conducted in a range of Asian environments, and over multiple cropping seasons.
15612493	In order to determine the Sterigmatocystin (ST) contaminated in grains by indirect competitive enzyme link immune sorbent assays (IC-ELISA), 1580 samples including wheat, corn and rice were taken from 12 provinces located in East-north, west-north, west-south, east and central China. Results showed that the average contaminated content of ST in wheat, corn and rice was 68.9 ug/kg, 32.2 ug/kg and 13.9 ug/kg respectively. Also, the contaminated rate was 98%, 89% and 72% respectively. The contaminated content and rate of ST was highest in wheat followed by corn and the rice ranged in third that was statistically highly significant. Severity of contamination was different in different geo-regions with higher in east China and Western China that in north-east China, central China and south-western China that were statistically highly significant.
15612752	To evaluate the effectiveness in adsorbing organochlorine compounds such as chloroform, dichloromethane, or benzene by lees materials, the determination of spherosomes from different lees materials was established by using a hemacytometer under an optical microscope. Rice bran, wheat bran, rapeseed, linseed, okara, and sakekasu were used for this investigation, and activated carbon was also used as a standard adsorbent material. The number of spherosomes varied from 1.82 x 10(10) particles/g for sakekasu to 4.95 x 10(10) particles/g for wheat bran. There was a high correlation between the removal efficiency in adsorbing organochlorine compounds such as chloroform, dichloromethane, or benzene by lees materials and the number of spherosomes from different lees materials.
15613689	Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) composed of Galpha, Gbeta, and Ggamma subunits are important transducers of hormonal signals in organisms as evolutionarily distant as plants and humans. The genomes of diploid angiosperms, such as that of the model species Arabidopsis thaliana, encode only single canonical Galpha and Gbeta subunits, only two identified Ggamma subunits, and just one regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) protein. However, a wide range of processes-including seed germination, shoot and root growth, and stomatal regulation-are altered in Arabidopsis and rice plants with mutations in G protein components. Such mutants exhibit altered responsiveness to a number of plant hormones, including gibberellins, brassinosteroids, abscisic acid, and auxin. This review describes possible mechanisms by which such pleiotropic effects are generated and considers possible explanations for why G protein component mutations in plants fail to be lethal. A possible role of G protein signaling in the control of phenotypic plasticity, a hallmark of plant growth, is also discussed.
15616142	The centromeric retrotransposon (CR) family in the grass species is one of few Ty3-gypsy groups of retroelements that preferentially transpose into highly specialized chromosomal domains. It has been demonstrated in both rice and maize that CRR (CR of rice) and CRM (CR of maize) elements are intermingled with centromeric satellite DNA and are highly concentrated within cytologically defined centromeres. We collected all of the CRR elements from rice chromosomes 1, 4, 8, and 10 that have been sequenced to high quality. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the CRR elements are structurally diverged into four subfamilies, including two autonomous subfamilies (CRR1 and CRR2) and two nonautonomous subfamilies (noaCRR1 and noaCRR2). The CRR1/CRR2 elements contain all characteristic protein domains required for retrotransposition. In contrast, the noaCRR elements have different structures, containing only a gag or gag-pro domain or no open reading frames. The CRR and noaCRR elements share substantial sequence similarity in regions required for DNA replication and for recognition by integrase during retrotransposition. These data, coupled with the presence of young noaCRR elements in the rice genome and similar chromosomal distribution patterns between noaCRR1 and CRR1/CRR2 elements, suggest that the noaCRR elements were likely mobilized through the retrotransposition machinery from the autonomous CRR elements. Mechanisms of the targeting specificity of the CRR elements, as well as their role in centromere function, are discussed.
15616769	Gastric cancer is a frequent malignancy in the Uruguayan population. In northern counties, incidence rates reach high figures (age-standardized rates [ASR], 37.3 per 100,000 men and 18.3 per 100,000 women). Diet is a major determinant in gastric carcinogenesis. Because foods or food groups have the advantage over nutrients in being most directly related to dietary recommendations, we decided to conduct a case-control study on the relationships between food groups and risk of gastric cancer. For this purpose, we included 240 cases and 960 controls. In the present study we employed three analytical approaches: (1) individual food group analysis, (2) factor analysis, and (3) analysis of empirical scores of risk. Individual analysis of food groups was performed by multiple unconditional logistic regression, with food groups being the explanatory variables. Nineteen food groups were created and categorized in tertiles according to the control distribution. Factor analysis aggregated intercorrelated foods in broader eating patterns. In this study we were able to identify three factors or patterns, arbitrarily labeled "starchy," "healthy," and "mixed." Finally, empirical scores of risk were created after examining the risk of each individual food and summing each significant item. This resulted in a risk enhancing score and a protective score. Both scores were categorized in tertiles according to the control distribution. The individual analysis of food groups showed increased risks of gastric cancer for rice, salted meat, stewed meat, white bread, potatoes, and tubers. On the other hand, raw vegetables, total fruits, legumes, and black tea were inversely associated with risk of gastric cancer. All three dietary patterns, generated by factor analysis, were significantly associated with gastric carcinoma risk. Whereas the starchy factor was directly associated with gastric cancer, the healthy and mixed patterns were strongly protective. Finally, the risk enhancing empirical score displayed an increased risk of gastric cancer (odds ratio [OR], 4.1, 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.6-6.6), whereas the protective score showed an important reduction in risk, of 0.38. This study displayed consistent results from three different approaches. Concerning different food groups, stewed and processed meat are rich in salt; rice, tubers, and winter squash are sources of starch; and vegetables and fruits are rich in ascorbic acid and carotenoids. All these substances have been strongly related to gastric carcinogenesis. Furthermore, this study suggests that diets rich in vegetables and fruits and with low amounts of salty and starchy foods are recommendable for the prevention of gastric cancer.
15617798	We report the first phenotypic and genotypic characterisation of Bacillus cereus from Bangladeshi rice. Seven strains of B. cereus were isolated from two high-yielding rice varieties (BR5 and BRRI Dhan28) which are cultivated during different rice-growing seasons in Bangladesh. The strains were identified as B. cereus based on colonial and cellular (light microscopic) morphology and were confirmed using the API 50 CHB test system and 16S rDNA analysis. They could also be distinguished from each other based on their substrate-utilisation patterns using the API system. No psychrotrophic (cold-tolerant) isolates were obtained and all were mesophilic with a minimum growth temperature of 10 degrees C, but with an ability to grow at a higher rate than normal temperature (45 degrees C) for B. cereus. All strains had temperature optima between 35 and 45 degrees C, but two groups could be distinguished based on having either a narrow or a broad optimum range. The different strains could not be distinguished based on their phospholipid compositions including major fatty acyl chains which were typical for B. cereus. However, capillary-GC/MS analysis of trace fatty acyl components of the lipids has been used for the first time to group the isolates. Genotypic analysis of the rDNA region has also been used to distinguish the strains. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of the spacer region between the 16S and 23S rRNA genes yielded two groups based on different base sequences, whereas sequence analysis of variable regions in the 16S rRNA gene gave four different groups by base differences at two positions. Despite their association with rice, none of the strains produced emetic toxin. The spore germination response of heat-activated spores of the Bangladeshi B. cereus strains was typical of the bacterium, but three different groups could be identified based on differences in germination rates. The use of this polyphasic approach to taxonomy has enabled all the B. cereus strains to be distinguished from each other.
15618416	The WRKY proteins are a superfamily of regulators that control diverse developmental and physiological processes. This family was believed to be plant specific until the recent identification of WRKY genes in nonphotosynthetic eukaryotes. We have undertaken a comprehensive computational analysis of the rice (Oryza sativa) genomic sequences and predicted the structures of 81 OsWRKY genes, 48 of which are supported by full-length cDNA sequences. Eleven OsWRKY proteins contain two conserved WRKY domains, while the rest have only one. Phylogenetic analyses of the WRKY domain sequences provide support for the hypothesis that gene duplication of single- and two-domain WRKY genes, and loss of the WRKY domain, occurred in the evolutionary history of this gene family in rice. The phylogeny deduced from the WRKY domain peptide sequences is further supported by the position and phase of the intron in the regions encoding the WRKY domains. Analyses for chromosomal distributions reveal that 26% of the predicted OsWRKY genes are located on chromosome 1. Among the dozen genes tested, OsWRKY24, -51, -71, and -72 are induced by abscisic acid (ABA) in aleurone cells. Using a transient expression system, we have demonstrated that OsWRKY24 and -45 repress ABA induction of the HVA22 promoter-beta-glucuronidase construct, while OsWRKY72 and -77 synergistically interact with ABA to activate this reporter construct. This study provides a solid base for functional genomics studies of this important superfamily of regulatory genes in monocotyledonous plants and reveals a novel function for WRKY genes, i.e. mediating plant responses to ABA.
15618430	To examine the role of isoamylase1 (ISA1) in amylopectin biosynthesis in plants, a genomic DNA fragment from Aegilops tauschii was introduced into the ISA1-deficient rice (Oryza sativa) sugary-1 mutant line EM914, in which endosperm starch is completely replaced by phytoglycogen. A. tauschii is the D genome donor of wheat (Triticum aestivum), and the introduced fragment effectively included the gene for ISA1 for wheat (TaISA1) that was encoded on the D genome. In TaISA1-expressing rice endosperm, phytoglycogen synthesis was substantially replaced by starch synthesis, leaving only residual levels of phytoglycogen. The levels of residual phytoglycogen present were inversely proportional to the expression level of the TaISA1 protein, although the level of pullulanase that had been reduced in EM914 was restored to the same level as that in the wild type. Small but significant differences were found in the amylopectin chain-length distribution, gelatinization temperatures, and A-type x-ray diffraction patterns of the starches from lines expressing TaISA1 when compared with wild-type rice starch, although in the first two parameters, the effect was proportional to the expression level of TaISA. The impact of expression levels of ISA1 on starch structure and properties provides support for the view that ISA1 is directly involved in the synthesis of amylopectin.
15618434	All organisms have defense systems against oxidative stress that include multiple genes of antioxidant defense. These genes are induced by reactive oxygen species under condition of oxidative stress. In this study, we found that a 28-bp motif is conserved on the promoter regions of three antioxidant defense genes in rice (Oryza sativa): cytosolic superoxide dismutase (sodCc1), cytosolic thioredoxin (trxh), and glutaredoxin (grx). We demonstrated that the 28-bp sequence acts as a cis-element responsive to oxidative stress by transient expression assay and designated it as CORE (coordinate regulatory element for antioxidant defense). The CORE was activated by methyl viologen treatment and induced a 3.1-fold increase in expression of the reporter gene, but it did not respond to hydrogen peroxide. The expressions of the sodCc1, trxh, and grx genes were coordinately induced by methyl viologen, suggesting that multiple genes involved in antioxidant defense are controlled by a common regulatory mechanism via CORE. Application of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase inhibitor caused the constitutive induction of the sodCc1, trxh, and grx genes and the activation of CORE without methyl viologen treatment. These results indicate that a mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade is involved in the gene regulation mediated by CORE.
15618617	Phenolic composition and radical scavenging activity in the shochu distillery by-products of sweetpotato (Ipomoea batatas L.) treated with koji (Aspergillus awamori mut.) and cellulase (Cellulosin T2) were investigated to develop new uses. Koji and Cellulosin T2 treatment of shochu distillery by-products from sweetpotatoes, rice, and barley increased phenolic content. Caffeic acid was identified as a dominant phenolic component in the shochu distillery by-products of the sweetpotato. Adding koji and/or Cellulosin T2 to the shochu distillery by-product indicated that koji was involved in caffeic acid production. Caffeic acid was not detected in raw or steamed roots of "Koganesengan", the material of sweetpotato for shochu production, suggesting that it is produced during shochu fermentation. The phenolic content and radical scavenging activity the shochu distillery by-product treated with koji and Cellulosin T2 were superior to those of commercial vinegar. These results suggest that koji treatment of sweetpotato-derived shochu distillery by-products has potential for food materials with physiological functions. Further koji treatment of sweetpotato shochu-distillery by-products may be applicable to mass production of caffeic acid.
15618628	Human lactoferrin was produced in genetically engineered rice. N-linked glycan structures of recombinant human lactoferrin were determined. The oligosaccharides liberated by hydrazinolysis were labeled with 2-aminopyridine (PA). The PA-labeled glycans were purified by reverse-phase and size-fractionation HPLCs. The structures of these glycans were identified by HPLC, exoglycosidase digestion, and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry. The glycan structures determined were ManFucXylGlcNAc(2) (3.4%), Man(2)FucGlcNAc(2) (2.1%), Man(3)FucGlcNAc(2) (2.5%), Man(3)FucXylGlcNAc(2) (42.5%), two isomers of Man(2)FucXylGlcNAc(2) (39.1%), Man(3)XylGlcNAc(2) (6.5%), and Man(2)XylGlcNAc(2) (3.9%).
15619733	Three red rice ecotypes (Oryza spp), including LA 5, MS 5 and TX 4, were evaluated for acetolactate synthase resistance/tolerance to imazethapyr. The red rice ecotypes were compared with a tolerant line (CL-121), a resistant line (CL-161) and a conventional rice variety (Cypress). Based on enzymatic activity, the mean I(50) values were 1.5, 1.1, 1.5, 1.6, 20.8 and 590.6 microM imazethapyr, respectively, for LA 5, MS 5, TX 4, Cypress, CL-121 and CL-161. CL-161 was 32 times more resistant than CL-121 and at least 420 times more resistant than the average of the red rice ecotypes and Cypress. Results from the acetolactate synthase (ALS) assay showed that red rice ecotypes and Cypress had high susceptibility to imazethapyr when compared with the tolerant CL-121 and the resistant CL-161. Measurable enzymatic tolerance to ALS-inhibiting herbicides has not yet developed in these red rice ecotypes.
15620091	A field experiment was performed to evaluate water and nutrient balances in paddy rice culture operations during 2001-2002. The water balance analysis indicated that about half (50-60%) of the total outflow was lost by surface drainage, with the remainder occurring by evapotranspiration (490-530 mm). The surface drainage from paddy fields was mainly caused by rainfall and forced-drainage, and in particular, the runoff during early rice culture periods depends more on the forced-drainage due to fertilization practices. Most of the total phosphorus (T-P) inflow was supplied by fertilization at transplanting, while the total nitrogen (T-N) inflow was supplied by the three fertilizations, precipitation. and from the upper paddy field, which comprised 13-33% of the total inflow. Although most of the nutrient outflow was attributed to plant uptake. nutrient loss by surface drainage was substantial, comprising 20% for T-N and 10% for T-P. Water and nutrient balances indicate that reduction of surface drainage from paddy rice fields is imperative for nonpoint source pollution control. The simplified computer model, PADDIMOD, was developed to simulate water and nutrient (T-N and T-P) behavior in the paddy rice field. The model predicts daily ponded water depth, surface drainage, and nutrient concentrations. It was formulated with a few equations and simplified assumptions, but its application and a model fitness test indicated that the simulation results reasonably matched the observed data. It is a simple and convenient planning model that could be used to evaluate BMPs of paddy rice fields alone or in combination with other complex watershed models. Application of the PADDIMOD to other paddy rice fields with different agricultural environments might require further calibration and validation.
15620214	Suppression subtractive hybridization was carried out to enrich gene fragments over-expressed in rice leaves by subtraction to rice roots, from which two identical cDNA fragments were identified to encode putative phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. Then the corresponding full-length cDNA (Osppc) is isolated by RT-PCR and sequenced, which indicates an open reading frame of 2895bp is contained. Its deduced protein is encoded in 10 exons and shows high similarity to many other plant PEPCs. Comparing with maize and bacterial PEPCs, it is revealed that OSPPC shares many conserved domains and active sites that responsible for the structure, activity and regulation of this enzyme. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrates that OSPPC is grouped with C3 form PEPCs of wheat, maize and sorghum, which is consistent with the classification of rice. And a putative promoter element is predicted with DOF binding box, CAAT box and TATA box in the 5'-flanking sequence of Osppc gene. Moreover, Quantitative RT-PCR analyses are performed in hybrid rice and its parents, which show that Osppc is specifically expressed in leaf including leaf vein and sheath.
15620222	cDNA sequences of malate dehydrogenase (MDH) were cloned from various species, and MDH was identified to play an important role in cell energy metabolism. Here, we present the isolation and characterization of its homologue (OscMDH) in Oryza sativa. Comparison of the results to the genome details indicated that OscMDH consisted of seven exons. Sequence alignment showed that the deduced amino acid sequence of OscMDH shared a significant similarity with cMDH protein in Zea mays, as well as with other cMDH gene products. The different expression patterns of OscMDH in different tissues revealed that OscMDH mRNA was highly transcribed in either young panicle or immature seed, while its abundance was much low in green leaf and root. A nearly 56-kDa fusion protein generated by adding a Trx-His-tag at the N-terminal of OscMDH was induced by IPTG in Escherichia coli BL21 and an obvious MDH activity was detected in the protein by native PAGE analysis. All these results suggest that OscMDH encodes a cytosolic MDH in rice.
15620760	The bioaccumulation of six metals (Fe, Mn, Zn, Cd, Pb and Cu) was studied as part of the monitoring of the Aznalcóllar mining spill (April 1998) on the Guadalquivir estuary and in other estuaries located in the Gulf of Cádiz. Fish, clams and oysters were collected during different seasonal periods along the years 2000 and 2001 in the Guadalquivir estuary to determine the bioaccumulation of the metals originated by the mining spill. Results were compared to the bioaccumulation of the same metals in fish and clams exposed in the laboratory to sediments collected in the same areas during autumn 2001. The bioaccumulation of these metals was compared to the concentration of metals measured in tissues of same taxas collected in the areas of the ria of Huelva and the Bay of Cádiz. Results show that the bioaccumulation of Zn and Cd in the organisms sampled in the Guadalquivir estuary was associated with the enrichment of these metals in the estuary from the mining spill and decreased along the time reaching the lowest values in autumn 2001. The metal Cu show different trends that are associated with other sources of contamination than the spill and related to the transport of this metal from Huelva to Guadalquivir estuary and/or to the use of this metal as plaguicide in the rice fields located in the area. The comparison between bioaccumulation results under field and laboratory conditions obtained in the different areas of study shows that these data can be used to discriminate between acute and chronic impacts associated with mining activities.
15623037	The expression and root exudation of Cry1Ab toxin protein in cry1Ab transgenic rice (KMD) and its residue in rhizosphere soil were investigated. The results showed that content of Cry1Ab toxin protein in the shoot and root of KMD were 3.23-8.22 and 0.68-0.89 microg/g from early tillering to maturing stage, respectively. The content of the Cry1Ab toxin proteins via root exudation were 1.66-48.02 ng/(individual x d) at that phase. The results also demonstrated that the residue of the Cry1Ab toxin protein in rhizosphere soil was less than detectable level (0.5 ng/g air-dried soil). In addition, insecticidal bioassay indicated that rhizosphere soil and its extraction solution had no significant effect on mortality of first- and third-instar larvae of cotton bollworm (Heliochis armigera). It suggested that the KMD straws returned to the field might have the higher potential environmental risk than the root exudation.
15623229	Molecular and functional characteristics of seven azospirilla and five phosphorus solubilizing bacteria (PSB) isolates of rice rhizosphere, growth promotion ability of two efficient strains, Azospirillum amazonense A10 (MTCC4716) and Bacillus megaterium P5 (MTCC4714) and their persistence based on streptomycin resistant derivatives (SRD), were determined. SDS-PAGE and isozyme banding patterns of the isolates were used to arbitrarily group the azospirilla into 4 and PSB into 3 clusters and as markers to ascertain their identity. The azospirilla produced 2.0 to 10.5 ppm of IAA like substances and showed nitrogenase activity of 0.02 to 3.55 nmole C2H4/hr/ml of pure culture. PSB isolates produced 7.8 to 15.0 ppm IAA like substances and 20 to 128 ppm soluble P. Induction of resistance to streptomycin resulted in changes of these properties. Co-inoculation of rice with SRD A10 and SRD P5 and their parental strains in separate treatments enhanced grain yield over control by 31 and 12.4%, respectively. Nitrogenase activity of rice roots under SRD co-inoculated treatment was higher (4.16 nmole C2H4/hr/hill) than that-under parental strains co-inoculated treatment (3.76 nmole C2H4/hr/hill). SDS-PAGE profile and population count of the strains confirmed their establishment in rice rhizosphere and persistence over a year after inoculation.
15623840	Rats fed diets with cadmium (Cd) concentrations similar to that found in human diets, and nutritionally marginal with respect to iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), and calcium (Ca) retained 10 times more Cd in the duodenum than rats fed adequate mineral diets. In the current study, 2 experiments were performed to determine the role of intestinal metallothionein (MT) in the accumulation of duodenal Cd, and to determine whether endogenous rice grain Cd is as available as Cd exogenously incorporated into the grain. In Expt. 1, wild-type and MT-null mice were fed 40% rice diets containing marginal or adequate amounts of Fe, Zn, and Ca, and 240 mug Cd/kg. Duodenal Cd was 10 times higher in both wild-type and MT-null mice regardless of their mineral status. In Expt. 2, one group of rats was fed 40% rice diets in which Cd was incorporated into the rice during growth and maturation, and another group was fed 40% rice diets in which Cd was incorporated into the rice during cooking. Each group also was fed either marginal or adequate amounts of Zn, Fe, and Ca. After 5 wk, rats were given a single meal labeled with (109)Cd, and the amount of label retained after 7 d was determined by whole-body counting. Rats with marginal mineral status retained 10 times more (109)Cd than those with adequate status; however, there was no difference between rats fed endogenous or exogenous Cd rice. Although duodenal Cd concentration was 8 times higher in the marginally fed rats, MT concentration was unchanged. These 2 experiments indicate that MT induction is not involved in duodenal Cd accumulation in animals with marginal dietary status of Fe, Zn, and Ca. In addition, they support the hypothesis that marginal deficiencies of Fe, Zn, and Ca, commonly found in certain human populations subsisting on rice-based diets, play an important role in increasing the risk of dietary Cd exposure.
15624820	The effect of CO2 enrichment on soil microbial biomass in 0-5 cm and 5-10 cm soil layers under rice-wheat rotation was studied under the conditions of routine cultivation, irrigation and fertilization. The results showed that FACE treatment could significantly increase the amount of soil bacteria in 0-5 cm and 5-10 cm soil layers during rice jointing stage and wheat wintering and ripening stages. Elevated CO2 only significantly increased the amount of soil fungi in 0-5 cm soil layer during rice ripening stage. During the whole period of rotation, the amount of soil bacteria was greater than that of soil fungi.
15624826	Developing water-saving rice cultivation is one important strategy for food security in China. This paper reported the experimental results of introducing six upland rice cultivars to eastern Keerqin sandy land. The field experiment results showed that under the condition of 60% water-saving, the yield of cultivars XH 95-13 and XH 95-13-6 was 10.2% and 5.5% higher than the control, respectively, while other four cultivars decreased by 6.7%-18.6%. Economically, all the cultivars except JP 121 had a higher income than the control, and the profitability of cultivars XH 95-13 and XH 95-13-6 reached 24.0% and 19.3%, respectively. The water productivity of all the six cultivars was over 0.566 kg x m(-3), increased by 59.89%-116.38%. Pot experiment showed that 12.1%-16.3% of soil moisture in 0-15 cm layer was beneficial to the growth of upland rice. In eastern Keerqin sandy land, effective tillers occurred before July 18. In brief, upland rice production could be extensively applicable in eastern Keerqin sandy land to gradually alternate the traditional lowland rice cultivation with continuous flooding, and save much underground water.
15624829	The study showed that in northeast China, the farmlands with a mono-harvesting agricultural system had a low accumulation of soil inorganic nitrogen after harvest. In late autumn, there was an interval of about 20-30 days when the temperature and humidity were appropriate to soil N mineralization, but the mineralized nitrogen could not be used by crops in this non-growing season. The accumulation of inorganic nitrogen in upland soil reached a high level before freezing. Its inorganic nitrogen content in 1 m depth soil was 99.9 kg x hm(-2) in the treatment of commercial fertilizers (N 150 kg x hm(-2); P 16.4 kg x hm(-2); K 62.3 kg x hm(-2))and 145.4 kg x hm(-2) in the treatment of commercial fertilizers plus manure (pig manure by a reutilization of 80% product). While in rice field, its inorganic nitrogen content was relatively low before freezing. The reason might be that the soil permeability was not as good as that in upland for its long-term water-logging, and its insufficient aeration would be favorable to denitrification which induces the inorganic nitrogen loss via N2O emission.
15624834	The ecological and physiological water requirement of rice was studied in a paddy field of north China, and the field experiment was conducted at Shenyang Experimental Station of Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Under continuous flooding irrigation (CSF) and intermittent irrigation (IT) conditions, the evapotranspiration and soil evaporation of paddy fields were measured by non-weighing lysimeters and micro-lysimeters, respectively. The results showed that compared with continuous flooding irrigation, the transpiration under intermittent irrigation condition was not significantly reduced, but 16% and 24% of water amounts were reduced by decreasing the water losses through soil water evaporation and percolation, respectively. The water use efficiency of intermittent irrigation was increased 10%, without any adverse effects on biomass and grain yield of rice. Although the amount of water requirement under IT treatment was reduced significantly compared with CSF treatment, about 60% of total water requirement was still lost through deep percolation. Based on the results obtained, the corresponding countermeasures to reduce the amounts of soil water evaporation and percolation and to increase the water use efficiency were put forward in this paper.
15624836	This paper studied the effect of water managements on the abundance, trophic groups and community composition of soil nematodes in a paddy field in the Lower Reaches of Liaohe Plain at the depths of 0-10 cm, 10-20 cm and 20-30 cm during rice (Oryza sativa L.) growth season. The total number of nematodes at 0-10 cm soil depth was lower in percolation-controlling treatments than in control during pre-tillage and yellow ripeness stage. No significant difference was found in the total number of nematodes at 10-20 cm soil depth during the study period, but significant difference was observed in 20-30 cm soil depth during pre-tillage and yellow ripeness stage. Sixteen families and 22 genera were observed, and Plectus, Tylenchus and Monhystera were the dominant genera. Plectus and Tylenchus were sensitive to different water managements. Significant difference was found in the number of bacterivores at 0-10 cm soil depth during pre-tillage and yellow ripeness stage in percolation-controlling treatments, which exhibited a similar trend with the total number of nematodes. Bacterivores and plant-parasites were the most abundant trophic groups in all plots and at all soil depths during the study period, averaging 60.8% and 33.8% of the nematode communities, respectively, and omnivores-predators were the least abundant groups.
15626331	Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) analysis has pioneered genome-wide gene discovery and expression profiling. In order to establish a gene expression index in the rice cultivar indica, we sequenced and analyzed 86,136 ESTs from nine rice cDNA libraries from the super hybrid cultivar LYP9 and its parental cultivars. We assembled these ESTs into 13,232 contigs and leave 8,976 singletons. Overall, 7,497 sequences were found similar to existing sequences in GenBank and 14,711 are novel. These sequences are classified by molecular function, biological process and pathways according to the Gene Ontology. We compared our sequenced ESTs with the publicly available 95,000 ESTs from japonica, and found little sequence variation, despite the large difference between genome sequences. We then assembled the combined 173,000 rice ESTs for further analysis. Using the pooled ESTs, we compared gene expression in metabolism pathway between rice and Arabidopsis according to KEGG. We further profiled gene expression patterns in different tissues, developmental stages, and in a conditional sterile mutant, after checking the libraries are comparable by means of sequence coverage. We also identified some possible library specific genes and a number of enzymes and transcription factors that contribute to rice development.
15626332	The large amount of repeats, especially high copy repeats, in the genomes of higher animals and plants makes whole genome assembly (WGA) quite difficult. In order to solve this problem, we tried to identify repeats and mask them prior to assembly even at the stage of genome survey. It is known that repeats of different copy number have different probabilities of appearance in shotgun data, so based on this principle, we constructed a statistical model and inferred criteria for mathematically defined repeats (MDRs) at different shotgun coverages. According to these criteria, we developed software MDRmasker to identify and mask MDRs in shotgun data. With repeats masked prior to assembly, the speed of assembly was increased with lower error probability. In addition, clone-insert size affect the accuracy of repeat assembly and scaffold construction, we also designed length distribution of clone-inserts using our model. In our simulated genomes of human and rice, the length distribution of repeats is different, so their optimal length distributions of clone-inserts were not the same. Thus with optimal length distribution of clone-inserts, a given genome could be assembled better at lower coverage.
15626376	Arsenic is a highly toxic element and its presence in food composites is a matter of concern to the well being of both humans and animals. Arsenic-contaminated groundwater is often used in Bangladesh and West Bengal (India) to irrigate crops used for food and animal consumption, which could potentially lead to arsenic entering the human food chain. In this study, we used graphite furnace atomic absorption spectroscopy to determine the total arsenic concentrations in a range of foodstuffs, including vegetables, rice and fish, imported into the United Kingdom from Bangladesh. The mean and range of the total arsenic concentration in all the vegetables imported from Bangladesh were 54.5 and 5-540 microg/kg, respectively. The highest arsenic values found were for the skin of Arum tuber, 540 microg/kg, followed by Arum Stem, 168 microg/kg, and Amaranthus, 160 microg/kg. Among the other samples, freshwater fish contained total arsenic levels between 97 and 1318 microg/kg. The arsenic content of the vegetables from the UK was approximately 2- to 3-fold lower than those observed for the vegetables imported from Bangladesh. The levels of arsenic found in vegetables imported from Bangladesh in this study, in some cases, are similar to those previously recorded for vegetables grown in arsenic-affected areas of West Bengal, India, although lower than the levels reported in studies from Bangladesh. While the total arsenic content detected in our study in vegetables, imported from Bangladesh, is far less than the recommended maximum permitted level of arsenic, it does provide an additional source of arsenic in the diet. This raises the possibility that the level of arsenic intake by certain sectors of the UK population may be significantly higher then the general population and requires further investigations.
15626679	Wild rice has adapted to weather and unfavorable environments under natural selection. It has been well recognized as a natural gene bank that conserves a lot of specific genes presently not available for extinct in the cultivated rice. There is an urgent need to explore these specific genes. The present paper summarized current researches in molecular mapping and cloning of useful genes from wild rice,and their potential application in breeding.
15627239	A series of 3-chloro-2-(4-chloro-2-fluorophenyl)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-2H-indazole derivatives containing various substituted isoxazolinylmethoxy groups at the 5-position of the benzene ring were synthesized and their herbicidal activities assessed under greenhouse and flooded paddy conditions. Among them, compounds having a phenyl or cyano substituent at the 3-position of the 5-methyl-isoxazolin-5-yl structure demonstrated good rice selectivity and potent herbicidal activity against annual weeds at 16-63 g AI ha(-1) under greenhouse conditions. Field trials indicated that these two compounds controlled a wide range of annual weeds rapidly with a good tolerance on transplanted rice seedlings by pre-emergence application. They showed a low mammalian and environmental toxicity in various toxicological tests.
15627242	Imidazolinone herbicides, which include imazapyr, imazapic, imazethapyr, imazamox, imazamethabenz and imazaquin, control weeds by inhibiting the enzyme acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS), also called acetolactate synthase (ALS). AHAS is a critical enzyme for the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids in plants. Several variant AHAS genes conferring imidazolinone tolerance were discovered in plants through mutagenesis and selection, and were used to create imidazolinone-tolerant maize (Zea mays L), wheat (Triticum aestivum L), rice (Oryza sativa L), oilseed rape (Brassica napus L) and sunflower (Helianthus annuus L). These crops were developed using conventional breeding methods and commercialized as Clearfield* crops from 1992 to the present. Imidazolinone herbicides control a broad spectrum of grass and broadleaf weeds in imidazolinone-tolerant crops, including weeds that are closely related to the crop itself and some key parasitic weeds. Imidazolinone-tolerant crops may also prevent rotational crop injury and injury caused by interaction between AHAS-inhibiting herbicides and insecticides. A single target-site mutation in the AHAS gene may confer tolerance to AHAS-inhibiting herbicides, so that it is technically possible to develop the imidazolinone-tolerance trait in many crops. Activities are currently directed toward the continued improvement of imidazolinone tolerance and development of new Clearfield* crops. Management of herbicide-resistant weeds and gene flow from crops to weeds are issues that must be considered with the development of any herbicide-resistant crop. Thus extensive stewardship programs have been developed to address these issues for Clearfield* crops.
15627564	Composts were produced from rice straw enriched with rock phosphate and inoculated with Aspergillus niger, Trichoderma viride and/or farmyard manure (FYM). The resulting composts were evaluated as organic phosphate fertilizers for cowpea plants in pot experiments. The results showed that the maximum amount of soluble phosphorous (1000 ppm) was produced in composts inoculated with A. niger+T. viride with or without FYM. Any of the produced composts was much better than superphosphate fertilizer in providing the growing cowpea plants with phosphorous. Fertilization of the cowpea plants with the compost inoculated with FYM+A. niger+T. viride resulted in maximum amount of phosphorous uptake (295 ppm). The highest phosphate dissolving fungi numbers in rhizosphere soils of cowpea plants were obtained after fertilization with composts which received A. niger and T. viride treatments, while the highest phosphate dissolving bacterial numbers were found after fertilization with composts which received FYM treatments.
15627707	Gama-glutamylcysteine synthetase (GCS) is a rate-limiting enzyme in GSH biosynthesis. The GCS gene has been cloned in Arabidopsis thaliana and other plants, but has still not been reported in rice. From rice mutant population generated from T-DNA insertion, we cloned the rice GCS gene from mutant L395 by T-DNA tag cloning method, and named it OsGCS (Genbank accession No. AJ508915). Full length OsGCS cDNA clones were obtained from a rice cDNA library by the PCR method. A comparison of the genome and cDNA sequence (Genbank accession No. AJ508916) shows that OsGCS gene is composed of 15 exons and 14 introns and coding a 493-amino acid protein. The OsGCS gene is highly homologous with the AtGCS gene in the coding region but completely different in the promoter region. The putative transcription start site (TSS) confirmed by RT-PCR was located 211 bp upstream of the translation start codon "ATG". In mutant L395, a single T-DNA copy was integrated between the second intron and second exon of OsGCS gene, causing one nucleotide deletion in the second exon and two nucleotide deletions in the second intron. No significant differences were found in Cd(2+) stress tolerance, rice GCS gene expression level and GSH content between mutant L395 and Zhonghua 11. It is possible that another GCS gene on chromosome 7 might complement function of OsGCS gene on chromosome 5.
15627959	In classical proteomic studies, the searches in protein databases lead mostly to the identification of protein functions by homology due to the non-exhaustiveness of the protein databases. The quality of the identification depends on the studied organism, its complexity and its representation in the protein databases. Nevertheless, this basic function identification is insufficient for certain applications namely for the development of RNA-based gene-silencing strategies, commonly termed RNA interference (RNAi) in animals and post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) in plants, that require an unambiguous identification of the targeted gene sequence. A PTGS strategy was considered in the study of the infection of Oryza sativa by the Rice Yellow Mottle Virus (RYMV). It is suspected that the RYMV recruits host proteins after its entry into plant cells to form a complex facilitating virus multiplication and spreading. The protein partners of this complex were identified by a classical proteomic approach, nano liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Among the identified proteins, several were retained for a PTGS strategy. Nevertheless most of the protein candidates appear to be members of multigenic families for which all paralog genes are not present in protein databases. Thus the identification of the real expressed paralog gene with classical protein database searches is impossible. Consequently, as the genome contains all genes and thus all paralog genes, a whole genome search strategy was developed to determine the specific expressed paralog gene. With this approach, the identification of peptides matching only a single gene, called discriminant peptides, allows definitive proof of the expression of this identified gene. This strategy has several requirements: (i) a genome completely sequenced and accessible; (ii) high protein sequence coverage. In the present work, through three examples, we report and validate for the first time a genome database search strategy to specifically identify paralog genes belonging to multigenic families expressed under specific conditions.
15627974	The technique of proteome analysis using 2-DE has the power to monitor global changes that occur in the protein complement of tissues and subcellular compartments. In this review, we describe construction of the rice proteome database, the cataloging of rice proteins, and the functional characterization of some of the proteins identified. Initially, proteins extracted from various tissues and organelles were separated by 2-DE and an image analyzer was used to construct a display or reference map of the proteins. The rice proteome database currently contains 23 reference maps based on 2-DE of proteins from different rice tissues and subcellular compartments. These reference maps comprise 13 129 rice proteins, and the amino acid sequences of 5092 of these proteins are entered in the database. Major proteins involved in growth or stress responses have been identified by using a proteomics approach and some of these proteins have unique functions. Furthermore, initial work has also begun on analyzing the phosphoproteome and protein-protein interactions in rice. The information obtained from the rice proteome database will aid in the molecular cloning of rice genes and in predicting the function of unknown proteins.
15629039	Genomic research has made a large number of sequences of novel genes or expressed sequence tags available. To investigate functions of these genes, a system for conditional control of gene expression would be a useful tool. Inducible transgene expression that uses green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) as a reporter gene has been investigated in transgenic cell lines of cotton (COT; Gossypium hirsutum L.), Fraser fir [FRA; Abies fraseri (Pursh) Poir], Nordmann fir (NOR; Abies nordmanniana Lk.), and rice (RIC; Oryza sativa L. cv. Radon). Transgenic cell lines were used to test the function of the chemical inducer dexamethasone. Inducible transgene expression was observed with fluorescence and confocal microscopy, and was confirmed by northern blot analyses. Dexamethasone at 5 mg/L induced gfp expression to the nearly highest level 48 h after treatment in COT, FRA, NOR, and RIC. Dexamethasone at 10 mg/L inhibited the growth of transgenic cells in FRA and NOR, but not COT and RIC. These results demonstrated that concentrations of inducer for optimum inducible gene expression system varied among transgenic cell lines. The inducible gene expression system described here was very effective and could be valuable in evaluating the function of novel gene.
15629047	Brassinosteroid (BR) and gibberellin (GA) are two groups of plant growth regulators essential for normal plant growth and development. To gain insight into the molecular mechanism by which BR and GA regulate the growth and development of plants, especially the monocot plant rice, it is necessary to identify and analyze more genes and proteins that are regulated by them. With the availability of draft sequences of two major types, japonica and indica rice, it has become possible to analyze expression changes of genes and proteins at genome scale. In this review, we summarize rice functional genomic research by using microarray and proteomic approaches and our recent research results focusing on the comparison of cDNA microarray and proteomic analyses of BR- and GA-regulated gene and protein expression in rice. We believe our findings have important implications for understanding the mechanism by which BR and GA regulate the growth and development of rice.
15629049	Short interfering RNA (siRNA) is widely used for studying post-transcriptional gene silencing and holds great promise as a tool for both identifying function of novel genes and validating drug targets. Two siRNA fragments (siRNA-a and -b), which were designed against different specific areas of coding region of the same target green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene, were used to silence GFP expression in cultured gfp transgenic cells of rice (Oryza sativa L.; OS), cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.; GH), Fraser fir [Abies fraseri (Pursh) Poir; AF], and Virginia pine (Pinus virginiana Mill.; PV). Differential gene silencing was observed in the bombarded transgenic cells between two siRNAs, and these results were consistent with the inactivation of GFP confirmed by laser scanning microscopy, Northern blot, and siRNA analysis in tested transgenic cell cultures. These data suggest that siRNA-mediated gene inactivation can be the siRNA specific in different plant species. These results indicate that siRNA is a highly specific tool for targeted gene knockdown and for establishing siRNA-mediated gene silencing, which could be a reliable approach for large-scale screening of gene function and drug target validation.
15629062	WRKY proteins are newly identified transcription factors involved in many plant processes including plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. To date, genes encoding WRKY proteins have been identified only from plants. Comprehensive search for WRKY genes in non-plant organisms and phylogenetic analysis would provide invaluable information about the origin and expansion of the WRKY family. We searched all publicly available sequence data for WRKY genes. A single copy of the WRKY gene encoding two WRKY domains was identified from Giardia lamblia, a primitive eukaryote, Dictyostelium discoideum, a slime mold closely related to the lineage of animals and fungi, and the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, an early branching of plants. This ancestral WRKY gene seems to have duplicated many times during the evolution of plants, resulting in a large family in evolutionarily advanced flowering plants. In rice, the WRKY gene family consists of over 100 members. Analyses suggest that the C-terminal domain of the two-WRKY-domain encoding gene appears to be the ancestor of the single-WRKY-domain encoding genes, and that the WRKY domains may be phylogenetically classified into five groups. We propose a model to explain the WRKY family's origin in eukaryotes and expansion in plants. WRKY genes seem to have originated in early eukaryotes and greatly expanded in plants. The elucidation of the evolution and duplicative expansion of the WRKY genes should provide valuable information on their functions.
15629241	To accelerate the fecal excretion of polycyclic biphenyl (PCB), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), polychlorinated-p-dioxines (PCDDs) and various mutagens and carcinogens, their binding effect on rice bran fiber (RBF) was investigated for nine heterocyclic amines, six nitroarenes, 4-nitroquinoline-N-oxide, benzo[a]pyrene, furylfuramide, two kinds of flavonoid compounds and formaldehyde and ascorbic acid. PCBs, PCDFs and PCDDs suspended in nonane were incubated with RBF (10 mg/ml) at 37 degrees C and after centrifugation, unbound chemicals in the supernatant were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and gas chromatography (GC). The binding effects on RBF were enhanced more than other dietary fibers (DFs), which were tested including corn, wheat bran, spinach, Hijiki (a kind of seaweed), sweet potatoes and burdock fibers. It was found that the binding effects were related to lignin contents. Binding of 3-amino-1(or 1,4)-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-p-1 and Trp-p-2), food-derived carcinogens and 1-nitropyrene (1-NP), suspended in methanol, to RBF occurred within 10 min of incubation at 37 degrees C at pH 5-7, and decreased below pH 4; binding of food-derived carcinogens was pH dependent. The binding effects to RBF and pulp lignin were obtained at ratio of over 90%, while corn fiber and cellulose were at ratios of 4-30%. Polycyclic aromatic compounds were related to the number of rings, showing high binding effects to chemical structures with triple rings. Binding of 1-NP and PCB to RBF was not influenced in any aerobic and anaerobic bacterial cultures. It was also found that RBF was capable of binding even conjugates containing mutagens such as glucuronides and sulfates, as well as metabolites in urine. It was suggested, therefore, that mutagens and carcinogens were available for the fecal excretion of residual chemicals and their metabolites, and also for the fecal excretion of PCBs, PCDFs and related compound residues in patients of Yusho disease, who suffered food poisoning due to rice oil contaminated with PCB in Japan.
15629578	A new sorbent (raw rice bran) was investigated for heavy metal ions removal from aqueous solutions. Rice bran characterisation was carried out in order to identify the functional groups possibly involved in the metal binding. The binding process was studied in terms of binding capacity and metal affinity. The adsorption equilibrium was well described by the Freundlich isotherm model. The negative Gibbs free energy values obtained in this study with rice bran confirm the feasibility of the process and the spontaneous nature of sorption.
15629854	Lignocellulosic agricultural byproducts are a copious and cheap source for cellulose fibers. Agro-based biofibers have the composition, properties and structure that make them suitable for uses such as composite, textile, pulp and paper manufacture. In addition, biofibers can also be used to produce fuel, chemicals, enzymes and food. Byproducts produced from the cultivation of corn, wheat, rice, sorghum, barley, sugarcane, pineapple, banana and coconut are the major sources of agro-based biofibers. This review analyses the production processes, structure, properties and suitability of these biofibers for various industrial applications.
15630195	The preventive effect of Hydrolyzed Rice Bran against the common cold syndrome was examined in elderly people. Arabinoxylan derivatives of Hydrolyzed Rice Bran (HRB) were prepared from water-soluble rice bran through partial processing using a carbohydrate complex. Using the water-soluble Rice Bran (RB) as a control, a cross over double-blind study was conducted on both substances over a 6-week administration period. Fifty elderly people aged from 70 to 95 years participated in the study and the comparative data from 36 participants were analyzed. There were no withdrawals from in the study due to the side effects of the experimental foods. Symptoms were observed and scored. The total symptom score for the RB treatment group was three times higher than that for the HRB treatment group. The average duration of symptoms was 2.6 days for RB whereas it was only 1.2 days for HRB. Furthermore, some immunomodulatory action was observed in laboratory tests. HRB was shown to be useful in reducing the physical stress associated with acute respiratory tract infection.
15630260	Naturally fermented vinegar such as Kibizu (sugar cane vinegar in Amami Ohshima, Japan), Kurozu (black rice vinegar in Kagoshima, Japan), Kouzu (black rice vinegar in China) and red wine vinegar in Italy had potent radical-scavenging activity analyzed by DPPH method. For the elucidation of food factor for cancer prevention contained in naturally fermented vinegar, the induction of apoptosis in human leukemia cell HL-60 was investigated with sugar cane vinegar Kibizu. Fraction eluted by 40% methanol from Amberlite XAD 2 chromatography of sugar cane vinegar showed potent radical scavenging activity. The fraction also showed the activity repressing growth of typical human leukemia cells such as HL-60, THP-1, Molt-4, U-937, Jurkat, Raji and K-562. On the other hand, the fraction did not have any growth inhibition activity against human fetal lung cell TIG-1. The most potent radical-scavenging activity and the growth repression activity of the leukemia cell were observed in the same chromatographic fraction of methanol 40%. From cell sorting FACS analyses, electron microscopic observations and cytochemical staining of chromatin and nuclear segments in human leukemia cell HL-60 treated with the active fraction, it was concluded that apoptosis was induced in the leukemia cell by the fraction of sugar cane vinegar and resulted in the repression of growth of the human leukemia cells. Chromatographic fraction of sugar cane juice eluted by 20% methanol showed potent activities of radical-scavenging and growth repression of HL-60. These results led us the consideration that active components in sugar cane juice could be converted to more lipophilic compounds with activity to induce apoptosis in HL-60 by microbial fermentation with yeast and acetic acid bacteria.
15630262	Shochu is a Japanese spirit that is mainly produced in the Kyushu region. Rice-shochu post-distillation slurry (i.e. RSDS) is eluted during the conventional rice-shochu production process. Since RSDS contains several functional components, we have produced vinegar from RSDS. This study reports the antitumor activity of RSDS and the vinegar via oral administration in a mouse model. Freeze-dried RSDS (0.1 - 1.5%) or vinegar (0.3 - 1.5%) was mixed into a chemically defined diet. The tumor size and life span of tumor-bearing mice that were fed the diet were investigated for 72 d. The RSDS- (> 0.3%) or vinegar- (> 0.5%) fed mice had significantly smaller sized tumors than the control group (p < 0.01). We also found that those mice had prolonged life spans. Oral administration of RSDS or vinegar also prolonged the life spans of mice that were implanted with Colon 38 cells. These results indicated that dietary RSDS and vinegar suppressed tumor growth. Moreover, we found that NK cytotoxic activity against K562 cells was stimulated by RSDS and vinegar.
15630283	Lactobacillus kefiranofaciens was reported to produce an exopolysaccharide named kefiran. In the present study, we developed a new medium, rice hydrolyzate (RH) medium, for the culture of L. kefiranofaciens. Structural analyses revealed that the exopolysaccharide produced by L. kefiranofaciens from RH medium was composed of a hexasaccharide repeating unit, and essentially identical to the kefiran reported in previous studies. A study on the effects of kefiran in animals demonstrated that kefiran significantly suppressed increase of blood pressure and reduced the serum cholesterol levels in SHRSP/Hos rats when subjects consumed excessive dietary cholesterol. Kefiran supplementation demonstrated the ability to significantly lower blood glucose in KKAy mice. In addition, the administration of kefiran in constipated SD rats caused an obvious improvement in the levels of fecal moisture and wet weights of feces. These results suggest that kefiran could be used as a functional food to prevent some commonly occurring diseases.
15630619	Pest and disease problems are important constraints of cassava production and host plant resistance is the most efficient method of combating them. Breeding for host plant resistance is considerably slowed down by the crop's biological constraints of a long growth cycle, high levels of heterozygosity and a large genetic load. More efficient methods such as gene cloning and transgenesis are required to deploy resistance genes. To facilitate the cloning of resistance genes, bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library resources have been developed for cassava. Two libraries were constructed from the cassava clones, TMS 30001, resistant to the cassava mosaic disease (CMD) and the cassava bacterial blight (CBB), and MECU72, resistant to cassava white fly. The TMS30001 library has 55, 296 clones with an insert size range of 40-150 kb with an average of 80 kb, while the MECU72 library consists of 92 160 clones and an insert size range of 25-250 kb average of 93 kb. Based on a genome size of 772 Mb, the TMS30001 and MECU72 libraries have a 5 and 11.3 haploid genome equivalents and a 95 and 99 chance of finding any sequence, respectively. To demonstrate the potential of the libraries, the TMS30001 library was screened by southern hybridization using a cassava analog (CBB1) of the Xa21 gene from rice that maps to a region containing a QTL for resistance to CBB as probe. Five BAC clones that hybridized to CBB1 were isolated and a Hind III fingerprint revealed 2-3 copies of the gene in individual BAC clones. A larger scale analysis of resistance gene analogs (RGAs) in cassava has also been conducted in order to understand the number and organization of RGAs. To scan for gene and repeat DNA content in the libraries, end-sequencing was performed on 2,301 clones from the MECU72 library. A total of 1705 unique sequences were obtained with an average size of 715 bp. Database homology searches using BLAST revealed that 458 sequences had significant homology with known proteins and 321 with transposable elements. The use of the library in positional cloning of pest and disease resistance genes is discussed.
15633033	Ensuring food security has been one of the major national priorities of Bangladesh since its independence in 1971. Now, this national priority is facing new challenges from the possible impacts of climate change in addition to the already existing threats from rapid population growth, declining availability of cultivable land, and inadequate access to water in the dry season. In this backdrop, this paper has examined the nature and magnitude of these threats for the benchmark years of 2030 and 2050. It has been shown that the overall impact of climate change on the production of food grains in Bangladesh would probably be small in 2030. This is due to the strong positive impact of CO2 fertilization that would compensate for the negative impacts of higher temperature and sea level rise. In 2050, the negative impacts of climate change might become noticeable: production of rice and wheat might drop by 8% and 32%, respectively. However, rice would be less affected by climate change compared to wheat, which is more sensitive to a change in temperature. Based on the population projections and analysis of future agronomic innovations, this study further shows that the availability of cultivable land alone would not be a constraint for achieving food self-sufficiency, provided that the productivity of rice and wheat grows at a rate of 10% or more per decade. However, the situation would be more critical in terms of water availability. If the dry season water availability does not decline from the 1990 level of about 100 Bm3, there would be just enough water in 2030 for meeting both the agricultural and nonagricultural needs. In 2050, the demand for irrigation water to maintain food self-sufficiency would be about 40% to 50% of the dry season water availability. Meeting such a high agricultural water demand might cause significant negative impacts on the domestic and commercial water supply, fisheries, ecosystems, navigation, and salinity management.
15633191	The enzyme p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD) catalyzes the formation of homogentisic acid, the aromatic precursor of plastoquinone and vitamin E. HPPD is the specific target of several herbicide families: isoxazoles, triketones and pyroxazoles. Its inhibition results in the depletion of the plant plastoquinone and vitamin E pools, leading to bleaching symptoms. These herbicides are very potent for the selective pre- and in some cases post-emergence control of a wide range of broadleaf and grass weeds in maize and rice. Their herbicidal potential raised interest in the development of highly resistant transgenic crops. This goal was first achieved by over-expression of a bacterial HPPD in crop plants, and an increased level of resistance was obtained by using a mutant enzyme. A second strategy based on bypassing HPPD in the production of homogentisate was then developed. Recently, a third strategy of resistance based on the increase of p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate substrate flux has been developed. This was achieved by the introduction of the yeast prephenate dehydrogenase gene (PDH) into transgenic plants already overexpressing HPPD. In addition to a high level of herbicide resistance, a massive accumulation of vitamin E, mainly tocotrienols, was observed in leaves of the transgenic HPPD-PDH plants.
15633242	An ancient genome duplication (PPP1) that predates divergence of the cereals has recently been recognized. We report here another potentially older large-scale duplication (PPP2) event that predates monocot-dicot divergence in the genome of rice (Oryza sativa L.), as inferred from the age distribution of pairs of duplicate genes based on recent genome data for rice. Our results suggest that paleopolyploidy was widespread and played an important role in the evolution of rice.
15633252	The ecosystem characteristics of soil microorganism and the nutrient uptake of irrigated rice were investigated in a split-block experiment with different fertilization treatments, including control (no fertilizer application), PK, NK, NP, NPK fertilization, in the main block, and conventional rice and hybrid rice comparison, in the sub block. Average data of five treatments in five years indicated that the indigenous N supply (INS) capacity ranged from 32.72 to 93.21 kg/ha; that indigenous P supply (IPS) capacity ranged from 7.42 to 32.25 kg/ha; and that indigenous K supply (IKS) capacity ranged from 16.24 to 140.51 kg/ha, which showed that soil available nutrient pool depletion might occur very fast and that P, K deficiency has become a constraint to increasing yields of consecutive crops grown without fertilizer application. It was found that soil nutrient deficiency and unbalanced fertilization to rice crop had negative effect on the diversity of the microbial community and total microbial biomass in the soil. The long-term fertilizer experiment (LTFE) also showed that balanced application of N, P and K promoted microbial biomass growth and improvement of community composition. Unbalanced fertilization reduced microbial N and increased C/N ratio of the microbial biomass. Compared with inbred rice, hybrid rice behavior is characterized by physiological advantage in nutrient uptake and lower internal K use efficiency.
15633411	Clinical evaluation of a standard vacuum delivery device and "hand-pump" vacuum delivery device. Retrospective clinical study. Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, City Hospital, Litomĕrice. In the period between January 1993 and the end of December 2003 there were 81 deliveries by vacuum at our department, 55 of which (67.90%) were with standard vacuum delivery device and 26 (32.10%) with "hand-pump" vacuum delivery device. We evaluated the differences in the following parameters: 1. basic characteristics--maternal age, parity, gestational age, birth weight and type of labor, 2. early maternal morbidity--the presence of episiotomy, perineal and vaginal tears, blood loss, the need of blood transfusion, duration of hospitalization and postpartum incontinentia urinae and alvi, 3. early neonatal morbidity--pH a. umbilicalis, Apgar score and the presence of newborn's trauma. The differences found in individual groups were then used for statistics and evaluated. In comparison with standard vacuum delivery device the usage of "hand-pump" vacuum delivery device appears to be more convenient for its significantly higher reliability, especially due to construction and also for its favourable features at early neonatal morbidity. We have proved that the "hand-pump" vacuum delivery device is in comparison with standard vacuum delivery device more favourable with newborns and more convenient to use for its high reliability.
15633644	Rice calli derived from anther culture were used as recipient to transfer a rice blight resistance gene, Xa21, into a japonica rice variety, Taipei 309, via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Seven green transgenic plants, including one mixoploid, two haploid, and four diploid plants, were regenerated. PCR, Southern blot, FISH and blight resistance analysis all indicated that Xa21 gene has been integrated into the T0 plant genomes. T1 generations of the four diploid T0 plants were further investigated for resistance segregation. Chi2 test showed that two T1 populations segregated with a ratio of 3:1, indicating that a single copy of Xa21 gene was integrated into the genome, whereas the segregation ratios of the other two T1 populations were non-Mendelian. Therefore, the four diploid transgenic plants should be heterozygous diploids.
15633645	By using the matured embryos of Japonica rice variety Zhonghua No. 11 as explants, rice transformation was performed by Agrobacterium-mediated co-cultivation method, resulting in 1489 independent transgenic rice plants that carry a T-DNA insertion. Genomic DNA gel-blot and PCR analyses showed that 69.8% of the total lines contain the inserted T-DNA. The flanking sequence of T-DNA in transgenic rice plants was analyzed using Tail-PCR. In addition, we have evaluated 1066 T1 transgenic lines on heading days, plant height and panicles per hill, and found different types of mutants from a number of lines.
15633646	The quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for 21 traits of agronomy importance on ten substituted chromosomal segments were identified using single segment substitution lines (SSSLs) in rice, which were developed by the use of Taichung 65 as a recipient and zhai-ye-qing and dee-geo-woo-gen as donors respectively. Total length of the substituted segments in the SSSLs was 230.00 cM, which was 12.62% of rice genome. T-test was used to detect QTLs in the condition that the difference in phenotypes between a SSSL and the recipient parent (Taichung 65) was significant at the 0.1% level (P< or = 0.001). A total of 57 QTLs for 17 traits had been detected on the ten substituted segments, which were on chromosomes 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 10 and 12 respectively. The additive effect percentages of the QTLs ranged from 1.10% to 89.73%. Among of 57 QTLs, fifteen QTLs had the additive effect percentage over 10%, thirty QTLs varied from 3% to 10% and other twelve QTLs were below 3%.
15633647	The objective of this study was to assess syntenic relationships of quantitative trait loci (QTL) for important agronomic traits between maize and rice based on the comparative genomic map of maize and rice using two F(2:3) populations. Through the comparisons, it was observed that there were extensive conserved relationships of maize QTL affected plant height, row number, and kernels per row with rice QTL affected plant height, tillers per plant, and grains per panicle respectively. Sixteen of 45 QTL affecting five different maize traits were conserved compared with 12 of 38 QTL affecting five different rice traits, which provided some useful information for locating, isolating and cloning maize QTL by using the rice genomic data. In this study, one QTL in rice usually had two conserved QTL in maize, further supporting the hypothesis that there is a polyploidization event during maize evolution. It was interested in observing that there were QTL rich regions on chromosomes in maize and rice, where QTL affecting different traits were usually clustered. These results revealed that the QTL affected the same or similar traits in maize and rice may have the common origin. These results will be helpful to map, isolate and clone QTL in large genome crops, such as maize, by using rice genome information, as well as to understand the evolutionary forces that structured the organization of the grass genomes.
15636361	This paper presents a detailed investigation of the cytological and cytochemical events in rice cells infected by Magnaporthe grisea during the early stages of disease development. It was demonstrated that the spatial and temporal development of cytoplasmic aggregation, host cell autofluorescence, callose deposition and phospholipase D (PLD) accumulation were some of the earliest responses of host cells to M. grisea attacking and showed different patterns between the compatible and incompatible interaction. In the cv. IR64 and strain BN111 interaction (resistant), the earliest cellular response observed in the inner epidermis of rice leaf sheath was aggregation of the cytoplasm. Then, the attacked host cells turned brown and the cell cytoplasm collapsed (HR). In the moderately resistant reactions of cv. IR64 to strain PO66, the granule formation was delayed, and no apposition was observed in host cells. In the compatible reactions of cv. IR64 to strain Ca89, no visible cellular response was detected until 40 h after inoculation. As to auto-fluorescence of host cells, some penetration sites showed faint fluorescence under blue light as early as 12 h after inoculation in the cv. IR64-strain BN111 interaction. As the disease developed, the percentage of attacked epidermal cells showing autofluorescence increased quickly from 20 to 24 h after inoculation and the penetrated host cells showed strong autofluorescence. In the moderately resistant interaction, autofluorescence had been detected until 24 h after inoculation. In the compatible interaction, little autofluorescent cell was detected during the disease development. Patterns of callose deposition and phospholipase Dgamma (PLDgamma) showed the similar dynamic characteristics as did the phenolic compounds.
15638245	All fruits, vegetables, and grains contain phytosterols. Numerous clinical studies have documented that phytosterols lower LDL-cholesterol levels and thereby reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. Most experts believe that the cholesterol-lowering mechanism of phytosterols requires that they be in their "free" form. In addition to their occurrence in the free form, phytosterols also occur as four common phytosterol conjugates: (i) fatty acyl esters, (ii) hydroxycinnamate esters, (iii) steryl glycosides, and (iv) fatty acylated steryl glycosides. This study was undertaken to investigate the extent of hydrolysis of four common phytosterol conjugates by mammalian digestive enzymes (cholesterol esterase and pancreatin, a mixture of pancreatic enzymes) and for comparison purposes, by KOH. Two types of purified hydroxycinnamate esters (sitostanyl ferulate and oryzanol, a mixture of hydroxycinnamate esters purified from rice bran oil) were hydrolyzed by cholesterol esterase and by pancreatin. Both cholesterol esterase and pancreatin hydrolyzed the phytosteryl esters in two functional food matrices, and they hydrolyzed the hydroxycinnamate esters in corn fiber oil. This is the first report to demonstrate that phytostanyl ferulate esters (which are present at levels of 3-6% in corn fiber oil) are hydrolyzed by pancreatic cholesterol esterase. It is also the first report that pancreatin contains enzymes that hydrolyze the fatty acyl moiety of fatty acylated steryl glycoside, converting it to steryl glycoside. Pancreatin had no effect on steryl glycosides. The ability of pancreatin to hydrolyze three other types of lipid conjugates was also evaluated. Phospholipids were completely hydrolyzed. About half of the galactolipids were hydrolyzed, and less than 10% of the polyamine conjugates were hydrolyzed. The extents of hydrolysis of phytosteryl esters by base (saponification) were also studied, and conditions commonly used for the saponification of acyl lipids (1.5 N methanolic KOH, 30 min at 70 degrees C), were found to result in a nearly 100% hydrolysis of TAG but only about 35-45% hydrolysis of the phytosteryl fatty acyl esters or phytosteryl hydroxycinnamate esters.
15639244	Two mechanisms are recognized for polysaccharide chain elongation: (a) the nonreducing-end, primer-dependent mechanism and (b) the reducing-end, two-site insertion mechanism. We recently demonstrated the latter mechanism for starch biosynthesis by pulsing starch granules with ADP-[14C]Glc and chasing with ADPGlc for eight varieties of starch granules. Others have reported the addition of glucose from ADPGlc to the nonreducing ends of maltose, maltotriose, and maltopentaose and a branched maltopentasaccharide. It was concluded that starch chains are biosynthesized by the addition of glucose to the nonreducing ends of maltodextrin primers. In this study, we reinvestigated the maltodextrin reactions by reacting three kinds of starch granules from maize, wheat, and rice with ADP-[14C]Glc in the absence and presence of maltose (G2), maltotriose (G3), and maltodextrin (d.p.12) and found that they inhibited starch biosynthesis rather than stimulating it, as would be expected for primers. The major product in the presence of G2 was G3 with decreasing amounts of G4-G9 and the major products in the presence of G3 was G4 and G5, with decreasing amounts of G6-G9. It was concluded that maltodextrins are acceptors rather than primers. This was confirmed by pulsing the starch granules with ADP-[14C]Glc and chasing with G2, G3, and G6, which gave release of 14C-label from the pulsed granules in the absence of ADPGlc, further demonstrating that maltodextrins are acceptors that inhibit starch biosynthesis by releasing glucose from starch synthase, rather than acting as primers and stimulating biosynthesis.
15639818	The seeds of transgenic rice line D2-1-2 and the receptor cultivar Zhonghua No.9 were germinated on the stress condition of the antibiotic G418. The number of taking root seed, the length of root and the length of shoot of two used materials were checked in different concentrations of the antibiotic G418, but the ratio of germinating seed was not affected. At the 100 mg/L level of G418, the transgenic line D2-1-2 could take longer root (mean 1.45 cm) but Zhonghua No.9 very short (mean 0.27 cm). 88.46% of the total long-root (<0.5 cm) seeds selected from the mixing population of D2-1-2 and Zhonghua No.9 at the 100 mg/L level of antibiotic G418 were real transgenic ones.
15639856	A novel and simple CTAB-LiCl-based extraction method for high-quality and total RNA of rice embryo samples is developed. This method can efficiently eliminate the interference of polysaccharide and lipids rich in rice (Oryza sativa L.) embryo obtained under room temperature without using liquid nitrogen. The results of ultraviolet spectrophotometer and agarose gel electrophoresis analysis show that the obtained RNA has no obvious degradation and a good purity sufficient for further RT-PCR and RNA gel blotting. Therefore, it is also especially useful for the RNA extraction of plant material plenty of polysaccharide and lipids.
15639876	Some selected available sequences of reporter genes,resistant genes, promoters and terminators are amplified by PCR for the probes of transgenic crop detection gene chip. These probes are arrayed at definite density and printed on the surface of amino-slides by bioRobot MicroGrid II. Results showed that gene chip worked quickly and correctly, when transgenic rice, pawpaw,maize and soybean were applied.
15639890	As an important nitrogen source of human being. The composition, structure and synthesis of rice storage protein were concerned by scientists. Now people know a lot about the structure ,expression patterns of rice glutelin genes. On the basis of these knowledge, we may improve the quality of rice grain and use it to produce foreign proteins. In this paper we summarize the knowledge about rice storage proteins that we have got in these years.
15639930	A doubled haploid population (DH) consisting of 86 lines derived by anther culture of Peiai64s/E32, a two-line hybrid rice variety with high heterosis, was used to construct a microsatellite or SSLP linkage map of rice chromosomes. A total of 302 PCR primers for SSLP analysis on these chromosomes were chosen from a map published by Cornell University (designated CUMAP) and 127 (42.05%) of them were found polymorphic between the two parents. Those polymorphic PCR primers were used for population genotyping. The map (designated PEMAP) comprises 122 microsatellite maker loci,covering a total length of 1213.4 cM. The PEMAP is highly comparable with the CUMAP. Most of the markers were mapped onto the same chromosomes and aligned in the same order. Serious segregation distortion was observed in this DH population,with 34 (27.8%) markers showing significant deviation. It is noted that all markers on chromosomes 1,3,10 and 11 were biased to Peiai64s, while those on chromosomes 4,6,7,8 and 9 were opposite.
15639961	A repeated sequence with a length of 560 bp, termed as DH17, was obtained during PCR amplification of rice NBS-LRR homologues. A repeated unit of 352 bp in the DH17 fragment was revealed through sequence analysis and comparison, which has a high homology with the known sequences of OS48 and TrsA, and belongs to the same repeat family. Southern hybridization displayed that there are higher DH17 copies in the genome of an indica variety, ZYQ8,than that in the genome of japonica variety, JX17. The tandom repeated DH17 sequence was mapped on the long arm end of chromosome 12 through RFLP analysis of a double haploid population derived from ZYQ8 and JX17 using DH17 as a probe.
15639962	In this paper we chose 50 rice inflorescence genes from Internet,references. Rice oligonucleotide microarray was prepared by printing the target rice inflorescence genes oligonucleotide. Expression patterns of 50 genes from rice inflorescence in three different development phase were obtained by scanning using ScanArray3000 after array hybridization. The scatter plots and scale maps of the images were acquired after the acquired gene expression patterns were analyzed by ImaGene4.0 software. The scatter plots and scale maps show that there existed a significant difference in the expression of these candidate genes in rice inflorescences with different development phase. Further analysis of those candidate gene expression patterns will be helpful to understand the developmental mechanism of rice inflorescence.
15639965	The solution of alkali-treated fresh rice leaves was used directly as the templates of PCR. The amplified results were stable, reliable, and had no difference compared with that amplified with rice total DNA extracted by common method. The stable results can still be obtained based on the templates kept at 25 degrees for tow weeks, at 4 degrees for three weeks, at -20 degrees for over four months. With this technique, less material and only common reagent are required, which is especially adapted to the screening of the precious transgenic rice in advance and large-scale PCR tests.
15639984	Using the cDNA of rye cytoplasmic ribosomal protein ScRPS7 as a query probe, a highly homologous rice genomic contig was obtained from Huada rice genome database. The full-length cDNA sequence of rice cytoplasmic ribosomal protein S7 was assembled by informatics based on the contig. Furthermore, with the two primers designed according to this assembled cDNA, the full-length cDNA of rice ribosomal protein was cloned by RT-PCR and named as OsRPS7. The cDNA was 919bp in length and contained a complete Open Reading Frame (ORF) of 576bp, encoding a protein of 192 amino acid residues. The deduced amino acids of OsRPS7 showed 88%,72% and 72% identity with those from Secale cereale, Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica oleracea, respectively. The genome structure of OsRPS7 was analyzed, and its function was predicted in this paper.
