10022841	The rice homeobox gene OSH15 (Oryza sativa homeobox) is a member of the knotted1-type homeobox gene family. We report here on the identification and characterization of a loss-of-function mutation in OSH15 from a library of retrotransposon-tagged lines of rice. Based on the phenotype and map position, we have identified three independent deletion alleles of the locus among conventional morphological mutants. All of these recessive mutations, which are considered to be null alleles, exhibit defects in internode elongation. Introduction of a 14 kbp genomic DNA fragment that includes all exons, introns and 5'- and 3'- flanking sequences of OSH15 complemented the defects in internode elongation, confirming that they were caused by the loss-of-function of OSH15. Internodes of the mutants had abnormal-shaped epidermal and hypodermal cells and showed an unusual arrangement of small vascular bundles. These mutations demonstrate a role for OSH15 in the development of rice internodes. This is the first evidence that the knotted1-type homeobox genes have roles other than shoot apical meristem formation and/or maintenance in plant development.
10080707	An anther-specific cDNA clone of rice, RA8, was isolated from an anther cDNA library by differential screening. RNA blot analysis indicated that the RA8 transcript is present specifically in anthers and the transcript level increased as flowers matured, reaching the highest level in mature flowers. The RA8 clone contains an open reading frame of 264 amino acid residues with a hydrophobic N-terminal region. The deduced amino acid sequences did not show significant homology to any known sequences. Genomic DNA blot analysis showed that RA8 is a single-copy gene. A genomic clone corresponding to the RA8 cDNA was isolated and its promoter region was fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. Transgenic rice plants exhibited anther-specific expression of the GUS reporter gene. Histochemical GUS analysis showed that the RA8 promoter was active in the tapetum, endothecium, and connective tissues of anthers. Experiments showed that expression of the gene starts when microspores are released from tetrads, and it reaches to the maximum level at the late vacuolated-pollen stage. The RA8 promoter may be useful for controlling gene expression in anthers of cereal plants and for generating male-sterile plants.
10363369	The DNA-binding proteins PF1 and GT-2 are factors that bind to different functionally defined, positively acting cis-elements in the PHYA genes of oat and rice, respectively. PF1 is an HMG-I/Y protein, with its cognate cis-element being an AT-rich sequence, designated PE1, whereas GT-2 is a transcriptional activator with twin DNA binding domains that recognize a triplet of GT-boxes in a complex motif designated GTE. To further define the DNA-binding activity of PF1 and to explore potential inter-relationships between the two factors, we have performed a series of in vitro DNA-binding experiments with both PE1 and GTE target sites. The data show that, consistent with its membership of the HMG-I/Y protein family, PF1 can bend DNA when bound to PE1. In addition, PF1 can bind promiscuously, with varying affinity, to other AT-containing motifs, including GTE. When co-incubated with GT-2, PF1 enhances the specific DNA-binding activity of GT-2 toward GTE, the first report of such activity for a plant HMG-I/Y protein. This enhancement takes place without demonstrable physical contact between the two proteins, suggesting the possibility of a novel, indirect mechanism of recruitment involving DNA target-site pre-conditioning. The evidence indicates therefore that PF1 and GT-2 do not perform functionally equivalent roles in positively regulating oat and rice PHYA gene expression. However, the data suggest the possibility that PF1 may act as an architectural factor, promiscuously recognizing a spectrum of AT-containing elements in plant promoters, with the general function of catalyzing enhanced binding of conventional cognate transcriptional regulators to these elements via DNA bending.
10417726	Rice blast, caused by the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, is one of the most serious diseases of rice. Here we describe the isolation and characterization of Pib, one of the rice blast resistance genes. The Pib gene was isolated by a map-based cloning strategy. The deduced amino acid sequence of the Pib gene product contains a nucleotide binding site (NBS) and leucine-rich repeats (LRRs); thus, Pib is a member of the NBS-LRR class of plant disease resistance genes. Interestingly, a duplication of the kinase 1a, 2 and 3a motifs of the NBS region was found in the N-terminal half of the Pib protein. In addition, eight cysteine residues are clustered in the middle of the LRRs, a feature which has not been reported for other R genes. Pib gene expression was induced upon altered environmental conditions, such as altered temperatures and darkness.
10487219	Probenazole (3-allyloxy-1,2-benzisothiazole-1,1-dioxide) is an agricultural chemical primarily used to prevent rice blast disease. Probenazole-treated rice acquires resistance to blast fungus irrespective of the rice variety. The chemical is applied prophylactically, and is thought to induce or bolster endogenous plant defenses. However, the mechanisms underlying this effect have not been established. To understand the mode of the chemical's action, we screened for novel probenazole-responsive genes in rice by means of differential display and identified a candidate gene, RPR1. RPR1 contains a nucleotide binding site and leucine-rich repeats, thus sharing structural similarity with known disease resistance genes. The expression of RPR1 in rice can be up-regulated by treatment with chemical inducers of systemic acquired resistance (SAR) and by inoculation with pathogens. RPR1-related sequences in rice varieties seem to be varied in sequence and/or expression, indicating that RPR1 itself is not a crucial factor for induced resistance in rice. However, Southern blot analysis revealed the existence of homologous sequences in all varieties examined. While the role of RPR1 has yet to be clarified, this is the first report of the identification of a member of this gene class and its induction during the systemic expression of induced disease resistance.
10520450	A type 2 rice metallothionein-like gene was isolated from root by PCR and sequenced. The PCR fragment was designated as pcr1460, which overlaps with OsMT-2, a cDNA sequence previously characterized, with the presence of two additional segments, 583 and 613 bp in length. These segments are recognized as introns which divide the coding sequence into three exons, 65, 78 and 106 base pairs in length. The sequences flanking the introns conform with the GT/AG rule for splice junctions, and one exonic open reading frame can be identified in each of the introns. The observation that MT-like gene has two introns is the first of such a finding obtained from monocotyledonous plants.
10527423	Membrane intrinsic proteins facilitate movement of small molecules often times functioning as water channels. We have identified two genes from rice which encode proteins with characteristic features of plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIP). They possess six membrane-spanning domains, an NPA repeat, overall high sequence homologies and characteristic C- and N-terminal hallmark motifs which allowed assignment of OsPIP1a to the PIP1 subfamily and of OsPIP2a to the PIP2 subfamily. OsPIP1a and OsPIP2a showed similar but not identical expression patterns. The two genes were expressed at higher levels in seedlings than in adult plants and expression in the primary root was regulated by light. In internodes of deepwater rice plants which were induced to grow rapidly by submergence, transcript levels were slightly induced in the intercalary meristem (IM) and slightly reduced in the elongation zone (EZ) after 18 h. In internodes of GA-induced excised stem sections transcript levels transiently declined in the IM and EZ after 1 h and subsequently recovered to elevated levels after 18 h. GA also induced OsPIP expression in non-growing tissue after 18 h. In the IM of submergence-induced stem sections transcript levels remained constitutive. The different growth-promoting treatments showed no direct correlation between growth rate and OsPIP gene expression in dividing or expanding cells. In fact, treatment of excised stem sections with ABA or drought stress induced similar changes in OsPIP expression in the growing zone during the first 6 h as GA did. We conclude that regulation of OsPIP1a and OsPIP2a expression is not primarily controlled by growth. GA-induced growth may however change the water status of cells which in turn results in altered PIP abundance.
10557360	Phytosulfokine-alpha [PSK-alpha, Tyr(SO(3)H)-Ile-Tyr(SO(3)H)-Thr-Gln], a sulfated mitogenic peptide found in plants, strongly promotes proliferation of plant cells in culture at very low concentrations. Oryza sativa PSK (OsPSK) cDNA encoding a PSK-alpha precursor has been isolated. The cDNA is 725 base pairs long, and the 89-aa product, preprophytosulfokine, has a 22-aa hydrophobic region that resembles a cleavable leader peptide at its NH(2) terminus. The PSK-alpha sequence occurs only once within the precursor, close to the COOH terminus. [Ser(4)]PSK-alpha was secreted by transgenic rice Oc cells harboring a mutated OsPSK cDNA, suggesting proteolytic processing from the larger precursor, a feature commonly found in animal systems. Whereas PSK-alpha in conditioned medium with sense transgenic Oc cells was 1.6 times as concentrated as in the control case, antisense transgenic Oc cells produced less than 60% of the control level. Preprophytosulfokine mRNA was detected at an elevated constitutive level in rice Oc culture cells on RNA blot analysis. Although PSK-alpha molecules have never been identified in any intact plant, reverse transcription-PCR analysis demonstrated that OsPSK is expressed in rice seedlings, indicating that PSK-alpha may be important for plant cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. DNA blot analysis demonstrated that OsPSK homologs may occur in dicot as well as monocot plants.
10571882	The rice resistance gene Xa21 confers resistance against the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). The molecular genetic mechanism controlling the integration of the Xa21-mediated disease resistance response with the developmental program in rice is under study in this model system. Reproducible means of infecting plants at certain developmental stages were designed based on the timing of full expansion of the leaf. Xa21-resistance progressively increases from the susceptible juvenile leaf 2 stage through later stages, with 100% resistance at the adult leaf 9/10 stage. We found that Xa21 expression is independent of plant developmental stage, infection with Xoo, or wounding. Expression of the Xa21 gene transcript is not correlated with expression of Xa21 disease resistance indicating that the developmental regulation of Xa21-resistance is either controlled post-transcriptionally or by other factors.
10586516	Little is presently known about the nuclear-encoded genes for cytochrome c oxidase (COX) in higher plants. In rice, only the nuclear-encoded COX5b gene has been reported. To understand the relationship between the expression of nuclear-encoded and mitochondrial-encoded COX genes in rice, we first characterized a cDNA encoding one of the other nuclear COX genes, COX5c, which encodes 63 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of COX5c from rice was highly homologous to that from sweet potato. Genomic Southern hybridization indicated that the rice COX5c subunit is encoded by a single copy of the COX5c gene. Furthermore, we compared the expression patterns of the nuclear-encoded COX5c and COX5b genes with the expression pattern of the mitochondrial-encoded COX1 gene among several organs by Northern blot analysis. The results suggested that regulatory systems of expression between the nuclear-encoded and the mitochondrial-encoded COX genes are different among different organs in rice.
10624015	The activation of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases by different environmental stresses has been previously observed in several dicot plant species. Here, we report the isolation of a novel MAP kinase in rice that is induced during infection by the blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea or upon mechanical wounding. The gene is designated as BWMK1 for blast- and wound-induced MAP kinase. The cDNA of BWMK1 was isolated from rice leaves challenged by the blast pathogen. Transcripts of the corresponding gene accumulated in rice leaves 4 h after blast inoculation and 30 min after mechanical wounding. This gene encodes a 506 amino acid protein that contains a new dual-phosphorylation activation motif TDY and about 150 unique amino acids on its C terminus. In-gel kinase activity and immunoprecipitation assays confirmed that BWMK1 is a functional MAP kinase. These results show that BWMK1 is a new member of the plant MAP kinase family and may mediate both defense and wound signaling in rice.
10659768	The entire nucleotide sequence of a 21.1-kb fragment of wheat chloroplast (ct) DNA was determined. This fragment carries 18 intact genes and parts of two additional genes, including the three RNA polymerase genes rpoB, rpoC1, and rpoC2. The gene arrangement of this region is conserved in wheat, rice, and maize, but not in non-grass species. Comparison of these 20 genes in wheat, rice, and maize showed that tRNA genes evolved more slowly than protein-coding genes in the chloroplast genome. Intergenic regions evolved much faster than both types of genes. Although the 19 genes of wheat, except for orf42, showed high identity to those of other plants, there were three novel structural features in the wheat rpoC2 gene; a deletion of 81 bp in the middle region, a variable insertion (408 bp), and a nonsense mutation in the 3' terminal region, resulting in truncation of a sequence of ca. 10 amino acids. An intermolecular recombination between the stretches of CTTAT and CTTTT was suggested as the mechanism of the 81-bp deletion in the wheat rpoC2 gene. Evolutionary distance between the chloroplast genomes of wheat and maize was larger than those between wheat and rice and between rice and maize.
10707360	Inoculation of rice plants (Oryza sativa) with the nonhost pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae leads to the activation of defense-related genes and ultimately to induced resistance against the rice blast fungus Pyricularia oryzae. One of the molecular determinants of P. syringae pv. syringae that is recognized by the plant cells and evokes these defense responses is syringolin A, an elicitor that is secreted by the bacteria under appropriate conditions. In order to investigate signal transduction events elicited by syringolin A, the response of cultured rice cells to syringolin A application was analyzed. Cultured rice cells were able to sense syringolin A at concentrations in the nanomolar range as observed by the transient accumulation of Pir7b esterase transcripts. Syringolin A-mediated Pir7b transcript accumulation was inhibited by cycloheximide, indicating that de novo protein synthesis was required. Calyculin and okadaic acid, two protein phosphatase inhibitors, blocked Pir7b gene induction, whereas the serine/threonine protein kinase inhibitors staurosporine and K-252a had no effect on Pir7b transcript levels. Actin transcript levels were essentially not affected by inhibitor treatments over the experimental time span. These results imply that dephosphorylation of a phosphoprotein is an important step in the syringolin A-triggered signal transduction pathway.
10753522	Five rice homeobox (OSH) genes were overexpressed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter or the rice actin gene promoter in transgenic rice plants. Almost all of the transgenic plants showed abnormal phenotypes, which could be classified into three types according to their severity. Plants with the most severe phenotype formed only green organs, with many shoot apices on their adaxial sides. Plants with an intermediate phenotype formed bladeless leaves with normally developed leaf sheaths. Plants with a mild phenotype formed normal leaf sheaths and blades, but lacked ligules and showed diffusion of the blade-sheath boundary. The leaf structure of this phenotype was similar to that of dominant maize mutants, such as Kn1, Rs1, Lg3, and Lg4. Based on these phenotypes, we suggest that ectopic expression of the rice OSH genes interferes with the development of leaf blades and maintains leaves in less differentiated states. These results are discussed in relation to the leaf maturation schedule hypothesis (M. Freeling et al., 1992, BioEssays 14, 227-236).
10769179	Nramp genes code for a widely distributed class of proteins involved in a variety of processes, ranging from the control of susceptibility to bacterial infection in mammalian cells and taste behaviour in Drosophila to manganese uptake in yeast. Some of the NRAMP proteins in mammals and in yeast are capable of transporting metal ions, including iron. In plants, iron transport was shown to require a reduction/Fe(II) transport system. In Arabidopsis thaliana this process involves the IRT1 and Fro2 genes. Here we report the sequence of five NRAMP proteins from A. thaliana. Sequence comparison suggests that there are two classes of NRAMP proteins in plants: A. thaliana (At) NRAMP1 and Oriza sativa (Os) NRAMP1 and 3 (two rice isologues) represent one class, and AtNRAMP2-5 and OsNRAMP2 the other. AtNramp1 and OsNramp1 are able to complement the fet3fet4 yeast mutant defective both in low- and high-affinity iron transports, whereas AtNramp2 and OsNramp2 fail to do so. In addition, AtNramp1 transcript, but not AtNramp2 transcript, accumulates in response to iron deficiency in roots but not in leaves. Finally, overexpression of AtNramp1 in transgenic A. thaliana plants leads to an increase in plant resistance to toxic iron concentration. Taken together, these results demonstrate that AtNramp1 participates in the control of iron homoeostasis in plants.
10798615	Glucose effects on the expression of the abscisic acid-inducible Rab16A gene were examined in rice and barley embryos. Glucose feeding to rice embryos negatively affects the endogenous abscisic acid content and represses the promoter activity of the Rab16A gene. Glucose repression of the Rab16A gene takes place both at a transcriptional and a post-transcriptional level. Modulation of the abscisic acid content in rice embryos triggered by glucose did not directly influence the expression of the rice alpha-amylase gene RAmy3D, which is known to be under glucose control. The possible interaction between the glucose and abscisic acid signaling pathway is discussed.
10805588	The novel mannose-binding rice lectin (MRL) purified by Sephadex G-50 or maltamyl Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography was not homogeneous, but the components were separated clearly by two dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (1st; isoelectric focusing with Immobiline, 2nd; SDS-PAGE). The major spots were located at pI 4.85 and 4.74, and minor spots at pI 4.66, 4.56, and 4.44; all spots were distributed at about MW 45,000. Other faint spots were sometimes detected just below the major spots. In the western blot analysis, all the spots reacted with the monoclonal antibodies specific to MRL, which bound to MRL and inhibited the lectin activity to agglutinate rabbit erythrocytes. The proteins of the spots at pI 4.85, 4.77, 4.66, and 4.56 had lectin activity. The major proteins at pI 4.85 and 4.77 also had the common amino acid sequence at N-terminus, TLVKIGPWGGNGGSAQDISV, which is almost identical to salt and drought stress-inducible salT gene products in rice plants. High homology was also conserved in both the cDNA and the genomic clones encoding the MRL component at pI 4.85, which were selected with MRL-specific antibodies and an oligonucleotide designed from the partial amino acid sequence. All results suggest that MRL is composed of several isolectins, if not, related proteins having a common epitope and may belong to a family of stress-inducible proteins.
10811811	We have identified a rice gene encoding a DNA-binding protein that specifically recognizes the telomeric repeat sequence TTTAGGG found in plants. This gene, which we refer to as RTBP1 (rice telomere-binding protein 1), encodes a polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 70 kDa. RTBP1 is ubiquitously expressed in various organs and binds DNA with two or more duplex TTTAGGG repeats. The predicted protein sequence includes a single domain at the C terminus with extensive homology to Myb-like DNA binding motif. The Myb-like domain of RTBP1 is very closely related to that of other telomere-binding proteins, including TRF1, TRF2, Taz1p, and Tbf1p, indicating that DNA-binding domains of telomere-binding proteins are well conserved among evolutionarily distant species. To obtain precise information on the sequence of the DNA binding site recognized by RTBP1, we analyzed the sequence-specific binding properties of the isolated Myb-like domain of RTBP1. The isolated Myb-like domain was capable of sequence-specific DNA binding as a homodimer. Gel retardation analysis with a series of mutated telomere probes revealed that the internal GGGTTT sequence in the two-telomere repeats is critical for binding of Myb-like domain of RTBP1, which is consistent with the model of the TRF1.DNA complex showing that base-specific contacts are made within the sequence GGGTTA. To the best of our knowledge, RTBP1 is the first cloned gene in which the product is able to bind double-stranded telomeric DNA in plants. Because the Myb-like domain appears to be a significant motif for a large class of proteins that bind the duplex telomeric DNA, RTBP1 may play important roles in plant telomere function in vivo.
10872230	A novel plant lectin was isolated from salt-stressed rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants and partially characterized. The lectin occurs as a natural mixture of two closely related isoforms consisting of two identical non-covalently linked subunits of 15 kDa. Both isoforms are best inhibited by mannose and exhibit potent mitogenic activity towards T-lymphocytes. Biochemical analyses and sequence comparisons further revealed that the rice lectins belong to the subgroup of mannose-binding jacalin-related lectins. In addition, it could be demonstrated that the lectins described here correspond to the protein products of previously described salt-stress-induced genes. Our results not only identify the rice lectin as a stress protein but also highlight the possible importance of protein-carbohydrate interactions in stress responses in plants.
10875920	An assay was developed to study plant receptor kinase activation and signaling mechanisms. The extracellular leucine-rich repeat (LRR) and transmembrane domains of the Arabidopsis receptor kinase BRI1, which is implicated in brassinosteroid signaling, were fused to the serine/threonine kinase domain of XA21, the rice disease resistance receptor. The chimeric receptor initiates plant defense responses in rice cells upon treatment with brassinosteroids. These results, which indicate that the extracellular domain of BRI1 perceives brassinosteroids, suggest a general signaling mechanism for the LRR receptor kinases of plants. This system should allow the discovery of ligands for the LRR kinases, the largest group of plant receptor kinases.
10921881	Rice expressing the Pi-ta gene is resistant to strains of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, expressing AVR-Pita in a gene-for-gene relationship. Pi-ta encodes a putative cytoplasmic receptor with a centrally localized nucleotide-binding site and leucine-rich domain (LRD) at the C-terminus. AVR-Pita is predicted to encode a metalloprotease with an N-terminal secretory signal and pro-protein sequences. AVR-Pita(176) lacks the secretory and pro-protein sequences. We report here that transient expression of AVR-Pita(176) inside plant cells results in a Pi-ta-dependent resistance response. AVR-Pita(176) protein is shown to bind specifically to the LRD of the Pi-ta protein, both in the yeast two-hybrid system and in an in vitro binding assay. Single amino acid substitutions in the Pi-ta LRD or in the AVR-Pita(176) protease motif that result in loss of resistance in the plant also disrupt the physical interaction, both in yeast and in vitro. These data suggest that the AVR-Pita(176) protein binds directly to the Pi-ta LRD region inside the plant cell to initiate a Pi-ta-mediated defense response.
10934011	The vascular tissues of plants form a network of interconnected cell files throughout the plant body. The transition from a genetically totipotent meristematic precursor to different stages of a committed procambial cell, and its subsequent differentiation into a mature vascular element, involves developmental events whose molecular nature is still mostly unknown. The rice protein Oshox1 is a member of the homeodomain leucine zipper family of transcription factors. Here we show that the strikingly precise onset of Oshox1 gene expression marks critical, early stages of provascular ontogenesis in which the developmental fate of procambial cells is specified but not yet stably determined. This suggests that the Oshox1 gene may be involved in the establishment of the conditions required to restrict the developmental potential of procambial cells. In support of this hypothesis, ectopic expression of Oshox1 in provascular cells that normally do not yet express this gene results in anticipation of procambial cell fate commitment, eventually culminating in premature vascular differentiation. Oshox1 represents the first example of a transcription factor whose function can be linked to specification events mediating provascular cell fate commitment.
10987133	OPT8(511) was confirmed to be strongly associated with cold sensitivity of rice by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis for the cold tolerance with 94 F2 population crossed with 'Dular' (cold sensitive cultivar) and 'Toyohatamochi' (cold resistant cultivar). A DNA marker from the RAPD fragment, OPT8(511), has been cloned with genomic DNA from rice cultivar ('Dular') and the nucleotide sequence has been determined. The nucleotide sequence revealed that the putative open reading frame was 511 base pairs and contained 169 amino acid residues. It is 79% and 57% identical to the rice cDNA (C26347) in DataBank at the nucleotide and amino acid sequence levels, respectively. The clone OPT8(511) specifically amplified a 511 bp band from the DNA of cold sensitive cultivars. Use of this marker could facilitate early selection of character associated with cold tolerance in rice.
11016827	A rice transcript, Rim2, was identified that accumulated in both incompatible and compatible interactions between rice and Magnaporthe grisea. The Rim2 transcript also accumulated in response to treatment with a cell wall elicitor derived from M. grisea. A 3.3-kb RIM2 cDNA clone was isolated and is predicted to encode a protein of 653 amino acids, which shares 32 55% identity with TNP2-like proteins encoded by CACTA transposons of other plants. A 1.05-kb segment of the Rim2 sequence shows 82% nucleotide sequence identity with sequences flanking the A1 and C members of the rice Xa21 disease resistance gene family. The 5'-upstream region of Rim2 was cloned and the transcriptional start sites were identified. The 5' and 3' noncoding termini of Rim2 are AT-rich. A cis-element showing similarity to a sequence that mediates defense-associated transcriptional activation of the tobacco retrotransposon Tnt1, and four motifs that fit the consensus sequence of the elicitor-responsive elements in the promoters of the parsley PR-1 genes were found in the 5'-upstream region. Four imperfect tandem repeats were identified in the 3' noncoding terminus. Southern analysis with genomic DNA from different rice species indicated that Rim2 is present in 3-4 copies per genome. These results suggest that Rim2 may be one component of a large CACTA-like element, whose transcript accumulates in response to attack by pathogens.
11024284	We initiated a search for disease resistance (R) gene homologues in rice cultivar IR64, one of the most agronomically important rice varieties in the world, with the assumption that some of these homologues would correspond to previously identified disease resistance loci. A family of rice R gene homologues was identified using the Arabidopsis NBS-LRR disease resistance gene RPS2 as a hybridization probe. Because member genes of this rice R gene family exhibit features characteristic of the NBS-LRR class of resistance genes, the family was given the name NRH (for NBS-LRR resistance gene homologues). Three members of the NRH family, NRH1, NRH2, and NRH3, were cloned and studied in detail. In IR64, NRH1 and NRH2 appear to encode full-length polypeptides, whereas NRH3 is prematurely truncated with a stop codon generated by a frameshift. NRH1 maps on chromosome 5, and NRH2 and NRH3 are less than 48kb apart on chromosome 11. Although NRH1, NRH2, and NRH3 map to regions of the rice genome where disease resistance loci to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) have been identified, susceptible rice varieties transformed with either NRH1 or NRH2 failed to exhibit increased resistance to a set of well-characterized Xoo strains.
11090206	Genetic mapping showed that the rice blast avirulence gene AVR-Pita is tightly linked to a telomere on chromosome 3 in the plant pathogenic fungus Magnaporthe grisea. AVR-Pita corresponds in gene-for-gene fashion to the disease resistance (R) gene Pi-ta. Analysis of spontaneous avr-pita(-) mutants indicated that the gene is located in a telomeric 6.5-kb BglII restriction fragment. Cloning and DNA sequencing led to the identification of a candidate gene with features typical of metalloproteases. This gene is located entirely within the most distal 1.5 kb of the chromosome. When introduced into virulent rice pathogens, the cloned gene specifically confers avirulence toward rice cultivars that contain Pi-ta. Frequent spontaneous loss of AVR-Pita appears to be the result of its telomeric location. Diverse mutations in AVR-Pita, including point mutations, insertions, and deletions, permit the fungus to avoid triggering resistance responses mediated by Pi-ta. A point mutation in the protease consensus sequence abolishes the AVR-Pita avirulence function.
11090207	The rice blast resistance (R) gene Pi-ta mediates gene-for-gene resistance against strains of the fungus Magnaporthe grisea that express avirulent alleles of AVR-Pita. Using a map-based cloning strategy, we cloned Pi-ta, which is linked to the centromere of chromosome 12. Pi-ta encodes a predicted 928-amino acid cytoplasmic receptor with a centrally localized nucleotide binding site. A single-copy gene, Pi-ta shows low constitutive expression in both resistant and susceptible rice. Susceptible rice varieties contain pi-ta(-) alleles encoding predicted proteins that share a single amino acid difference relative to the Pi-ta resistance protein: serine instead of alanine at position 918. Transient expression in rice cells of a Pi-ta(+) R gene together with AVR-Pita(+) induces a resistance response. No resistance response is induced in transient assays that use a naturally occurring pi-ta(-) allele differing only by the serine at position 918. Rice varieties reported to have the linked Pi-ta(2) gene contain Pi-ta plus at least one other R gene, potentially explaining the broadened resistance spectrum of Pi-ta(2) relative to Pi-ta. Molecular cloning of the AVR-Pita and Pi-ta genes will aid in deployment of R genes for effective genetic control of rice blast disease.
11129045	The extent of conservation of RNA editing sites in the plastid genome of rice was determined by comparing the genomic sequence with that of the cDNA. The presence of a T in the cDNA predicted to be a C by the DNA sequence of the plastid genome, indicated C to U editing. In the 11 plastid transcripts of rice a total of 21 editing sites were found. In maize, a closely related grass species, 26 editing sites have been reported in 13 plastid transcripts. Most editing sites are conserved between the two species, although differences in RNA editing were found at eight sites. In seven cases the T was already encoded at the DNA level, eliminating the requirement for RNA editing. In one case (rpoB, codon 206) the RNA sequence was conserved between the two species, but the mRNA is still not edited in rice. It appears that, although evolutionarily conserved, RNA editing is essential only for a few plastid editing sites. Information about RNA editing in rice plastids will facilitate the design of plastid vectors with broad applicability in grass species.
11133985	The GCN4 motif, a cis-element that is highly conserved in the promoters of cereal seed storage protein genes, plays a central role in controlling endosperm-specific expression. This motif is the recognition site for a basic leucine zipper transcriptional factor that belongs to the group of maize Opaque-2 (O2)-like proteins. Five different basic leucine zipper cDNA clones, designated RISBZ1-5, have been isolated from a rice seed cDNA library. The predicted gene products can be divided into two groups based on their amino acid sequences. Although all the RISBZ proteins are able to interact with the GCN4 motif, only RISBZ1 is capable of activating (more than 100-fold expression) the expression of a reporter gene under a minimal promoter fused to a pentamer of the GCN4 motif. Loss-of-function and gain-of-function experiments using the yeast GAL4 DNA binding domain revealed that the proline-rich N-terminal domain (27 amino acids in length) is responsible for transactivation. The RISBZ1 protein is capable of forming homodimers as well as heterodimers with other RISBZ subunit proteins. RISBZ1 gene expression is restricted to the seed, where it precedes the expression of storage protein genes. When the RISBZ1 promoter was transcriptionally fused to the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene and the chimeric gene was introduced into rice, the beta-glucuronidase gene is specifically expressed in aleurone and subaleurone layer of the developing endosperm. These findings suggest that the specific expression of transcriptional activator RISBZ1 gene may determine the endosperm specificity of the storage protein genes.
11237465	We have analyzed two mutants that exhibit altered panicle architecture in rice (Oryza sativa L.). In lax1-2, which is a new and stronger allele of the previously reported lax mutant, initiation and/or maintenance of rachis-branches, lateral spikelets, and terminal spikelets was severely prevented. In situ hybridization analysis using OSH1, a rice knotted1 (kn1) ortholog, confirmed the absence of lateral meristems in lax1-2 panicles. These defects indicate that the LAX1 gene is required for the initiation/maintenance of axillary meristems in the rice panicle. In addition to its role in forming lateral meristems, the wild-type LAX1 gene acts as a floral meristem identity gene which specifies the terminal spikelet meristem. A comparison of the defects in lax1-1 and lax1-2 plants suggested that the sensitivities to reduced LAX1 activity were not uniform among different types of meristems. In the fzp2 mutant panicle, the basic branching pattern of the panicle was indistinguishable from that of the wild type; however, specification of both terminal and lateral spikelet meristems was blocked, and sequential rounds of branching occurred at the point where the spikelet meristems are initiated in the wild-type panicle. This resulted in the generation of a panicle composed of excessive ramification of rachis-branches. The lax1-1 fzp2 double mutants exhibited a novel, basically additive, phenotype, which suggests that LAX1 and FZP2 function in genetically independent pathways.
11272832	Probenazole (PBZ) induces non-race specific resistance in rice plants against rice blast fungus and PBZ1 was identified as a PBZ-inducible gene from rice. The induction of PBZ1 expression in suspension-cultured rice cells was investigated. Northern blot analysis indicated that PBZ1 was induced by PBZ in a dose-dependent manner. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) showed a dose and time-dependent accumulation of PBZ1 protein. Both mRNA and protein analysis showed that PBZ1 was not induced by salicylic acid or an active metabolite, 1,2-benzisothiazole-1,1-dioxide.
11489190	It is thought that Na+ and K+ homeostasis is crucial for salt-tolerance in plants. To better understand the Na+ and K+ homeostasis in important crop rice (Oryza sativa L.), a cDNA homologous to the wheat HKT1 encoding K+-Na+ symporter was isolated from japonica rice, cv Nipponbare (Ni-OsHKT1). We also isolated two cDNAs homologous to Ni-OsHKT1 from salt-tolerant indica rice, cv Pokkali (Po-OsHKT1, Po-OsHKT2). The predicted amino acid sequence of Ni-OsHKT1 shares 100% identity with Po-OsHKT1 and 91% identity with Po-OsHKT2, and they are 66-67% identical to wheat HKT1. Low-K+ conditions (less than 3 mM) induced the expression of all three OsHKT genes in roots, but mRNA accumulation was inhibited by the presence of 30 mM Na+. We further characterized the ion-transport properties of OsHKT1 and OsHKT2 using an expression system in the heterologous cells, yeast and Xenopus oocytes. OsHKT2 was capable of completely rescuing a K+-uptake deficiency mutation in yeast, whereas OsHKT1 was not under K+-limiting conditions. When OsHKTs were expressed in Na+-sensitive yeast, OsHKT1 rendered the cells more Na+-sensitive than did OsHKT2 in high NaCl conditions. The electrophysiological experiments for OsHKT1 expressed in Xenopus oocytes revealed that external Na+, but not K+, shifted the reversal potential toward depolarization. In contrast, for OsHKT2 either Na+ or K+ in the external solution shifted the reversal potential toward depolarization under the mixed Na+ and K+ containing solutions. These results suggest that two isoforms of HKT transporters, a Na+ transporter (OsHKT1) and a Na+- and K+-coupled transporter (OsHKT2), may act harmoniously in the salt tolerant indica rice.
11506359	We have studied the use of a glucocorticoid receptor-based inducible gene expression system in the monocotyledonous model plant rice (Oryza sativa L.). This system, originally developed by T. Aoyama and N.-H. Chua [(1997) Plant J 11: 605-612], is based on the chimaeric transcriptional activator GVG, consisting of the yeast Gal4 DNA-binding domain, the VP16 activation domain and the glucocorticoid receptor domain. For application in rice, we designed an optimized binary vector series (pINDEX) and tested this with the beta-glucuronidase (gusA) reporter gene. GUS expression was tightly controlled and relatively low concentrations (1-10 microM) of the glucocorticoid hormone dexamethasone (DEX) were able to induce GUS activities to levels comparable to those conferred by the strong cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. DEX was taken up efficiently by the roots of tissue-cultured plantlets or mature plants in hydroponic culture, and induced GUS activity throughout the whole plant. DEX-induced GUS expression patterns were consistent in all lines and their T1 progeny. The phenotype of tissue-cultured rice plantlets was not affected when inductions with 10-100 microM DEX were limited to 1-4 days or when 2-week inductions were performed with 1 microM DEX, which was already sufficient to reach near-maximal GUS activity. However, 2-week inductions with 10 microM DEX caused growth retardation and developmental defects. As the severity of these effects varied between different lines, we could select lines with a mild phenotype for future use as activator lines in crosses with 'target' plants.
11527396	A novel rice (Oryza sativa L.) gene, homologous to a sorghum pathogenesis-related class 10 protein gene, was cloned from a cDNA library prepared from 2-week-old jasmonic acid-treated rice seedling leaves, and named as JIOsPR10 (jasmonate inducible). JIOsPR10 encoded a 160-amino-acid polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 17,173.23 Da and a pI of 5.84. JIOsPR10 was highly similar (77%) to the sorghum PR10 protein, but showed less than 55% similarity with other identified PR10s at the amino acid level. Genomic Southern analyses indicated the presence of related genes in the rice genome. The JIOsPR10 transcript was not detected in the healthy leaves, and was not induced after cut. Further expression analysis revealed that the signaling components of defense/stress pathways, jasmonate, salicylate, and H(2)O(2) significantly up-regulated the JIOsPR10 mRNA over the cut control, whereas two other stress regulators, ethylene and abscisic acid, failed to induce its expression. Interestingly the protein phosphatase (PP) inhibitors, cantharidin, endothall, and okadaic acid, rapidly and potently up-regulated the JIOsPR10 expression, suggesting involvement of the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation events. Additionally, the inducible expression of the JIOsPR10 gene was influenced by light signal(s). Finally, the blast pathogen (Magnaporthe grisea) also specifically elicited the accumulation of JIOsPR10 mRNA in leaves. Induction of the JIOsPR10 gene expression by signaling molecules, PP inhibitors and pathogen attack, strongly indicate a role for this novel gene in rice self-defense/stress response(s).
11536429	We produced transgenic rice calli, which constitutively express each of four KNOX family class 1 homeobox genes of rice, OSH1, OSH16, OSH15, and OSH71, and found that constitutive and ectopic expression of such genes inhibits normal regeneration from transformed calli, which showed continuous growth around their shoot-regenerating stages. Transgenic calli transferred onto regeneration medium began to display green spots, a sign of regeneration, but most of the transformants continued to propagate green spots at given stages. In the normal shoot-regeneration process of calli, expression of endogenous OSH1 was restricted in presumptive shoot-regenerating regions of calli and not observed in other areas. This restricted expression pattern should be required for further differentiation of the regenerating shoots. Thus our present results support the proposed function that KNOX family class 1 homeobox genes play a role in the formation and maintenance of the undetermined meristematic state of cells.
11549765	The rice KNOX protein OSH15 consists of four conserved domains: the MEINOX domain, which can be divided into two subdomains (KNOX1 and KNOX2); the GSE domain; the ELK domain; and the homeodomain (HD). To investigate the function of each domain, we generated 10 truncated proteins with deletions in the conserved domains and four proteins with mutations in the conserved amino acids in the HD. Transgenic analysis suggested that KNOX2 and HD are essential for inducing the abnormal phenotype and that the KNOX1 and ELK domains affect phenotype severity. We also found that both KNOX2 and HD are necessary for homodimerization and that only HD is needed for binding of OSH15 to its target sequence. Transactivation studies suggested that both the KNOX1 and ELK domains play a role in suppressing target gene expression. On the basis of these findings, we propose that overproduced OSH15 probably acts as a dimer and may ectopically suppress the expression of target genes that induce abnormal morphology in transgenic plants.
11572990	The gene encoding the rice transcription factor, REB (rice endosperm bZIP) was cloned from a bacterial artificial chromosome library of rice. The cloned 6,227-bp-long Reb gene is composed of six exons and five introns and is flanked by a 1.2-kb 5' promoter and a 1.2-kb 3' terminator region. The function of the Reb gene was explored by a transient assay by using a rice immature endosperm system. The effector constructs containing the native gene or fusion genes linking Reb to the rice actin (Act) or globulin (Glb) gene promoters and the reporter gene construct Glb-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) were used in this study. When these effector constructs were cotransferred with the reporter uidA gene encoding GUS under the control of the Glb promoter into immature rice endosperm cells, the Glb promoter was activated. The transient GUS expression was 2.0 to 2.5-fold higher with the effector construct than without. When the upstream activation sequence containing the GCCACGT(A/C)AG motifs of the Glb promoter was deleted, the activation by REB was abolished. On the other hand, a gain-of-function experiment showed that inserting the upstream activation sequence into the glutelin-1 (Gt1) promoter made it responsive to activation by REB. When cotransformed with Reb gene, mature transgenic rice grains containing the human lysozyme gene driven by the Glb promoter produced 3.7-fold more lysozyme. Accumulation of recombinant lysozyme in mature seed ranged from 30.57 to 279.61 microg.mg(-1) total soluble protein in individual transformants from 30 independent transformation events. Thus, our results show that REB is not only a transcriptional activator, it can also be used to increase the expression of recombinant protein in transgenic rice grains.
11577193	The Purple leaf (Pl) locus of rice (Oryza sativa L.) affects regulation of anthocyanin biosynthesis in various plant tissues. The tissue-specific patterns of anthocyanin pigmentation, together with the syntenic relationship, indicate that the rice Pl locus may play a role in the anthocyanin pathway similar to the maize R/B loci. We isolated two cDNAs showing significant identity to the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins found in the maize R gene family. OSB1 appeared to be allelic to the previously isolated R homologue, Ra1, but showed a striking difference at the C-terminus because of a 2-bp deletion. Characterization of the corresponding genomic region revealed that the sequence identical to a 5'-portion of OSB2 existed approximately 10-kb downstream of the OSB1 coding region. OSB2 lacks a conserved C-terminal domain. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses using an F(2) population indicate that both genes co-segregate with the purple leaf phenotype. A transient complementation assay showed that the anthocyanin pathway is inducible by OSB1 or OSB2. These results suggest that the Pl(w) allele may be complex and composed of at least two genes encoding bHLH proteins.
11590832	Bacterial leaf blight caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is one of the most important diseases affecting rice production in Asia. We were interested in surveying rice genotypes that are popularly used in the Indian breeding program for conferring resistance to bacterial blight, using 11 STMS and 6 STS markers. The basis of selection of these DNA markers was their close linkage to xa5, xa13, and Xa21 genes and their positions on the rice genetic map relative to bacterial blight resistance genes. Eight lines were found to contain the xa5 gene while two lines contained Xa21 gene and none of the lines contained the xa13 gene with the exception of its near-isogenic line. Using the polymorphic markers obtained in the initial survey, marker-assisted selection was performed in the F3 population of a cross between IR-64 and IET-14444 to detect lines containing multiple resistance genes. Of the 59 progeny lines analyzed, eight lines contained both the resistance genes, xa5 and Xa4.
11702691	The cloned bacterial blight (BB) resistance gene Xa21 was transferred into C418, a major restorer line of japonica hybrid rice in China, using an Agrobacterium-mediated system. The integrated single copy of transgene displayed a 3:1 segregation ratio in T1 generation in PCR and resistance analyses. The transgenic homozygous C418-Xa21 lines were selected in T2 generation through PCR and resistance analyses. The selected transgenic restorer lines were then crossed with a commonly used sterile line, TijinA, to produce Xa21 transgenic hybrid rice. Molecular analysis revealed that the produced hybrid rice, named as Tiyou418-Xa21, inherited the transgene. Both C418-Xa21 and Tiyou418-Xa21 plants displayed high resistance with a broad spectrum to Xoo races and maintained their normal elite agronomic characters. We also observed that the resistance level of Tiyou418-Xa21 was obviously higher than that of C418-Xa21 which may be attributed to their differences in genetic background. The propagation of this BB resistant hybrid variety with the transgene Xa21 with extend hybrid rice production in north China.
11706039	The control of subcellular mRNA localization and translation is often mediated by protein factors that are directly or indirectly associated with the cytoskeleton. We report the identification and characterization of a rice seed protein that possesses both RNA and microtubule binding activities. In vitro UV cross-linking assays indicated that this protein binds to all mRNA sequences tested, although there was evidence for preferential binding to RNAs that contained A-C nucleotide sequence motifs. The protein was purified to homogeneity using a two-step procedure, and amino acid sequencing identified it as the multifunctional protein (MFP), a peroxisomal enzyme known to possess a number of activities involved in the beta-oxidation of fatty acids. The recombinant version of this rice MFP binds to RNA in UV cross-linking and gel mobility shift experiments, co-sediments specifically with microtubules, and possesses at least two enzymatic activities involved in peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation. Taken together these data suggest that MFP has an important role in mRNA physiology in the cytoplasm, perhaps in regulating the localization or translation of mRNAs through an interaction with microtubules, in addition to its peroxisomal function.
11725950	The rice blast resistance gene Pib is a member of the nucleotide binding site (NBS) and leucine-rich repeat (LRR) class of plant disease resistance (R) genes and belongs to a small gene family. We describe here the isolation and characterization of a Pib homologue (PibH8), and extensive investigation of the expression of the Pib gene family (Pib, PibH8, HPibH8-1, HPibH8-2) under various environmental and chemical treatments. PibH8 shows 42% identity and 60% similarity to Pib and, like Pib, has a duplication of the kinase 1a, 2, and 3a motifs of the NBS region in the N-terminal half of the protein. Interestingly, genes of the Pib family exhibit a diurnal rhythm of expression. RNA gel blot analysis revealed that their expression was regulated dramatically by environmental signals. such as temperature, light and water availability. Their expression was also induced by chemical treatments, such as jasmonic acid, salicylic acid, ethylene and probenazole. Our findings suggest that expression of the Pib gene family is up-regulated by environmental conditions that would favour pathogen infection. This may reflect the evolution of anticipatory control of R gene expression.
11726280	Effects of rice bran agglutinin (RBA) on human monoblastic leukemia U937 cells were examined in comparison with those of wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) and Viscum album agglutinin (VAA). These lectins inhibit cell growth, and several lines of evidence indicate that the growth inhibition is caused by the induction of apoptosis. We observed that RBA induces chromatin condensation, externalization of membrane phosphatidylserine, and DNA ladder formation, features of apoptosis. DNA ladder formation was inhibited by a general inhibitor against caspases, which are known to play essential roles in apoptosis. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that RBA and WGA cause G2/M phase cell cycle arrest with increased expression of Waf1/p21, while cell cycle arrest was not observed for VAA. These data indicate that RBA induces apoptosis associated with cell cycle arrest in U937 cells, and suggest that the induction mechanism for RBA is similar to that for WGA, but different from that for VAA.
11726707	A rice Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase, OsCDPK7, is a positive regulator commonly involved in the tolerance to cold and salt/drought. We carried out in situ detection of the transcript and immunolocalization of the protein. In the wild-type rice plants under both stress conditions, OsCDPK7 was expressed predominantly in vascular tissues of crowns and roots, vascular bundles and central cylinder, respectively, where water stress occurs most severely. This enzyme was also expressed in the peripheral cylinder of crown vascular bundles and root sclerenchyma. Similar localization patterns with stronger signals were observed in stress-tolerant OsCDPK7 over-expressing transformants with the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The transcript of a putative target gene of the OsCDPK7 signaling pathway, rab16A, was also detected essentially in the same tissues upon salt stress, suggesting that the OsCDPK7 pathway operates predominantly in these regions. We propose that the use of the 35S promoter fortuitously strengthened the localized expression of OsCDPK7, resulting in enhancement of the stress signaling in the inherently operating regions leading to improved stress tolerance.
11828032	The sequence requirement of the ACGT-containing abscisic acid response element (ABRE) was analyzed by systematically substituting the bases surrounding the ACGT-core of motif A, the principal ABRE of the rice gene, OSEM: This was done within the context of a 55-bp promoter fragment that minimally confers ABA-responsiveness to a heterologous promoter. Based on this analysis, the sequence requirement of the ACGT-containing ABRE was determined as ACGTG G/T C, which matched very well with the consensus derived from sequence comparison of ABA-responsive promoters.
11842169	Rice (Oryza sativa) class I low-molecular mass (LMM) heat shock protein (HSP), Oshsp16.9, has been shown to be able to confer thermotolerance in Escherichia coli. To define the regions for this intriguing property, deletion mutants of this hsp have been constructed and overexpressed in E. coli XL1-blue cells after isopropyl beta-D-thioglactopyranoside induction. The deletion of amino acid residues 30 through 36 (PATSDND) in the N-terminal domain or 73 through 78 (EEGNVL) in the consensus II domain of Oshsp16.9 led to the loss of chaperone activities and also rendered the E. coli incapable of surviving at 47.5 degrees C. To further investigate the function of these two domains, we determined the light scattering changes of Oshsp16.9 mutant proteins at 320 nm under heat treatment either by themselves or in the presence of a thermosensitive enzyme, citrate synthase. It was observed that regions of amino acid residues 30 through 36 and 73 through 78 were responsible for stability of Oshsp16.9 and its interactions with other unfolded protein substrates, such as citrate synthase. Studies of two-point mutants of Oshsp16.9, GST-N74E73K and GST-N74E74K, indicate that amino acid residues 73 and 74 are an important part of the substrate-binding site of Oshsp16.9. Non-denaturing gel analysis of purified Oshsp16.9 revealed that oligomerization of Oshsp16.9 was necessary but not sufficient for its chaperone activity.
11917085	The spatial and temporal expression patterns of the rice VP1 (OSVP1) gene, as well as the OSEM gene which it controls, were studied during seed development by in situ hybridization and immuno-localization techniques. The expression of OSVP1 could be detected in embryos as early as 2-3 d after pollination (DAP) and thereafter became preferentially localized to shoot, radicle and vascular tissues during the embryo development at both the mRNA and protein levels. In the aleurone layers, OSVP1 mRNA and protein were detected after 6 DAP. OSEM mRNA was detectable after 6 DAP in the embryo and aleurone tissue. The spatial distribution within the embryo of OSEM mRNA and OSVP1 mRNA/protein was very similar after 6 DAP. Transgenic rice carrying a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene transcribed from a chimeric promoter consisting of the CaMV 35S minimal promoter (-46) and the 55-bp promoter fragment of OSEM, minimally required for ABA and VP1 regulation, also exhibited a spatial pattern of GUS expression similar to that of OSEM and OSVP1. These results suggest that (OS)VP1 is a major determinant not only of the seed specificity but also of the spatial pattern of OSEM expression in the developing seed.
11927577	The rice disease resistance gene, Xa21, encodes a receptor kinase-like protein consisting of leucine-rich repeats in the putative extracellular domain and a serine/threonine kinase in the putative intracellular domain. The putative XA21 kinase domain was expressed as maltose-binding and glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins in Escherichia coli. The fusion proteins are capable of autophosphorylation. Phosphoamino acid analysis of the glutathione S-transferase fusion protein indicates that only serine and threonine residues are phosphorylated. The relative phosphorylation rate of the XA21 kinase against increasing enzyme concentrations follows a first-order rather than second-order kinetics, indicating an intramolecular phosphorylation mechanism. Moreover, the active XA21 kinase cannot phosphorylate a kinase-deficient mutant of XA21 kinase. The enzymatic activity of the XA21 kinase in a buffer containing Mn(2+) is at least 15 times higher than that with Mg(2+). The K(m) and V(max) of XA21 kinase for ATP are 0.3 microm and 8.4 nmol/mg/min, respectively. Tryptic phosphopeptide mapping reveals that multiple sites on the XA21 kinase are phosphorylated. Finally, our data suggest that the region of XA21 kinase corresponding to the RD kinase activation domain is not phosphorylated, revealing a distinct mode of action compared with the tomato Pto serine/threonine kinase conferring disease resistance.
11977586	By using rice SSRP, RAPD and AFLP molecular markers, the genome of rice transgenic line "Minghui 63-Xa21" was analyzed. 32 SSRP primers, 42 RAPD primers and 8 AFLP primers could produce obvious PCR bands in the analysis of at least 12 individual plants selected randomly from "Minghui 63-Xa21" T3 generation. Totally 550 PCR bands, equivalent to 550 genomic sites, were detected. Different individual plants of the transgenic homozygous line displayed almost the same PCR pattern. Compared with the control "Minghui 63", no difference was found in their PCR patterns. This indicated that the introduction of Xa21 into the genome of "Minghui 63" did not change these 550 genome sites and their heredity. Very few variant PCR bands were observed in some individual plants from both "Minghui 63-Xa21" and "Minghui 63". However, the variant percentage was equivalent between the transgenic line and the non-transgenic control line.
12000681	The TCP domain is a plant-specific DNA binding domain found in proteins from a diverse array of species, including the cycloidea (cyc) and teosinte branched1 (tb1) gene products and the PCF1 and PCF2 proteins. To understand the role in transcriptional regulation of proteins with this domain, we have analysed the DNA binding and dimerization specificity of the TCP protein family using rice PCF proteins, and further evaluated potential targets for the TCP protein. The seven PCF members including five newly isolated proteins, were able to be grouped into two classes, I and II, based on sequence similarity in the TCP domain. Random binding site selection experiments and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) revealed the consensus DNA binding sequences of these two classes to be distinct but overlapping; GGNCCCAC for class I and GTGGNCCC for class II. The TB1 protein from maize, which belongs to class II, had the same specificity as the rice class II proteins, suggesting the conservation of binding specificity between TCP domains from different species. The yeast 2-hybrid assay and EMSA revealed that these proteins tend to form a homodimer or a heterodimer between members of the same class. We searched predicted 5' flanking sequences of Arabidopsis genes for the consensus binding sequences and found that the consensus sites are distributed in the genome at a considerably lower frequency. We further analysed eight promoters containing the class I consensus TCP sites. The transcriptional activities of six promoters were decreased by a mutation of the TCP binding site, which is consistent with the observation that the class I TCP site can confer transactivation function on a heterologous promoter. These results suggest that the two classes of TCP protein are distinct in DNA binding specificity and transcriptional regulation.
12182709	We report the characterization of rice OsHKT1 (Oryza sativa ssp. indica) homologous to the wheat K+/Na+-symporter HKT1. Expression of OsHKT1 in the yeast strain CY162 defective in K+-uptake restored growth at mM and micro M concentrations of K+ and mediated hypersensitivity to Na+. When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, rice OsHKT1 showed uptake characteristics of a Na+-transporter but mediated transport of other alkali cations as well. OsHKT1 expression was analysed in salt-tolerant rice Pokkali and salt-sensitive IR29 in response to external cation concentrations. OsHKT1 is expressed in roots and leaves. Exposure to Na+, Rb+, Li+, and Cs+ reduced OsHKT1 transcript amounts in both varieties and, in some cases, incompletely spliced transcripts were observed. By in situ hybridizations the expression of OsHKT1 was localized to the root epidermis and the vascular tissue inside the endodermis. In leaves, OsHKT1 showed strongest signals in cells surrounding the vasculature. The repression of OsHKT1 in the two rice varieties during salt stress was different in various cell types with main differences in the root vascular tissue. The data suggest control over HKT expression as a factor that may distinguish salt stress-sensitive and stress-tolerant lines. Differences in transcript expression in space and time in different lines of the same species appear to be a component of ion homeostasis correlated with salt sensitivity and tolerance.
12220263	Chloroplast biogenesis is a complex process that requires close co-ordination between two genomes. Many of the proteins that accumulate in the chloroplast are encoded by the nuclear genome, and the developmental transition from proplastid to chloroplast is regulated by nuclear genes. Here we show that a pair of Golden 2-like (GLK) genes regulates chloroplast development in Arabidopsis. The GLK proteins are members of the GARP superfamily of transcription factors, and phylogenetic analysis demonstrates that the maize, rice and Arabidopsis GLK gene pairs comprise a distinct group within the GARP superfamily. Further phylogenetic analysis suggests that the gene pairs arose through separate duplication events in the monocot and dicot lineages. As in rice, AtGLK1 and AtGLK2 are expressed in partially overlapping domains in photosynthetic tissue. Insertion mutants demonstrate that this expression pattern reflects a degree of functional redundancy as single mutants display normal phenotypes in most photosynthetic tissues. However, double mutants are pale green in all photosynthetic tissues and chloroplasts exhibit a reduction in granal thylakoids. Products of several genes involved in light harvesting also accumulate at reduced levels in double mutant chloroplasts. GLK genes therefore regulate chloroplast development in diverse plant species.
12428000	The auxin-inducible homeobox gene Oshox1 of rice (Oryza sativa) is a positive regulator of procambial cell fate commitment, and its overexpression reduces the sensitivity of polar auxin transport (PAT) to the PAT inhibitor 1-N-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA). Here, we show that wild-type rice leaves formed under conditions of PAT inhibition display vein hypertrophy, reduced distance between longitudinal veins, and increased distance between transverse veins, providing experimental evidence for a role of PAT in vascular patterning in a monocot species. Furthermore, we show that Oshox1 overexpression confers insensitivity to these PAT inhibitor-induced vascular-patterning defects. Finally, we show that in the absence of any overt phenotypical change, Oshox1 overexpression specifically reduces the affinity of the NPA-binding protein toward NPA and enhances PAT and its sensitivity toward auxin. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that Oshox1 promotes fate commitment of procambial cells by increasing their auxin conductivity properties and stabilizing this state against modulations of PAT by an endogenous NPA-like molecule.
12505996	The molecular mechanisms through which the complex patterns of plant vascular tissues are established are largely unknown. The highly ordered, yet simple, striate array of veins of rice leaves represents an attractive system to study the dynamics underlying pattern formation. Here we show that mutation in the RADICLELESS1 (RAL1) gene results in distinctive vascular pattern defects. In ral1 embryonic scutella, secondary veins are absent and in the prematurely aborted and discontinuous primary veins, cells are misaligned to each other. In ral1 leaves, longitudinal and commissural (transverse) veins display altered spacing and the commissural veins additionally show atypical branching and interruptions in their continuity. The vascular pattern alterations of ral1 occur in the context of normally shaped leaf primordia. Anatomical inspection and analysis of the expression of the procambium specification marker Oshox1-GUS and of the auxin-inducible reporter DR5-GUS demonstrates that all the vascular patterning aberrations of ral1 originate from defects in the procambium, which represents the earliest identifiable stage of vascular development. Furthermore, the ral1 mutant is unique in that procambium formation in leaf primordium development is delayed. Finally, the ral1 vascular patterning distortions are associated with a defective response to auxin and with an enhanced sensitivity to cytokinin. ral1 is the first mutant impaired in both procambium development and vascular patterning to be isolated in a monocot species.
12589551	Small heat-shock proteins (sHSP) are the most abundant heat stress-induced proteins in plants. In rice, there are at least seven members of class-I sHSP. A 1.6-kb DNA fragment was isolated from the EcoRI-digested rice genomic library probed with the cDNA pTS1 encoding a 16.9-kDa class-I sHSP. This fragment was composed of 365-bp tandem direct repeats (DRs) and 441-bp near perfect long terminal inverted repeats (LTIRs). The DRs contain 123-bp regions with 99% nucleotide identity to the 5' coding region of the Oshsp16.9B gene. Two putative pseudogenes were deduced from the DRs. Using the LTIR as a specific probe, Southern-blotting analysis showed that there was a single copy of this 1.6-kb DNA fragment in the rice genome. By genomic walking, we located this fragment in proximity 5'-upstream of the Oshsp16.9B gene that was mapped on chromosome 1 with other two class-I sHSP genes, Oshsp16.9A and Oshsp16.9C. By comparative analysis of the nucleotide sequences of class-I sHSP genes clustered on chromosome 1 between Tainung No. 67 and Nipponbare cultivars, we confirmed our mapping results of these genes and only the promoter region of Oshsp16.9B was different. However, we found that the expression profile of Oshsp16.9B upon different heat stresses in Nipponbare was not significantly different relative to that in Tainung No. 67.
12624770	The genomic sequence of a rice (Oryza sativa L.) glycine-rich protein (GRP) gene, designated Osgrp-2, has been previously determined (GenBank U40708). Primer extension analysis indicated that transcription starts 47 bp upstream of the translation start codon. To gain an insight into the transcriptional regulation of this gene, the 2,401-bp promoter sequence and a series of its 5' deletions were transcriptionally fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. GUS activity was subsequently assayed in a transient expression system of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) protoplasts, which revealed the presence of a positive regulatory region (-2290 to -1406) and two negative regulatory regions (-2401 to -2291 and -1405 to -1022) in the Osgrp-2 promoter for the promoter activity. The positive regulatory region displayed an enhancer-like activity when fused to the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S minimal promoter (-89 to +6) to drive GUS expression and assayed on tobacco leaves by the Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression technique (agroinfiltration). Histochemical staining for GUS activity on transgenic tobacco plants has further indicated a preferential expression in vascular tissues of stems and leaves conferred by the positive regulatory region. A 1,023-bp fragment of the Osgrp-2 promoter (-1021 to +2) fused with GUS was transformed into tobacco and proved to be capable of conferring vascular-specific expression. Further 5' and 3' deletion analysis of the 1,023-bp promoter revealed that a 99-bp fragment located from -497 to -399 contained cis-elements responsible for vascular-specific expression.
12676326	LFY and its orthologues are necessary for flower specification in diverse dicotyledonous plants. The spatial and temporal RNA expression pattern of a rice LFY-like gene: RFL differs significantly from that in several other species studied thus far. The onset of RFL expression coincides with inflorescence meristem (panicle meristem) initiation, and continues during panicle branching. Notably, incipient flower primordia have lower expression levels, and during floral organogenesis the expression is restricted to second-whorl lodicules. To explore mechanisms underlying this distinct expression pattern, we have tested the transcription regulatory functions of sequences upstream to RFL coding sequences either alone, or together with intragenic segments. Sequences 3.0 kb upstream of the RFL reading frame do not confer correctly regulated reporter gene expression in transgenic rice. In contrast, RFL intron1 or 2 can individually confer the expected profile in the developing panicle and floret. However, the additional repression of expression in vegetative tissues, is a pattern achieved by intron2 together with far-upstream sequences. Strikingly, RFL intron2 sequences can even utilize the Arabidopsis thaliana LFY promoter to confer regulated transcription in young rice panicles. By sequence comparison of RFL upstream sequences, intron1, intron2 and the Arabidopsis LFY promoter, we identify putative cis-regulatory elements unique to RFL. These data exemplify the use of regulatory circuits specific to rice RFL that may underlie its divergent function.
12744513	Acidovorax avenae causes a brown stripe disease in monocot plants. We recently reported that a rice-incompatible strain of A. avenae caused hypersensitive cell death in rice and that the flagellin of the incompatible strain was involved in this response. The incompatible strain induced the rapid generation of H2O2 accompanying hypersensitive cell death and the expression of defense genes such as PAL, Cht-1, PBZ1, and LOX, whereas the compatible strain did not. The purified incompatible flagellin also induced the expression of PAL, Cht-1, and PBZ1, but LOX expression was not induced by the incompatible flagellin. PAL and LOX enzymatic activities were increased by inoculation with the incompatible strain, whereas only PAL activity was increased by the incompatible flagellin. Interestingly, the flagellin-deficient incompatible strain lost the ability to generate H2O2 and induce hypersensitive cell death, but PAL, Cht-1, and PBZ1 expression still were induced by inoculation with the deficient strain, suggesting that induction of these genes is regulated not only by flagellin but also by some other signal. Thus, the incompatible flagellin of A. avenae is a specific elicitor in rice, but it is not the only factor capable of inducing the rice defense system.
12878845
12913152	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are known to transduce plant defense signals, but the downstream components of the MAPK have as yet not been elucidated. Here, we report an MAPK from rice (Oryza sativa), BWMK1, and a transcription factor, OsEREBP1, phosphorylated by the kinase. The MAPK carries a TDY phosphorylation motif instead of the more common TEY motif in its kinase domain and has an unusually extended C-terminal domain that is essential to its kinase activity and translocation to the nucleus. The MAPK phosphorylates OsEREBP1 that binds to the GCC box element (AGCCGCC) of the several basic pathogenesis-related gene promoters, which in turn enhances DNA-binding activity of the factor to the cis element in vitro. Transient co-expression of the BWMK1 and OsEREBP1 in Arabidopsis protoplasts elevates the expression of the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene driven by the GCC box element. Furthermore, transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants overexpressing BWMK1 expressed many pathogenesis-related genes at higher levels than wild-type plants with an enhanced resistance to pathogens. These findings suggest that MAPKs contribute to plant defense signal transduction by phosphorylating one or more transcription factors.
1302635	A single copy gene has been isolated, termed GOS2, from rice. Sequence comparison revealed highly similar genes in mammals and yeast, indicating that GOS2 encodes an evolutionary conserved protein. GOS2 mRNA was detected in all tissues examined. When the upstream region was translationally fused to the reporter gene gusA it was found to drive expression in a variety of rice tissues and in cell suspensions of other monocot species following introduction by particle bombardment. Therefore, the GOS2 promoter is potentially useful for genetic engineering of monocots. A DNA-binding activity from rice, termed rice ASF-1, with similar binding specificity as the cloned tobacco transcription factor TGA-1a, was found to bind to a TGACG sequence motif in the GOS2 promoter. Possible roles for rice ASF-1 in the transcriptional activation of the GOS2 promoter are discussed.
1396594	A triplet of adjacent, highly similar GT motifs in the phyA promoter of rice functions to support maximal expression of this gene. We have obtained a recombinant clone that encodes a full-length nuclear protein, designated GT-2, which binds specifically to these target sequences. This novel protein contains acidic, basic and proline- + glutamine-rich regions, as well as two autonomous DNA-binding domains, one NH2-terminal and the other COOH-terminal, that discriminate with high resolution between the three GT motifs. A duplicated sequence of 75 amino acids, present once in each DNA-binding domain, appears likely to mediate DNA target element recognition. Each copy of this duplicated protein sequence is predicted to form three amphipathic alpha-helices separated from each other by two short loops. The absence of sequence similarity to other known proteins suggests that this predicted structural unit, which we term the trihelix motif, might be representative of a new class of DNA-binding proteins.
14513364	The availability of huge amounts of rice genome sequence now permits large-scale analysis of the structure and molecular characteristics of the previously identified transposase-encoding Rim2 (also called Hipa) element, which is transcriptionally activated by infection with the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea and by treatment with the corresponding fungal elicitor. Based on genomic cloning and data mining from 230 Mb of rice genome sequence, 347 Rim2 elements, with an average size of 5.8 kb, were identified. This indicates that an estimated total of 600-700 Rim2 elements are present in the whole genome. Rim2 insertions occur non-randomly on the chromosomes, as visualized by fluorescence in situ hybridization. The elements harbor 16-bp terminal inverted repeats with the core sequence CACTG, 16-bp sub-terminal repeats, internal variable regions, 3-bp target sequence duplications in the flanking regions, and genes coding for Rim2 proteins (the putative transposase) and hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins. High levels of insertion into genic regions are observed for members of this family, and the transposition history of the family can be deduced from the high level of shared sequences and analysis of repeat target sites of the elements. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that the putative RIM2 proteins fall into a subgroup distinct from the TNP2-like subgroup of transposases. Southern hybridization with genomic DNA from monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants demonstrates that the RIM2-coding sequence is unique to the Oryza genome. Our results demonstrate that the Rim2 elements from rice belong to a distinct superfamily of CACTA-like elements with evolutionary diversity.
14523518	The rice gene, Xa21, confers resistance to diverse races of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) and encodes a receptor-like kinase with leucine-rich repeats in the extra-cellular domain. To identify genes essential for the function of the Xa21 gene, 4,500 IRBB21 (Xa21 isogenic line in IR24 background) mutants, induced by diepoxybutane and fast neutrons, were screened against Philippine race six (PR6) Xoo for a change from resistance to susceptibility. From two greenhouse screens, 23 mutants were identified that had changed from resistant to fully (6) or partially (17) susceptible to PR6. All fully susceptible mutants carried rearrangements at the Xa21 locus as detected by PCR and Southern hybridization. For the partially susceptible mutants, no changes were detected at the Xa21 locus based on Southern and PCR analyses. However, two of these mutants were confirmed via genetic analysis to have mutations at the Xa21 locus. Partially susceptible mutants exhibited variation in level of susceptibility to different Xoo strains, suggesting that they may carry different mutations required for the Xa21-mediated resistance. The mutants identified in this study provide useful materials for dissecting the Xa21-mediated resistance pathway in rice.
14673787	We used two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) and other proteomic approaches to identify proteins expressed in suspension-cultured rice cells in response to the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea. Proteins were extracted from suspension-cultured cells at 24 and 48 h after rice blast fungus inoculation or treatment with elicitor or other signal molecules such as jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid, and H(2)O(2). The proteins were then polyethylene glycol fractionated before separation by 2-DE. Fourteen protein spots were induced or increased by the treatments, which we analyzed by N-terminal or internal amino acid sequencing. Twelve proteins from six different genes were identified. Rice pathogen-related protein class 10 (OsPR-10), isoflavone reductase like protein, beta-glucosidase, and putative receptor-like protein kinase were among those induced by rice blast fungus; these have not previously been reported in suspension-cultured rice cells. Six isoforms of probenazole-inducible protein (PBZ1) and two isoforms of salt-induced protein (SalT) that responded to blast fungus, elicitor, and JA were also resolved on a 2-DE gel and identified by proteome analysis. The expression level of these induced proteins both in suspension-cultured cells and in leaves of whole plants was analyzed by Western blot. PBZ1, OsPR-10, and SalT proteins from incompatible reactions were induced earlier and to a greater extent than those in compatible reactions. Proteome analysis can thus distinguish differences in the timing and amount of protein expression induced by pathogens and other signal molecules in incompatible and compatible interactions.
14675427	We have isolated and characterized a cDNA encoding a novel diterpene cyclase, OsDTC1, from suspension-cultured rice cells treated with a chitin elicitor. OsDTC1 functions as ent-cassa-12,15-diene synthase, which is considered to play a key role in the biosynthesis of (-)-phytocassanes recently isolated as rice diterpenoid phytoalexins. The expression of OsDTC1 mRNA was also confirmed in ultraviolet (UV)-irradiated rice leaves. In addition, we identified ent-cassa-12,15-diene, a putative diterpene hydrocarbon precursor of (-)-phytocassanes, as an endogenous compound in the chitin-elicited suspension-cultured rice cells and the UV-irradiated rice leaves. The OsDTC1 cDNA isolated here will be a useful tool to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of the biosynthesis of (-)-phytocassanes in rice.
14680959	The SALT protein is a 14.5 kDa mannose-binding lectin, originally described as preferentially expressed in rice plant roots in response to NaCl stress. Recombinant SALT lectin was produced in Escherichia coli from a cDNA clone encoding protein. After isopropyl-beta-d-thiogalactopyranoside induction, the expression level achieved was 23% of the soluble protein. The recombinant agglutinin was purified by a single-step process by dialyses against a high concentrated salt solution. After purification, hemagglutination assays of rabbit erythrocytes revealed that the recombinant SALT protein is a potent agglutinin (0.078 microg ml(-1) minimal concentration). The purified recombinant lectin was also used for comparative estimation of native protein amounts in protein extracts from rice plants by Western blot assay.
14688295	GAMYB was first isolated as a positive transcriptional regulator of gibberellin (GA)-dependent alpha-amylase expression in barley aleurone cells, and its molecular and biochemical properties have been well characterized. However, the role of GAMYB elsewhere in the plant is not well understood. To investigate the molecular function of GAMYB outside of the aleurone cells, we isolated loss-of-function mutants from a panel of rice mutants produced by the insertion of a retrotransposon, Tos17. Through PCR screening using primers for rice GAMYB (OsGAMYB) and Tos17, we isolated three independent mutant alleles that contained Tos17 inserted in the exon region. No alpha-amylase expression in the endosperm was induced in these mutants in response to GA treatment, indicating that the Tos17 insertion had knocked out OsGAMYB function. We found no significant defects in the growth and development of the mutants at the vegetative stage. After the phase transition to the reproductive stage, however, shortened internodes and defects in floral organ development, especially a defect in pollen development, were observed. On the other hand, no difference was detected in flowering time. High-level OsGAMYB expression was detected in the aleurone cells, inflorescence shoot apical region, stamen primordia, and tapetum cells of the anther, but only low-level expression occurred in organs at the vegetative stage or in the elongating stem. These results demonstrate that, in addition to its role in the induction of alpha-amylase in aleurone, OsGAMYB also is important for floral organ development and essential for pollen development.
14701926	The LFY/FLO genes encode plant-specific transcription factors and play major roles in the reproductive transition as well as floral development. In this study, we reconstructed the phylogenetic tree of the 49 LFY/FLO homologs from various plant species. The tree clearly shows that the LFY/FLO genes from the eudicots and monocots formed the two monophyletic clusters with very high bootstrap probabilities, respectively. Furthermore, grass LFY/FLO genes have experienced significant acceleration of amino acid replacement rate compared with the eudicot homolog. To test whether grass LFY/FLO genes have a conserved function with those of eudicots, we introduced RFL, a rice LFY homolog, into the Arabidopsis lfy mutant. The RFL gene driven by LFY promoter partially rescued the lfy mutation, suggesting that the functions of LFY and RFL partly overlap. Interestingly, the RFL but not LFY, strongly activated the expression of AP1 and AG, the downstream targets of LFY, even in the vegetative tissues. The LFY::RFL transgenic Arabidopsis plants exhibited abnormal patterns of development such as leaf curling, bushy appearance and the transformation of ovules into carpels. All of the results indicate that both the partial conservation and divergence of LFY function between rice and Arabidopsis.
14756760	Rice bacterial blight, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), is one of the most serious rice diseases worldwide. A rice gene, Xa26, conferring resistance against Xoo at both seedling and adult stages was isolated by map-based cloning strategies from the rice cultivar Minghui 63. Xa26 belongs to a multigene family consisting of four members. It encodes a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) receptor kinase-like protein and is constitutively expressed. Sequence analysis revealed that IRBB3 and Zhachanglong lines that are resistant to a broad range of Xoo strains, also carry Xa26. However, significant difference in lesion length was observed among these lines after inoculation with a set of Xoo strains. Moreover, transgenic plants carrying Xa26 showed enhanced resistance compared with the donor line of the gene in both seedling and adult stages. These results suggest that the resistance conferred by Xa26 is influenced by the genetic background.
1511747	A 20 kDa bifunctional inhibitor of the microbial proteinase, subtilisin, and the alpha-amylase from the larvae of the red flour beetle (Tribolium castaneum) was purified from bran of rice seeds by saline extraction, precipitation with ammonium sulphate, ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-Cellulose and Toyopearl CM-650, and preparative HPLC on Vydac C18. The complete primary structure was determined by automatic degradation of the intact, reduced and S-alkylated protein, and by manual DABITC/PITC micro-sequencing of peptides obtained from the protein following separate enzymic digestions with trypsin, pepsin, chymotrypsin, elastase and the protease from S. aureus V8. The protein sequence, which contained 176 residues, showed strong homology with similar bifunctional inhibitors previously isolated from wheat and barley which are related to the Kunitz family of proteinase inhibitors from legume seeds.
15195942	Innate immunity to microorganisms relies on the specific sensing of pathogen-associated molecules by host recognition receptors. Whereas studies in animals have largely focused on the recognition of extracellular pathogen-associated molecules by the TLR (toll-like receptor) superfamily, few studies have been carried out in plants, and it is not understood how these molecules are secreted or modified. The rice Xa21 gene encodes a receptor-like kinase that provides immunity against strains of the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae carrying AvrXa21 activity. We identified four X. oryzae pv. oryzae genes that are required for AvrXa21 activity. raxA, raxB, and raxC encode proteins with similarity to a membrane fusion protein, an ATP-binding cassette transporter, and an outer membrane protein, respectively, of bacterial type I secretion systems. The fourth gene, raxST, encodes a sulfotransferase-like protein. Sequence analysis of three naturally occurring X. oryzae pv. oryzae strains no longer recognized by Xa21 revealed alterations in the raxST and raxA genes. The raxC gene complemented an Escherichia coli tolC mutant for secretion of a double glycine-leader peptide confirming the function of raxC in type I secretion. These results indicate that bacterial type I secretion is necessary for Xa21-mediated recognition and immunity and further suggest that type I secretion and modification of pathogen-associated molecules play an important role in triggering the innate immune response in rice.
15195943	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight, one of the most serious diseases in rice. X. oryzae pv. oryzae Philippine race 6 (PR6) strains are unable to establish infection in rice lines expressing the resistance gene Xa21. Although the pathogen-associated molecule that triggers the Xa21-mediated defense response (AvrXa21) is unknown, six rax (required for AvrXa21 activity) genes encoding proteins involved in sulfur metabolism and Type I secretion were recently identified. Here, we report on the identification of two additional rax genes, raxR and raxH, which encode a response regulator and a histidine protein kinase of two-component regulatory systems, respectively. Null mutants of PR6 strain PXO99 that are impaired in either raxR, raxH, or both cause lesions significantly longer and grow to significantly higher levels than does the wild-type strain in Xa21-rice leaves. Both raxR and raxH mutants are complemented to wild-type levels of AvrXa21 activity by introduction of expression vectors carrying raxR and raxH, respectively. These null mutants do not affect AvrXa7 and AvrXa10 activities, as observed in inoculation experiments with Xa7- and Xa10-rice lines. Western blot and raxR/gfp promoter-reporter analyses confirmed RaxR expression in X. oryzae pv. oryzae. The results of promoter-reporter studies also suggest that the previously identified raxSTAB operon is a target for RaxH/RaxR regulation. Characterization of the RaxH/RaxR system provides new opportunities for understanding the specificity of the X. oryzae pv. oryzae-Xa21 interaction and may contribute to the identification of AvrXa21.
1531030
15478215	Proteomic approaches using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) were adopted to identify proteins from rice leaf that are differentially expressed in response to the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea. Microscopic observation of inoculated leaf with M. grisea revealed that callose deposition and hypersensitive response was clearly visible in incompatible interactions but excessive invading hypha with branches were evident in compatible interactions. Proteins were extracted from leaves 24, 48, and 72 hours after rice blast fungus inoculation. Eight proteins resolved on the 2-DE gels were induced or increased in the inoculated leaf. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight analysis of these differentially displayed proteins showed them to be two receptor-like protein kinases (RLK), two beta-1.3-glucanases (Glu1, Glu2), thaumatin-like protein (TLP), peroxidase (POX 22.3), probenazole-inducible protein (PBZ1), and rice pathogenesis-related 10 (OsPR-10). Of these proteins, RLK, TLP, PBZ, and OsPR-10 proteins were induced more in the incompatible interactions than in compatible ones. A phytohormone, jasmonic acid also induced all eight proteins in leaves. To confirm whether the expression profile is equal to the 2-DE data, seven cDNA clones were used as probes in Northern hybridization experiments using total RNA from leaf tissues inoculated with incompatible and compatible rice blast fungal races. The genes encoding POX22.3, Glu1, Glu2, TLP, OsRLK, PBZ1, and OsPR-10 were activated in inoculated leaves, with TLP, OsRLK, PBZ1, and OsPR-10 being expressed earlier and more in incompatible than in compatible interactions. These results suggest that early and high induction of these genes may provide host plants with leading edges to defend themselves. The localization of two rice PR-10 proteins, PBZ1 and OsPR-10, was further examined by immunohistochemical analysis. PBZ1 accumulated highly in mesophyll cells under the attachment site of the appressorium. In contrast, OsPR-10 expression was mainly localized to vascular tissue.
15541369	Differential screening of a cDNA library constructed using poly(A)(+) RNA from suspension-cultured rice cells treated with jasmonic acid (JA) for 1/2h yielded a cDNA of a gene tentatively named RERJ1 that is upregulated in response to exogenous JA. Northern blot analysis indicated that the RERJ1 mRNA levels peaked at 1/2-1h after the addition of jasmonic acid and then decreased gradually. RERJ1 encodes a transcriptional regulator with a basic helix-loop-helix motif. The phenotypes of transgenic rice plants overexpressing sense or antisense RERJ1 mRNA demonstrated that RERJ1 is involved in the growth inhibition of rice shoots caused by JA. Other biological functions of RERJ1 are discussed from an evolutionary standpoint.
15599752	We introduced the rice chitinase (Cht-2; RCC2) gene into calli of Italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.), with a hygromycin phosphotransferase (HPT) gene as a selectable marker, by particle bombardment. Hygromycin-resistant calli were selected and transferred to regeneration medium for shoot formation. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis revealed regenerants containing the HPT gene. The RCC2 gene was detected in 65.5% of those regenerants. Southern hybridization detected both HPT and RCC2 genes and indicated that the transgenic plants were independently transformed. Expression of the RCC2 gene in the transgenic plants was confirmed by Northern hybridization, reverse transcription-PCR and Western blotting. Bioassay of detached leaves indicated increased resistance to crown rust (Puccinia coronata) in transgenic plants, which exhibited higher chitinase activity than a nontransgenic plant.
15604699	Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) play an important role in rice signal transduction, but the precise role of each individual CDPK is still largely unknown. Recently, a full-length cDNA encoding OsCDPK13 from rice seedling was isolated. To characterize the function of OsCDPK13, its responses to various stresses and hormones were analyzed in this study. OsCDPK13 accumulated in 2-week-old leaf sheath and callus, and became phosphorylated in response to cold and gibberellin (GA). OsCDPK13 gene expression and protein accumulation were up-regulated in response to GA3 treatment, but suppressed in response to abscisic acid and brassinolide. Antisense OsCDPK13 transgenic rice lines were shorter than the vector control lines, and the expression of OsCDPK13 was lower in dwarf mutants of rice than in wild type. Furthermore, OsCDPK13 gene expression and protein accumulation were enhanced in response to cold, but suppressed under salt and drought stresses. Sense OsCDPK13 transgenic rice lines had higher recovery rates after cold stress than vector control rice. The expression of OsCDPK13 was stronger in cold-tolerant rice varieties than in cold-sensitive ones. The results suggest that OsCDPK13 might be an important signaling component in the response of rice to GA and cold stress.
15612484	To observe the subchronic toxic effects of transgenic rice on rats. Based on gender and weight, 144 Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: transgenic rice group, nontransgenic rice group and AIN93G normal control group. They were fed for 90 days. Rats in transgenic rice group were fed with 73.2% transgenic rice. Rats in non-transgenic rice group were fed with 73.7% non-transgenic rice. Indicators were the following: body weight, body length, blood routine test, blood biochemistry test, organ weight, bone density and organ pathological examination. Compared with non-transgenic rice group, glucose was lower while cholesterol and HDLD concentration were higher in transgenic rice group in mid-experiment. But all these differences disappeared at the end of experiment. ALT activity in transgenic rice were higher than that in non-transgenic rice group. Compared with AIN93G normal control group, body weight, TG, HDLD were higher and glucose was lower in transgenic rice group in mid-experiment and all these differences disappeared at the end of the experiment. No abnormality was found with the pathological examination on brain, heart, spleen, lung, kidney, stomach, duodenum, adrenal gland, spermary and ovary. There were not enough evidences to confirm that transgenic rice had adverse effects on the rat.
15695464	Non-symbiotic hemoglobins (ns-Hbs) are found in all plants, although their physiological function remains to be determined. The present study was undertaken to explore the mode of induction of ns-Hb genes by metabolites of nitrate assimilation using cultured rice (Oryza sativa L.) cells. Two class-1 ns-Hb genes, ORYsa GLB1a and ORYsa GLB1b, were strongly induced by nitrate, nitrite and nitric oxide (NO) donors, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and sodium nitroprusside. The rapid and transient accumulation of ORYsa GLB1a and ORYsa GLB1b transcripts in response to nitrate, nitrite and NO donors was similar to that of nia1, which encodes NADH-nitrate reductase (NR), although repression by glutamine and asparagines was significant only for nia1. In the mutants defective in NR mRNA expression, nitrate, nitrite and NO donors failed to induce not only nia1 but also ORYsa GLB1a and ORYsa GLB1b transcripts, indicating that the induction of ns-Hb genes is closely associated with that of the NR gene. Although the kinetics of induction by nitrate, nitrite and NO donors are similar for the two ns-Hb genes, an inhibitor study demonstrated that de novo synthesis of the protein in cytoplasm is essential for inducing ORYsa GLB1b. In contrast, ORYsa GLB1a, like nia1, can be induced in the primary response to these signals without de novo protein synthesis. The role of nitrate, nitrite and NO in the induction of ns-Hb gene expression in rice cells and the possible cellar function of ns-Hbs were discussed in relation to nitrate reduction pathways.
1571109	Two mouse monoclonal antibodies (IgM) were produced against the N-acetylglucosamine-specific rice bran lectin. It was difficult to establish antibody-producing hybrids when soluble rice lectin was used for immunization. Therefore a complex of rice lectin and chitin, a water-insoluble polymer of N-acetylglucosamine, was used as immunogen. Antibody reactivity against Gramineae lectins from barley, rice, rye and wheat (wheat germ agglutinin) was tested in ELISA and two (137,E-1 and 140,B-3) were found to be specific for rice lectin. Gramineae lectins were separated by sodium dodecyl-sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and electroblotted to nitrocellulose papers. Analyses showed that the antibodies reacted strongly with non-reduced rice lectin, whereas only weak staining was seen with the other lectins. The binding was abolished after treatment with 2-mercaptoethanol suggesting that disulphide bond tertiary structures were necessary for epitope integrity.
15766385	Transposons constitute the major fractions of repetitive sequences in eukaryotes, and have been crucial in the shaping of current genomes. Transposons are generally divided into two classes according to the mechanism underlying their transposition: RNA intermediate class 1 and DNA intermediate class 2. CACTA is a class 2 transposon superfamily, which is found exclusively in plants. As some transposons, including the CACTA superfamily, are highly abundant in plant species, and their nucleotide sequences are highly conserved within a family, they can be utilized as genetic markers, using a slightly modified version of the conventional AFLP protocol. Rim2 /Hipa is a CACTA transposon family having 16 bp consensus TIR sequences to be present in high copy numbers in rice genome. This research was carried out in order to develop a Rim2/Hipa CACTA-AFLP or Rim2/Hipa CACTA-TD (transposon display, hereafter Rim2/Hipa-TD) protocol for the study of genetic markers in map construction and the study of genetic diversity in rice. Rim2/Hipa-TD generated ample polymorphic profiles among the different rice accessions, and the amplification profiles were highly reproducible between different thermocyclers and Taq polymerases. These amplification profiles allowed for clear distinction between two different ecotypes, Japonica and Indica, of Oryza sativa. In the analysis of RIL populations, the Rim2/Hipa-TD markers were found to be segregated largely in a dominant manner, although in a few cases, non-parental bands were observed in the segregating populations. Upon linkage analysis, the Rim2/Hipa-TD markers were found to be distributed in the regions proximal to the centromeres of the chromosomes. The distribution of the Rim2/Hipa CACTA elements was surveyed in 15 different Oryza species via Rim2/Hipa-TD. While Rim2/Hipa-TD yielded ample amplification profiles between 100 to 700 bp in the AA diploid Oryza species, other species having BB, CC, EE, BBCC and CCDD, profiles demonstrated that most of the amplified fragments were larger than 400 bp, and that our methods were insufficient to clearly distinguish between these fragments. However, the overall amplification profiles between species in the Oryza genus were fully distinct. Phenetic relationships among the AA diploid Oryza species, as evidenced by the Rim2/Hipa-TD markers, were matched with their geographical distributions. The abundance of the Rim2/Hipa TIR sequences is very informative since the Rim2/Hipa-TD produced high polymorphic profiles with ample reproducibility within a species as well as between species in the Oryza genus. Therefore, Rim2/Hipa-TD markers can be useful in the development of high-density of genetic map around the centromeric regions. Rim2/Hipa-TD may also prove useful in evaluations of genetic variation and species relationships in the Oryza species.
15821984	Fructose-bisphosphate aldolase is a glycolytic enzyme whose activity increases in rice roots treated with gibberellin (GA). To investigate the relationship between aldolase and root growth, GA-induced root aldolase was characterized. GA3 promoted an increase in aldolase accumulation when 0.1 microM GA3 was added exogenously to rice roots. Aldolase accumulated abundantly in roots, especially in the apical region. To examine the effect of aldolase function on root growth, transgenic rice plants expressing antisense aldolase were constructed. Root growth of aldolase-antisense transgenic rice was repressed compared with that of the vector control transgenic rice. Although aldolase activity increased by 25% in vector control rice roots treated with 0.1 microM GA3, FBPA activity increased very little by 0.1 microM GA3 treatment in the root of aldolase-antisense transgenic rice. Furthermore, aldolase co-immunoprecipitated with antibodies against vacuolar H+ -ATPase in rice roots. In the root of OsCDPK13-antisense transgenic rice, aldolase did not accumulate even after treatment with GA3. These results suggest that the activation of glycolytic pathway function accelerates root growth and that GA3-induced root aldolase may be modulated through OsCDPK13. Aldolase physically associates with vacuolar H-ATPase in roots and may regulate the vacuolar H-ATPase mediated control of cell elongation that determines root length.
15914931	The jasmonic acid (JA)-responsive gene RERJ1 isolated from suspension-cultured rice cells encodes a transcription factor with a basic helix-loop-helix motif. In this study, we found that RERJ1 is also expressed in rice plants in response to JA, and that its expression in rice leaves is up-regulated by exposure to wounding and drought stress. It is also suggested that JA but not abscisic acid is involved in the up-regulation of RERJ1 expression caused by wounding and drought stress.
15964905	The primary vascular tissues of plants differentiate from a single precursor tissue, the procambium. The role of upstream regulatory sequences in the transcriptional control of early vascular-specific gene expression is largely unknown. The onset of expression of the rice homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) gene Oshox1 marks procambial cells that have acquired their distinctive anatomical features but do not yet display any overt signs of terminal vascular differentiation. The expression pattern of Oshox1 in rice appears to be mainly controlled by the activity of the 1.6 kb upstream promoter region. Here, we show that the Oshox1 promoter directs vascular, auxin- and sucrose-responsive reporter gene expression in Arabidopsis plants in a fashion comparable with that in rice. This is the case not only during normal development but also upon experimental manipulation, suggesting that the cis-acting regulatory elements that are instrumental in Oshox1 expression pattern are conserved between rice and Arabidopsis. Finally, through analysis of reporter gene expression profiles conferred by progressive 5' deletions of the Oshox1 promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis, we have identified upstream regulatory regions required for auxin and sucrose inducibility, and for cell type-, tissue- and organ-specific aspects of Oshox1 expression. Our study suggests that Oshox1 embryonic vascular expression is mainly achieved through suppression of expression in non-vascular tissues.
16021334	Calcineurin is a Ca2+- and calmodulin-dependent serine/threonine phosphatase and has multiple functions in animal cells including regulating ionic homeostasis. We generated transgenic rice plants that not only expressed a truncated form of the catalytic subunit of mouse calcineurin, but also were able to grow and fertilize normally in the field. Notably, the expression of the mouse calcineurin gene in rice resulted in its higher salt stress tolerance than the non-transgenic rice. Physiological studies have indicated that the root growth of transgenic plants was less inhibited than the shoot growth, and that less Na+ was accumulated in the roots of transgenic plants after a prolonged period of salt stress. These findings imply that the heterologous calcineurin plays a significant role in maintaining ionic homeostasis and the integrity of plant roots when exposed to salt. In addition, the calcineurin gene expression in the stems of transgenic plants correlated with the increased expression of the Rab16A gene that encodes a group 2-type late-embryogenesis-abundant (LEA) protein. Altogether our findings provide the first genetic and physiological evidence that expression of the mouse calcineurin protein functionally improves the salt stress tolerance of rice partly by limiting Na+ accumulation in the roots.
16051676	The rice low-temperature-induced lip19 gene encodes a 148-amino-acid basic region/leucine zipper (bZIP) protein, termed LIP19. In this study we characterized LIP19 and showed that it lacks the usual ability of bZIP proteins to homodimerize and to bind DNA, as does the Fos protein in mammals. Using a yeast two-hybrid system, the cDNA clones whose products interact with LIP19 were screened. This search revealed a clone termed OsOBF1 (Oryza sativa OBF1) that encodes a new bZIP protein (OsOBF1). This protein forms a homodimer and binds to the hexamer motif sequence (5'-ACGTCA-3'). The protein-protein interaction in homo- and hetero-combinations between LIP19 and OsOBF1 was confirmed in vitro and in planta. LIP19 and OsOBF1 most likely interact with each other more strongly than OsOBF1 interacts with itself, and the resulting heterodimer binds to the C/G hybrid sequence but not to the hexamer sequence. Whereas the expression patterns of lip19 and OsOBF1 in response to low temperatures were totally opposite, the locations of their expression were almost identical. Based upon the presented data, we propose a model describing the low-temperature signal switching mediated by LIP19 in rice.
16078740	Rice blast caused by Magnaporthe grisea is one of the most serious constraints on high productivity. Understanding the mechanism of the infection of Magnaporthe grisea and the change of gene expression after infection is useful to control blast disease in rice. This work presents the isolation of differentially expressed cDNA fragments from rice leaf induced by the inoculum suspension of Magnaporthe grisea using mRNA differential display technique. Total 87 differential expressed cDNA fragments were recoveried and reamplified. The dot-blotting results showed that 6 fragments of 81 were confirmed to be the expression induced by Magnaporthe grisea inoculum. Those fragments were then cloned into vectors for sequencing. Sequence analysis through Internet Blast searching showed that 3 fragments were novel gene fragments. One was homologous with a putative malate synthase gene on rice chromosome 4 with 78% identities of amino acid; one was highly homologous (75% identity) with rice RPR1 gene on chromosome 11, which has a conservative structure of NBS-LRR domain and may be related to signal transduction of rice defense reaction;another one was homologous with a putative thioredoxin gene on rice chromosome 6 with the identity of 72%.
16116284	Fatty acid hydroperoxide lyase (HPL), a member of cytochrome P450 (CYP74), produces aldehydes and oxo-acids involved in plant defensive reactions. In monocots, HPL that cleaves 13-hydroperoxides of fatty acids has been reported, but HPL that cleaves 9-hydroperoxides is still unknown. To find this type of HPL, in silico screening of candidate cDNA clones and subsequent functional analyses of recombinant proteins were performed. We found that AK105964 and AK107161 (Genbank accession numbers), cDNAs previously annotated as allene oxide synthase (AOS) in rice, are distinctively grouped from AOS and 13-HPL. Recombinant proteins of these cDNAs produced in Escherichia. coli cleaved both 9- and 13-hydroperoxide of linoleic and linolenic into aldehydes, while having only a trace level of AOS activity and no divinyl ether synthase activity. Hence we designated AK105964 and AK107161 OsHPL1 and OsHPL2 respectively. They are the first CYP74C family cDNAs to be found in monocots.
1617739	Southern hybridization analysis using homologous maize probes indicated that orf25 and coxIII are closely linked in the mitochondrial genome of rice (Oryza sativa) cultivar IR36. The two coding regions were found on the same 5.1 kb BamHI fragment, and this fragment was cloned, mapped and partially sequenced. Using probes for each gene derived from the rice clone, a 2.4 kb dicistronic mRNA transcript was found containing both orf25 and coxIII coding regions. Multiple 5' ends were identified by primer extension analysis and a double stem/loop structure was mapped to the 3' end. The orf25 coding region shares greater than 85% identity with orf25 sequences from maize, tobacco and wheat, suggesting that orf25 may code for a conserved protein product.
16256063	We have cloned a novel diterpene synthase (OsKSL11) from rice that produces stemod-13(17)-ene from syn-copalyl diphosphate. Notably, this gene sequence was not predicted from the extensive sequence information available for rice, nor, despite extensive phytochemical investigations, has this diterpene or any derived natural product previously been reported in rice plants. OsKSL11 represents the first identified stemodene synthase, which catalyzes the committed step in biosynthesis of the stemodane family of diterpenoid natural products, some of which possess antiviral activity. In addition, OsKSL11 is highly homologous to the mechanistically similar stemarene synthase recently identified from rice, making this pair of diterpene cyclases an excellent model system for investigating the enzymatic determinants for differential product outcome. The unexpected nature of this cyclase and its product parallels recent observations of previously unrecognized natural products metabolism in Arabidopsis thaliana, suggesting that many, if not all, plant species will prove to have extensive biosynthetic capacity.
16313672	The plant peroxisomal multifunctional protein (MFP) possesses up to four enzymatic activities that are involved in catalyzing different reactions of fatty acid beta-oxidation in the peroxisome matrix. In addition to these peroxisomal activities, in vitro assays revealed that rice MFP possesses microtubule- and RNA-binding activities suggesting that this protein also has important functions in the cytosol. We demonstrate that MFP is an authentic microtubule-binding protein, as it localized to the cortical microtubule array in vivo, in addition to its expected targeting to the peroxisome matrix. MFP does not, however, interact with the three mitotic microtubule arrays. Microtubule co-sedimentation assays of truncated versions of MFP revealed that multiple microtubule-binding domains are present on the MFP polypeptide. This indicates that these regions function together to achieve high-affinity binding of the full-length protein. Real-time imaging of a transiently expressed green fluorescent protein-MFP chimera in living plant cells illustrated that a dynamic, spatial interaction exits between peroxisomes and cortical microtubules as peroxisomes move along actin filaments or oscillate at fixed locations. Plant MFP is associated with the cortical microtubule array, in addition to its expected localization in the peroxisome. This observation, coupled with apparent interactions that frequently occur between microtubules and peroxisomes in the cell cortex, supports the hypothesis that MFP is concentrated on microtubules in order to facilitate the regulated import of MFP into peroxisomes.
16404154	As a first step towards identifying genes involving in the signal transduction pathways mediating rice blast resistance, we isolated 3 mutants lines that showed enhanced susceptibility to rice blast KJ105 (91-033) from a T-DNA insertion library of the japonica rice cultivar, Hwayeong. Since none of the susceptible phenotypes co-segregated with the T-DNA insertion we adapted a map-based cloning strategy to isolate the gene(s) responsible for the enhanced susceptibility of the Hwayeong mutants. A genetic mapping population was produced by crossing the resistant wild type Hwayeong with the susceptible cultivar, Nagdong. Chi-square analysis of the F2 segregating population indicated that resistance in Hwayeong was controlled by a single major gene that we tentatively named Pi-hy. Randomly selected susceptible plants in the F2 population were used to build an initial map of Pi-hy. The SSLP marker RM2265 on chromosome 2 was closely linked to resistance. High resolution mapping using 105 F2 plants revealed that the resistance gene was tightly linked, or identical, to Pib, a resistance gene with a nucleotide binding sequence and leucine-rich repeats (NB-LRR) previously isolated. Sequence analysis of the Pib locus amplified from three susceptible mutants revealed lesions within this gene, demonstrating that the Pi-hy gene is Pib. The Pib mutations in 1D-22-10-13, 1D-54-16-8, and 1C-143-16-1 were, respectively, a missense mutation in the conserved NB domain 3, a nonsense mutation in the 5th LRR, and a nonsense mutation in the C terminus following the LRRs that causes a small deletion of the C terminus. These findings provide evidence that NB domain 3 and the C terminus are required for full activity of the plant R gene. They also suggest that alterations of the resistance gene can cause major differences in pathogen specificity by affecting interactions with an avirulence factor.
16460508	The rice gene Xa21 confers resistance against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Xa21 encodes a receptor-like kinase (XA21). We demonstrate that XA21 autophosphorylates residues Ser686, Thr688 and Ser689 in vitro. Substitution of these residues with alanines did not affect the autophosphorylation function of this kinase, but specifically destabilized the resistance protein in vitro and in vivo. Plants carrying these same substitutions in XA21 were compromised in their resistance to the normally avirulent Xoo Philippine race 6. Additionally, we show that wild-type XA21 and the kinase-dead mutant with the invariable Lys736 residue mutated to glutamic acid were also proteolytically degraded in protein extracts. Finally, we show a correlation between the in vitro degradation and in vivo instability of the proteins. We propose that autophosphorylation of Ser686, Thr688 and Ser689 functions to stabilize XA21 against the developmentally controlled proteolytic activity.
16461382	The rice (Oryza sativa) Xa26 gene, which confers resistance to bacterial blight disease and encodes a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) receptor kinase, resides at a locus clustered with tandem homologous genes. To investigate the evolution of this family, four haplotypes from the two subspecies of rice, indica and japonica, were analyzed. Comparative sequence analysis of 34 genes of 10 types of paralogs of the family revealed haplotype polymorphisms and pronounced paralog diversity. The orthologs in different haplotypes were more similar than the paralogs in the same haplotype. At least five types of paralogs were formed before the separation of indica and japonica subspecies. Only 7% of amino acid sites were detected to be under positive selection, which occurred in the extracytoplasmic domain. Approximately 74% of the positively selected sites were solvent-exposed amino acid residues of the LRR domain that have been proposed to be involved in pathogen recognition, and 73% of the hypervariable sites detected in the LRR domain were subject to positive selection. The family is formed by tandem duplication followed by diversification through recombination, deletion, and point mutation. Most variation among genes in the family is caused by point mutations and positive selection.
16487079	To gain an enhanced understanding of the mechanism by which gibberellins (GAs) regulate the growth and development of plants, it is necessary to identify proteins regulated by GA. Proteome analysis techniques have been applied as a direct, effective, and reliable tool in differential protein expressions. In previous studies, sixteen proteins showed differences in accumulation levels as a result of treatment with GA(3), uniconazole, or abscisic acid (ABA), and/or the differences between the GA-deficient semi-dwarf mutant, Tan-ginbozu, and normal cultivars. Among these proteins, aldolase increased in roots treated with GA(3), was present at low levels in Tan-ginbozu roots, and decreased in roots treated with uniconazole or ABA. In a root elongation assay, the growth of aldolase-antisense transgenic rice was half of that of vector control transgenic rice. These results indicate that increases in aldolase activity stimulate the glycolytic pathway and may play an important role in the GA-induced growth of roots. In this review, we discuss the relationship among GA, aldolase, and root growth.
16511272	Lectins with sugar-binding specificity are widely distributed in higher plants and various other species. The expression of rice lectin from Oryza sativa is up-regulated in the growing coleoptile when anaerobic stress persists. A rice lectin of molecular weight 15.2 kDa has been crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. From the diffraction of the lectin crystals at 1.93 A resolution, the unit cell belongs to space group P3(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 98.58, b = 98.58, c = 44.72 A. Preliminary analysis indicates that there are two lectin molecules in an asymmetric unit with a large solvent content, 70.1%.
16607944	The dominant gene Xa21 with broad-spectrum and high resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) was transferred into C418, an important restorer line of japonica hybrid rice in China using double right-border (DRB) T-DNA binary vector through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. 17 transgenic lines were Xa21-positive with high resistance to the race P6 of Xoo through PCR analysis and resistance identification, among the total 27 independent primary transformants (T0) obtained. The subsequent analysis of the T1 progenies of these 17 T0 lines through PCR-assisted selection and resistance investigation showed that four Xa21 transgenic T0 lines could produce selectable marker-free (SMF) progenies. The frequency of primary transformants producing SMF progenies was 15%. In addition, PCR analysis also revealed these SMF progenies did not contain vector backbone sequence, and they were named as SMF and vector backbone sequence-free (SMF-VBSF) Xa21 transgenic plants. The further molecular and phenotypic analysis of the T2 and T3 progenies testified the homozygous SMF-VBSF Xa21 transgenic plants were obtained with high resistance to Xoo.
16717423	The complete nucleotide sequences of the cDNA and its gene that encode a bifunctional alpha-amylase/subtilisin inhibitor of rice (Oryza sativa L.) (RASI) were analyzed. RASI cDNA (939 bp) encoded a 200-residue polypeptide with a molecular mass of 21,417 Da, including a signal peptide of 22 amino acids. Sequence comparison and phylogenetic analysis showed that RASI is closely related to alpha-amylase/subtilisin inhibitors from barley and wheat. RASI was found to be expressed only in seeds, suggesting that it has a seed-specific function. A coding region of RASI cDNA without the signal peptide was introduced into Escherichia coli and was expressed as a His-tagged protein. Recombinant RASI was purified to homogeneity in a single step by Ni-chelating affinity column chromatography and characterized to elucidate the target enzyme. The recombinant inhibitor had strong inhibitory activity toward subtilisin, with an equimolar relationship, comparable with that of native RASI, and weak inhibitory activity toward some microbial alpha-amylases, but not toward animal or insect alpha-amylases. These results suggest that RASI might function in the defense of the seed against microorganisms.
16755133	CACTA is a class 2 transposon, that is very abundantly present in plant genomes. Using Rim2/Hipa CACTA transposon display (hereafter Rim2/Hipa-TD), we analyzed several A-genome diploid Oryza species that have a high distribution of the CACTA motifs. High levels of polymorphism were detected within and between the Oryza species. The African taxa, O. glaberrima and O. barthii, both showed lower levels of polymorphism than the Asian taxa, O. sativa, O. rufipogon, and O. nivara. However, O. longistaminata, another African taxon, showed levels of polymorphism that were similar to the Asian taxa. The Latin American taxon, O. glumaepatula, and the Australian taxon, O. meridionalis, exhibited intermediate levels of polymorphism between those of the Asian and African taxa. The lowest level of polymorphism was observed in O. glaberrima (32.1%) and the highest level of polymorphism was observed in O. rufipogon (95.7%). The phylogenetic tree revealed three major groups at the genetic similarity level of 0.409. The first group consisted of three Asian taxa, O. sativa, O. rufipogon and O. nivara. The second group consisted of three African taxa, O. glaberrima, O. barthii, O. longistaminata, and an American taxon, O. glumaepatula. The third group contained an Australian taxon, O. meridionalis. The clustering patterns of these species matched well with their geographical origins. Rim2/Hipa-TD appears to be a useful marker system for studying the genetic diversity and species relationships among the AA diploid Oryza species.
16786460
16798940	The Dof (DNA binding with one finger) transcriptional activator rice (Oryza sativa) prolamin box binding factor (RPBF), which is involved in gene regulation of rice seed storage proteins, has been isolated from rice cDNA expressed sequence tag clones containing the conserved Dof. RPBF is found as a single gene per haploid genome. Comparison of RPBF genomic and cDNA sequences revealed that the genomic copy is interrupted by one long intron of 1,892 bp in the 5' noncoding region. We demonstrated by transient expression in rice callus protoplasts that the isolated RPBF trans-activated several storage protein genes via an AAAG target sequence located within their promoters, and with methylation interference experiments the additional AAAG-like sequences in promoters of genes expressed in maturing seeds were recognized by the RPBF protein. Binding was sequence specific, since mutation of the AAAG motif or its derivatives decreased both binding and trans-activation by RPBF. Synergism between RPBF and RISBZ1 recognizing the GCN4 motif [TGA(G/C)TCA] was observed in the expression of many storage protein genes. Overexpression of both transcription factors gave rise to much higher levels of expression than the sum of individual activities elicited by either RPBF or RISBZ1 alone. Furthermore, mutation of recognition sites suppressed reciprocal trans-activation ability, indicating that there are mutual interactions between RISBZ1 and RPBF. The RPBF gene is predominantly expressed in maturing endosperm and coordinately expressed with seed storage protein genes, and is involved in the quantitative regulation of genes expressed in the endosperm in cooperation with RISBZ1.
16818431	A 5.7 kb putative promoter region of pib gene was isolated from the pib genomic clone and substituted for the 35S promoter upstream of gus gene in plasmid pCAMBIA1301 to construct a new plant expression vector pNAR604 (putative pib promoter-GUS + 35S-hpt). From Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and hygromycin selective culture in vitro, hygromycin resistant calli and 36 transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants were obtained. Histochemical assays of GUS activity showed that no expression was observed in the resistant calli and roots from transgenic rice if cultured under light, but after 24 h dark treatment there was strong GUS staining. Fluorimetric quantitative analysis indicated that GUS expression was organ-specific in transgenic rice. Without the dark treatment, GUS activity in roots and stems were about 7 and 3 times higher than in leaves in which GUS activity was only trace detected. After 24 h dark treatment, GUS activity in roots, stems and leaves of transgenic plants were all promoted and the largest increase was observed in leaves. Twenty-four hours after spraying with 5 mmol/L SA (Salicylic Acid) or 0.3 mol/L NaCl, GUS activity in leaves of the transgenic plants was 2.7 or 3.6 times respectively higher than untreated control. It was confirmed that an inductive promoter was involved in this 5.7 kb upstream region of pib gene, and dark, SA and NaCl treatments were inductive factors for pib promoter.
16818441	Gene Xa21 is the first disease resistance gene cloned from rice (Oryza sativa L.), which encodes a receptor-like kinase and confers broad spectrum resistance against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). In this paper, the discovery, mapping and cloning of Xa21 were reviewed briefly. The molecular mechanism of resistance and its breeding application, including biochemical properties of the kinase domain of XA21, AvrXa21 identification, the disease resistance pathway mediated by Xa21, and the mechanism of disease resistance were summarized. Future perspective on Xa21-related research is also discussed.
16861793	The mode of action of a potent elicitor, N-acetylchitooligosaccharide, in rice plants was examined. In intact seedlings, no significant uptake of the elicitor via the roots was observed within 3 h, whereas rapid uptake was observed in excised leaves. Rapid and transient expression of an elicitor-responsive gene, EL2, was induced in the leaves of intact seedlings sprayed with the elicitor or in the roots and leaves of intact seedlings by immersing roots in the elicitor solution. Histochemical analysis indicated that EL2 was expressed in cells exposed to the elicitor of root and leaves. In seedlings treated with the elicitor for 1 d or longer, hyphal growth of rice blast fungus was significantly delayed, and an accumulation of auto-fluorescence around the infection site was observed. Two defense-related genes, PR-1 and PR-10 (PBZ1), were induced in a systemic and local manner by elicitor treatment, in correlation with the induction of resistance against rice blast fungus. N-Acetylchitoheptaose did not inhibit the hyphal growth of the fungi. These results indicate the occurrence of systemic signal transmission from N-acetylchitooligosaccharide in rice plants.
16932879	Xa3-mediated resistance for rice bacterial blight, one of the most devastating rice diseases worldwide, is influenced by genetic background. Xa3 is genetically tightly linked to Xa26, another gene for bacterial blight resistance. Xa26 belongs to a clustered multigene family encoding leucine-rich repeat (LRR) receptor kinase-like proteins. To characterize Xa3, we fine mapped it using a population segregating for only one resistance gene and markers developed from Xa26 family. Genetic analysis showed that Xa3 co-segregated with the marker of Xa26 gene and segregated from the markers of other members of Xa26 family. DNA fingerprinting revealed that rice line IRBB3 carrying Xa3 had the same copy numbers of Xa26 family members as rice line Minghui 63 carrying Xa26. Phenotypic comparison showed that all the rice lines carrying either Xa3 or Xa26 developed dark brown deposition at the border between the lesion caused by incompatible-pathogen infection and health leaf tissue, while other rice lines did not show this dark brown deposition in either incompatible or compatible interactions. These results suggest that Xa3 and Xa26 is the same gene. We name it Xa3/Xa26 to indicate the relationship between the two gene symbols. The putative encoding products of Xa3/Xa26 and its susceptible allele xa3/xa26 shared 92% sequence identity. The sequence difference occurred in the LRR domains, specifically at the solvent-exposed amino acid residues, might be the major cause that differentiates the resistant and susceptible proteins.
16939657	The bZIP class Abscisic acid Responsive Element (ABRE)-binding factor, OSBZ8 (38.5 kD) has been considered to regulate ABA-mediated transcription in the suspension cultured cells of japonica rice. Still, nothing is known about the expression of OSBZ8 at protein level in vegetative tissue of salt sensitive and salt tolerant rice plants. In our previous study, Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay (EMSA) of [32P]ABRE-DNA and nuclear extracts prepared from the lamina of Pokkali rice plants has detected the presence of an ABRE-binding factor. Northern analysis has also detected salinity stress induced accumulation of transcripts for bZIP class of factor. Therefore, OSBZ8 was considered to play an important role in the regulation of transcription in the vegetative tissue of rice. The aim of this study is to find out whether OSBZ8 has any role in regulating the NaCl-stress induced gene expression in vegetative tissue and whether the expression of OSBZ8 factor directly correlates with the stress tolerance of different varieties of indica type rice. Northern analysis of total RNA from roots and lamina of salt-sensitive M-I-48 and salt-tolerant Nonabokra, when probed with the N-terminal unique region of OSBZ8 (OSBZ8p, without the highly conserved basic region), a transcript of 1.3 kb hybridized and its level was much higher in tolerant cultivar. EMSA with Em1a, the strongest ABA Responsive Element till reported from the upstream of EmBP1, and the nuclear extracts from laminar tissue of untreated and salt-treated seedlings of three salt sensitive, one moderately sensitive and two salt tolerant indica rice cultivars showed specific binding of nuclear factor to ABRE element. Intensity of binding was low and inducible in salt sensitive rice cultivars while high and constitutive in salt tolerant cultivars. EMSA with 300 bp 5'upstream region of Rab16A gene, a well known salt stress and ABA-inducible gene of rice, showed formation of two complexes, again very weak in salt sensitive and strong in salt tolerant rice cultivar. The bZIP factor OSBZ8 was found to be present in the ABRE-DNA: protein complex as shown by the supershift of the complex by the purified antiserum raised against OSBZ8p. Treatment of the seedlings with NaCl was found to enhance the complex formation, suggesting the regulation of OSBZ8 gene at both transcriptional and post-translational steps. Comparative EMSA with different varieties of rice suggests a positive correlation with the expression pattern of OSBZ8 and salt tolerance in rice cultivars.
17051650	Plants exhibit resistance against incompatible pathogens, via localized and systemic responses as part of an integrated defense mechanism. To study the compatible and incompatible interactions between rice and bacteria, a proteomic approach was applied. Rice cv. Java 14 seedlings were inoculated with compatible (Xo7435) and incompatible (T7174) races of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Cytosolic and membrane proteins were fractionated from the leaf blades and separated by 2-D PAGE. From 366 proteins analyzed, 20 were differentially expressed in response to bacterial inoculation. These proteins were categorized into classes related to energy (30%), metabolism (20%), and defense (20%). Among the 20 proteins, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase large subunit (RuBisCO LSU) was fragmented into two smaller proteins by T7174 and Xo7435 inoculation. Treatment with jasmonic acid (JA), a signaling molecule in plant defense responses, changed the level of protein accumulation for 5 of the 20 proteins. Thaumatin-like protein and probenazole-inducible protein (PBZ) were commonly up-regulated by T7174 and Xo7435 inoculation and JA treatment. These results suggest that synthesis of the defense-related thaumatin-like protein and PBZ are stimulated by JA in the defense response pathway of rice against bacterial blight.
17080612	A recessive gibberellin (GA)-insensitive dwarf mutant of rice, gibberellin-insensitive dwarf1 (gid1), has been identified, which shows a severe dwarf phenotype and contains high concentrations of endogenous GA. To elucidate the function of gid1, proteins regulated downstream of gid1 were analysed using a proteomic approach. Proteins extracted from suspension-cultured cells of gid1 and its wild type were separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE). Of a total of 962 proteins identified from the suspension-cultured cells, 16 were increased and 14 were decreased in gid1 compared with its wild type. Among the proteins hyper-accumulated in gid1 were osmotin, triosephosphate isomerase, probenazole inducible protein (PBZ1) and pathogenesis-related protein 10. Of these four genes, only the expression of PBZ1 was increased by exogenous GA3 application. Expression of this gene was also enhanced in shoots of the wild type by cold stress or by rice blast fungus infection. Under normal growth conditions, there was more PBZ1 protein in gid1 than in the wild type. In addition, gid1 showed increased tolerance to cold stress and resistance to blast fungus infection. The entcopalyl diphosphate synthase (OsCPS) genes, which encode enzymes at the branch point between GA and phytoalexin biosynthesis, were expressed differentially in gid1 relative to the wild type. Specifically, OsCPS1, which encodes an enzyme in the GA biosynthesis pathway, was down-regulated and OsCPS2 and OsCPS4, which encode enzymes in phytoalexin biosynthesis, were up-regulated in gid1. These results suggest that the expression of PBZ1 is regulated by GA signalling and stress stimuli, and that gid1 is involved in tolerance to cold stress and resistance to blast fungus.
17082309	This article provides a brief overview of some of the major concepts and molecular features of plant and animal innate immune systems. The rice pathogen recognition receptor, XA21, confers resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae strains producing the AvrXa21 elicitor. Xa21 codes for a receptor-like kinase consisting of an extracellular leucine-rich repeat domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic kinase domain. We show that AvrXa21 activity requires the presence of rax (required for AvrXa21) A, raxB, and raxC genes that encode components of a type one secretion system. In contrast, an hrpC(-) strain deficient in type three secretion maintains AvrXa21 activity. Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris can express AvrXa21 activity if raxST, encoding a putative sulfotransferase, and raxA are provided in trans. Expression of rax genes depends on population density and other functioning rax genes. This and other data suggest that the AvrXa21 pathogen-associated molecule is involved in quorum sensing. Together these data suggest that AvrXa21 represents a previously uncharacterized class of Gram-negative bacterial signaling molecules. These results from our studies of the XA21/AvrXa21 interaction call for some modifications in the way we think about innate immunity strategies.
17117160	Heterotrimeric G proteins are known to function as messengers in numerous signal transduction pathways. The null mutation of RGA (rice heterotrimeric G protein alpha subunit), which encodes the alpha subunit of heterotrimeric G protein in rice, causes severe dwarfism and reduced responsiveness to gibberellic acid in rice. However, less is known about heterotrimeric G protein in brassinosteroid (BR) signaling, one of the well-understood phytohormone pathways. In the present study, we used root elongation inhibition assay, lamina inclination assay and coleoptile elongation analysis to demonstrated reduced sensitivity of d1 mutant plants (caused by the null mutation of RGA) to 24-epibrassinolide (24-epiBL), which belongs to brassinosteroids and plays a wide variety of roles in plant growth and development. Moreover, RGA transcript level was decreased in 24-epiBL-treated seedlings in a dose-dependent manner. Our results show that RGA is involved in rice brassinosteroid response, which may be beneficial to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of G protein signaling and provide a novel perspective to understand BR signaling in higher plants.
1716496	A genomic clone isolated from rice (Oryza sativa var. IR 36) contains a gene that encodes a glycine-rich cell wall protein. This gene is a member of a multi-gene family. Two transcripts with different 5' termini are encoded by this gene and the expression of these two transcripts is differentially regulated. The amino acid sequence derived from the DNA sequence of this gene has a putative amino terminal signal peptide, and a highly repetitive structure in the putative mature protein. A model is proposed which describes the potential monomeric structure of this glycine-rich protein and how these monomers may be covalently linked to produce a network-like structure.
17172358	XA21 is a receptor-like kinase protein in rice (Oryza sativa) that confers gene-for-gene resistance to specific races of the causal agent of bacterial blight disease, Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae. We identified XA21 binding protein 3 (XB3), an E3 ubiquitin ligase, as a substrate for the XA21 Ser and Thr kinase. The interaction between XB3 and the kinase domain of XA21 has been shown in yeast and in vitro, and the physical association between XB3 and XA21 in vivo has also been confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation assays. XB3 contains an ankyrin repeat domain and a RING finger motif that is sufficient for its interaction with the kinase domain of XA21 and for its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, respectively. Transgenic plants with reduced expression of the Xb3 gene are compromised in resistance to the avirulent race of X. oryzae pv oryzae. Furthermore, reduced levels of Xb3 lead to decreased levels of the XA21 protein. These results indicate that Xb3 is necessary for full accumulation of the XA21 protein and for Xa21-mediated resistance.
17253710	Anthocyanin pigmentation provides an excellent system with which to study the regulation of gene expression in higher plants. In this study, OsPR1.1 promoter was isolated and the promoter activity was monitored using a reporter gene OSB2, which encodes a transcription factor for anthocyanin synthesis in rice plants. We introduced PR::OSB2 plasmid into an isogenic Taichung 65, no. 99-962 T-65 CBA B9F5 (T65 CBA), rice line (Oryza sativa L.) and found that the transgenic rice plants exhibited anthocyanin accumulation by the induced expression of OSB2 after chemical treatments with methyl jasmonate (MeJA) and 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (DCINA). The shoots of the PR::OSB2 transgenic rice plants changed color to red after application of the chemicals accompanying with the increased anthocyanin content to approximately 5-fold by MeJA and 2-fold by DCINA, respectively. The anthocyanin accumulation was consistent with the increase of the expression of OSB2 and anthocyanidin synthase (ANS). This color change system could provide a useful and easy way to produce transgenic plants for monitoring of chemicals in the environment.
17387027	The avirulence gene AVR-Pita of Magnaporthe oryzae determines the efficacy of the resistance gene Pi-ta in rice. The structures of the AVR-Pita alleles in 39 US isolates of M. oryzae were analyzed using polymerase chain reaction. A series of allele-specific primers were developed from the AVR-Pita gene to examine the presence of AVR-Pita. Orthologous alleles of the AVR-Pita gene were amplified from avirulent isolates. Sequence analysis of five alleles revealed three introns at identical positions in the AVR-Pita gene. All five alleles were predicted to encode metalloprotease proteins highly similar to the AVR-Pita protein. In contrast, the same regions of the AVR-Pita alleles were not amplified in the most virulent isolates, and significant variations of DNA sequence at the AVR-Pita allele were verified by Southern blot analysis. A Pot3 transposon was identified in the DNA region encoding the putative protease motif of the AVR-Pita protein from a field isolate B2 collected from a Pi-ta-containing cultivar Banks. These findings show that transposons can contribute to instability of AVR-Pita and is one molecular mechanism for defeating resistance genes in rice cultivar Banks.
17541409	Excessive accumulation of sodium in plants causes toxicity. No mutation that greatly diminishes sodium (Na+) influx into plant roots has been isolated. The OsHKT2;1 (previously named OsHKT1) transporter from rice functions as a relatively Na+-selective transporter in heterologous expression systems, but the in vivo function of OsHKT2;1 remains unknown. Here, we analyzed transposon-insertion rice lines disrupted in OsHKT2;1. Interestingly, three independent oshkt2;1-null alleles exhibited significantly reduced growth compared with wild-type plants under low Na+ and K+ starvation conditions. The mutant alleles accumulated less Na+, but not less K+, in roots and shoots. OsHKT2;1 was mainly expressed in the cortex and endodermis of roots. (22)Na+ tracer influx experiments revealed that Na+ influx into oshkt2;1-null roots was dramatically reduced compared with wild-type plants. A rapid repression of OsHKT2;1-mediated Na+ influx and mRNA reduction were found when wild-type plants were exposed to 30 mM NaCl. These analyses demonstrate that Na+ can enhance growth of rice under K+ starvation conditions, and that OsHKT2;1 is the central transporter for nutritional Na+ uptake into K+-starved rice roots.
17586462	In eukaryotes, mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) play important roles in various developmental processes and in environmental stress responses. Here, we show that alternative splicing of the OsBWMK1, a member of the rice MAPK family, generates three transcript variants, OsBWMK1L, OsBWMK1M, and OsBWMK1S. The OsBWMK1L transcript variant was highly and constitutively expressed in all rice tissues tested and its expression was not altered by various stress conditions, whereas OsBWMK1M and OsBWMK1S were normally expressed at low levels but were induced by various stresses. A transient expression assay demonstrated that OsBWMK1L::GFP and OsBWMK1M::GFP were predominantly localized in the cytoplasm, whereas most OsBWMK1S::GFP was localized in the nucleus. Moreover, treatment with defense signaling related molecules, such as H(2)O(2) and SA, induced translocation of OsBWMK1 isoforms from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Thus, our results suggest that alternative splicing of OsBWMK1 generates three different transcript variants that produce proteins with different subcellular localizations.
17586654	Although several potential telomere binding proteins have been identified in higher plants, their in vivo functions are still unknown at the plant level. Both knockout and antisense mutants of RICE TELOMERE BINDING PROTEIN1 (RTBP1) exhibited markedly longer telomeres relative to those of the wild type, indicating that the amount of functional RTBP1 is inversely correlated with telomere length. rtbp1 plants displayed progressive and severe developmental abnormalities in both germination and postgermination growth of vegetative organs over four generations (G1 to G4). Reproductive organ formation, including panicles, stamens, and spikelets, was also gradually and severely impaired in G1 to G4 mutants. Up to 11.4, 17.2, and 26.7% of anaphases in G2, G3, and G4 mutant pollen mother cells, respectively, exhibited one or more chromosomal fusions, and this progressively increasing aberrant morphology was correlated with an increased frequency of anaphase bridges containing telomeric repeat DNA. Furthermore, 35S:anti-RTBP1 plants expressing lower levels of RTBP1 mRNA exhibited developmental phenotypes intermediate between the wild type and mutants in all aspects examined, including telomere length, vegetative and reproductive growth, and degree of genomic anomaly. These results suggest that RTBP1 plays dual roles in rice (Oryza sativa), as both a negative regulator of telomere length and one of positive and functional components for proper architecture of telomeres.
17720929	Genetic background and developmental stage influence the function of some disease resistance (R) genes. The molecular mechanisms of these modifications remain elusive. Our results show that the two factors are associated with the expression of the R gene in rice Xa3 (also known as Xa26)-mediated resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), which in turn influences the expression of defense-responsive genes. The background of japonica rice, one of the two major subspecies of Asian cultivated rice, facilitates the function of Xa3 more than the background of indica rice, another rice subspecies. Xa3 expression gradually increases from early seedling stage to adult stage. Japonica plants carrying Xa3 regulated by the native promoter showed an enlarged resistance spectrum (i.e., resistance to more Xoo races), an increased resistance level (i.e., further reduced lesion length), and whole-growth-stage resistance compared to the indica rice; this enhanced resistance was associated with an increased expression of Xa3 throughout the growth stages in the japonica plants, which resulted in enhanced expression of defense-responsive genes. Overexpressing Xa3 with a constitutive strong promoter further enhanced rice resistance due to further increased Xa3 transcripts in both indica and japonica backgrounds, whereas regulating Xa3 with a pathogen-induced weak promoter impaired rice resistance.
18183401	Specific cis-acting elements, identified in the stress-regulated promoters, can respond to the changes in the levels of abscisic acid. Most of our previous works were done with ACGT-containing typical abscisic acid responsive elements (ABREs) but not with non-ACGT, GC-rich sequences also present in such promoters. The current communication shows a comparative analysis performed on the binding of rice nuclear proteins, together with the purified transcription factor OSBZ8, to the cis-elements in the promoters of Rab16A (Motif I/Motif II), Osem (Motif A-1/Motif B) and Em (4X ABRE/2X ABRC). Our data show that the extent of binding of nuclear protein from salt-tolerant rice to both typical ABREs and non-ACGT, ABRE-like sequences such as Motif IIa, is much higher than that from salt-sensitive rice and occurs constitutively, i.e., even with the protein from unstressed plants. The complex formation is low and inducible only by salt in the salt-sensitive variety. While Motif I bind to a single 38 kDa protein, Motif IIa bind to two polypeptides of 38 and 29 kDa. We also show here that the activation and binding of OSBZ8 to the upstream regions of salt-inducible genes depends on its phosphorylated state. The novelty of our work is that it shows rice OSBZ8 as the prime factor interacting with both typical ABRE(s) and ABRE-like sequences. To our knowledge, this is also the first report for the detection and identification of Motif IIa (non-ACGT, coupling element-like)-binding factor(s) from rice and their expression pattern in different rice cultivars.
18217708	CYP72A21, a rice cytochrome P450 gene, is induced by chloroacetamide herbicides. OSB2, a rice myc-type transcription factor, induces anthocyanin accumulation in rice leaves. To produce plants for biomonitoring by color change, we combined the CYP72A21 promoter and the OSB2 gene and introduced them into the rice isogenic line Taichung-65 CB A (T65), which contains loci CB and A from the rice cultivar Murasakiine. Leaves of the transgenic plants turned red upon treatment with the chloroacetamide herbicides acetochlor, alachlor, and metolachlor. Seedling shoots reddened upon treatment with alachlor or metolachlor at 10 microM, a concentration slightly higher than that used in the field. Anthocyanin content was increased approximately 200% by the treatment. The color changes were consistent with increased shoot expression of OSB2 and the anthocyanidin synthase gene (ANS). This system promises easy detection of rice plant gene expression. Transgenic plants could be used in the future to biomonitor accumulated herbicides.
18271255	Rice bacterial blight and blast are the most crucial rice disease. Xa21 confers resistance to bacterial blight, while Pi-d2 confers resistance to rice blast. Both Xa21 and Pi-d2 encode receptor kinase-like proteins. Biochemical properties of XA21 kinase expressed in bacterial were characterized in our previous report. In this study, both XA21 and PI-D2 kinase domain were PCR amplified and cloned into yeast expression vector pEGH via recombinational cloning strategy, kinase proteins expressed in eukaryotic yeast system was purified and autophosphorylation assay was carried out. The results indicated that XA21 and PI-D2 protein can be detected by SDS-PAGE and showed expected molecular weight. Autophosphorylation assay indicated that yeast expressed XA21 and PI-D2 were active when incubated with P32 labelled ATP. The experiment provided basic materials for biochemical prosperity analysis, protein-protein interaction and substrate screening research.
18305171	Activity of axillary meristems dictates the architecture of both vegetative and reproductive parts of a plant. In Arabidopsis thaliana, a model eudicot species, the transcription factor LFY confers a floral fate to new meristems arising from the periphery of the reproductive shoot apex. Diverse orthologous LFY genes regulate vegetative-to-reproductive phase transition when expressed in Arabidopsis, a property not shared by RFL, the homolog in the agronomically important grass, rice. We have characterized RFL by knockdown of its expression and by its ectopic overexpression in transgenic rice. We find that reduction in RFL expression causes a dramatic delay in transition to flowering, with the extreme phenotype being no flowering. Conversely, RFL overexpression triggers precocious flowering. In these transgenics, the expression levels of known flowering time genes reveal RFL as a regulator of OsSOC1 (OsMADS50), an activator of flowering. Aside from facilitating a transition of the main growth axis to an inflorescence meristem, RFL expression status affects vegetative axillary meristems and therefore regulates tillering. The unique spatially and temporally regulated RFL expression during the development of vegetative axillary bud (tiller) primordia and inflorescence branch primordia is therefore required to produce tillers and panicle branches, respectively. Our data provide mechanistic insights into a unique role for RFL in determining the typical rice plant architecture by regulating distinct downstream pathways. These results offer a means to alter rice flowering time and plant architecture by manipulating RFL-mediated pathways.
18338860	Numerous reports have predicted/hypothesized a role for probenazole-induced protein (PBZ1) as a molecular marker in rice self-defense mechanism. However, the precise function of PBZ1 remains unknown. In the present study, we examined PBZ1 as a putative cell death marker in rice. For this, we focused our attention on a rice lesion mimic mutant (LMM), spotted leaf 1 (spl1), which has been used to study the programmed cell death (PCD) phenomenon during lesion development in leaf. Using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DGE), 18 colloidal Coomassie brilliant blue stained protein spots were found to be differentially expressed in the leaves of spl1 mutant. After analysis of these spots by MALDI-TOF-MS, we identified the PBZ1 protein to be highly inducible in spl1. On the basis of these results, we proceeded to verify whether PBZ1 is highly expressed in the tissues undergoing PCD in rice. To do so, we performed immunoblot analysis and immunolocalization and used transgenic lines carrying the PBZ1 promoter fused with GFP. Results demonstrated that the expression levels and localizations of PBZ1 dramatically coincided with tissues undergoing PCD, namely, during leaf senescence, root aerenchyma formation, coleoptiles senescence, root cap, and seed aleurone layer. Furthermore, localization of the PBZ1 protein was also tightly correlated with TUNEL signal in the seed aleurone layer. As DNA fragmentation is a hallmark of PCD, this result clearly indicates a role for PBZ1 in rice tissues undergoing PCD. In conclusion, our results provide strong support for the hypothesis that PBZ1 is a molecular marker in rice defense response, and can serve as a novel potential marker for cell death/PCD in rice.
18349506	RPR1 (rice probenazole-responsive) is a rice gene, the expression of which is responsive to probenazole (PBZ), a synthetic compound that may act as a plant defense activator. It has been shown that RPR1 gene may be involved in disease resistance responses. In this study, a series of amplified fragments from the rice RPR1 promoter region, including 2,416 bp, 1,574 bp, 819 bp, 568 bp and 208 bp fragments upstream to the ATG translation start site, were prepared and linked to the coding region of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. Analysis of GUS gene transient expression in rice calli demonstrated that the 568 bp fragment was sufficient for probenazole responsiveness. Analysis of GUS gene stable expression in Arabidopsis thaliana indicated that the 2,416 bp and 1,574 bp fragments drove GUS expression only in shoot apical meristem and petiole. Identification of these PBZ-responsive fragments provides a basis on which PBZ-inducible gene regulatory systems can be constructed for experimental analysis of gene expression and for field application.
1840687
18449577	To better understand the ligand-binding mechanism of protein Pir7b, important part in detoxification of a pathogen-derived compound against Pyricularia oryzae, a 3D structure model of protein Pir7b was constructed based on the structure of the template SABP2. Three substrates were docking to this protein, two of them were proved to be active, and some critical residues are identified, which had not been confirmed by the experiments. His87 and Leu17 considered as 'oxyanion hole' contribute to initiating the Ser86 nucleophilic attack. Gln187 and Asp139 can form hydrogen bonds with the anilid group to maintain the active binding orientation with the substrates. The docking model can well interpret the specificity of protein Pir7b towards the anilid moiety of the substrates and provide valuable structure information about the ligand binding to protein Pir7b.
18779157	A 1,700 bp DNA fragment, OsCDPK7 gene, was cloned with RT-PCR from liaoyan241 leaf treated under a low temperature of 4. Compared to the OsCDPK7 gene reported before (GenBank accession No. AB042550), this fragment, lack of 26 amino acids, possesses the activity of Ca2+-dependent protein kinase because of a complete integration of the Ca2+ binding structure domain and Ser/Thr protein kinase activity center. Plant expression vector was constructed,, OsCDPK7 gene was regulated by E12 promoter. OsCDPK7 gene was transferred into rice via Agrobacterium-mediated method. After Km screening and Southern blot, 10 transgenic plants were obtained. The analysis on the salt tolerance showed that the expression of OsCDPK7 gene composition enhanced the salt tolerance of T2 transgenic plants, part of T2 transgenic seeds could germinate in 0.2 mol/L NaCl medium, and T2 transgenic young plants could rejuvenate after treatment with 0.4 mol/L NaCl for 10 days, while the controlled plants could not germinate and died in salt stress. This research finding proved that the regulation factor of the plant signal transduction could enhance the salt tolerance of transgenic plants, while OsCDPK7 expression was different in the different tolerence transgenic plants.
18817453	Perception of extracellular signals by cell surface receptors is of central importance to eukaryotic development and immunity. Kinases that are associated with the receptors or are part of the receptors themselves modulate signaling through phosphorylation events. The rice (Oryza sativa L.) XA21 receptor kinase is a key recognition and signaling determinant in the innate immune response. A yeast two-hybrid screen using the intracellular portion of XA21, including the juxtamembrane (JM) and kinase domain as bait, identified a protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C), called XA21 binding protein 15 (XB15). The interaction of XA21 and XB15 was confirmed in vitro and in vivo by glutathione-S-transferase (GST) pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays, respectively. XB15 fusion proteins purified from Escherichia coli and from transgenic rice carry PP2C activity. Autophosphorylated XA21 can be dephosphorylated by XB15 in a temporal- and dosage-dependent manner. A serine residue in the XA21 JM domain is required for XB15 binding. Xb15 mutants display a severe cell death phenotype, induction of pathogenesis-related genes, and enhanced XA21-mediated resistance. Overexpression of Xb15 in an XA21 rice line compromises resistance to the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. These results demonstrate that Xb15 encodes a PP2C that negatively regulates the XA21-mediated innate immune response.
18838789	Cultivar identification of seven Korean domestic rice using DNA markers related to blast resistance was conducted. By PCR analyses using six markers, which we developed in a previous study, and one newly-developed marker for pib, it became possible to differentiate the seven cultivars from each other. This result should contribute not only to cultivar identification but also, to molecular breeding of blast resistance for Korean rice.
19000005	The Pi-ta gene in rice confers resistance to races of Magnaporthe oryzae that contain AVR-Pita. Pi-ta encodes a predicted cytoplasmic receptor protein with a nucleotide-binding site and a leucine-rich domain. A panel of 51 Oryza accessions of AA genome species Oryza sativa, O. glaberrima, O. rufipogon, O. nivara, and O. barthii, and CC genome species O. officinalis were sequenced to investigate the diversity present in the exon and intron regions of the Pi-ta gene. Two major clades were identified, consisting of 16 different sequences with numerous insertion and deletions. Only one Pi-ta resistance allele was identified despite DNA sequences revealing 16 Pi-ta variants. Most differences were identified in the intron region, and obvious selection of any motif was not observed in the coding region of Pi-ta variants. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis of seedlings revealed that all Pi-ta variants were expressed with or without pathogen inoculation. The 15 Pi-ta variants can be translated into nine proteins highly similar to the Pi-ta protein. Resistance to M. oryzae expressing AVR-Pita correlates with alanine and susceptibility correlates with serine at position 918 of Pi-ta in most accessions examined. These data confirm that a single amino acid controlling resistance specificity underlies the evolution of resistance of Pi-ta genes in rice.
19021878	Phytic acid acts as the major storage form of phosphorus in plant seeds and is poorly digested by monogastric animals. The degradation of phytic acid in animal diets is necessary to overcome both environmental and nutritional issues. The enzyme 1D-myo-inositol 3-phosphate [Ins(3)P(1)] synthase (EC 5.5.1.4) catalyses the first step of myo-inositol biosynthesis and directs phytic acid biosynthesis in seeds. The rice Ins(3)P(1) synthase gene (RINO1) is highly expressed in developing seed embryos and in the aleurone layer, where phytic acid is synthesized and stored. In rice seeds, 18-kDa oleosin (Ole18) is expressed in a seed-specific manner, and its transcripts are restricted to the embryo and the aleurone layer. Therefore, to effectively suppress phytic acid biosynthesis, antisense RINO1 cDNA was expressed under the control of the Ole18 promoter, directing the same spatial pattern in seeds as RINO1 in transgenic rice plants. The generated transgenic rice plants showed strong 'low phytic acid' (lpa) phenotypes, in which seed phytic acid was reduced by 68% and free available phosphate was concomitantly increased. No negative effects on seed weight, germination or plant growth were observed. The available phosphate levels of the stable transgenic plants surpassed those of currently available rice lpa mutants.
19129653	We isolated two major zwitterionic glycosphingolipids (ZGLs) from the phytopathogenic filamentous fungus Trichoderma viride. Structural analyses showed that the ZGLs (designated Tv-ZGL2 and Tv-ZGL3) were the same as the glycosphingolipids ZGL2 and ZGL4 from Acremonium sp., which are described in our previous paper. ZGLs have the following structure: Man(alpha1-6)GlcN(alpha1-2)Ins-P-Cer (Tv-ZGL2) and phosphocholine (PC)-->6Man(alpha1-6)GlcN(alpha1-2)Ins-P-Cer (Tv-ZGL3). To determine whether these ZGLs have functional roles in plant-fungus interaction, we tested to determine whether they would induce defense responses in cultured rice cells. We found that T. viride's ZGLs elicited expression of the PAL and PBZ1 genes, both of which are associated with pathogen resistance. Tv-ZGL2 induced cell death at a moderate rate. Tv-ZGL3, which contains a PC moiety, induced a high level of cell death in rice cells.
19152316	RTBP1 is a rice telomeric protein that binds to the duplex array of TTTAGGG repeats at chromosome ends. The DNA binding domain of RTBP1 contains a Myb-type DNA binding motif and a highly conserved C-terminal Myb extension that is unique to plant telomeric proteins. Using an electrophoretic mobility shift assay, we identified the C-terminal 110-amino acid region (RTBP1(506-615)) as the minimal telomeric DNA binding domain, suggesting that the Myb extension is required for binding plant telomeric DNA. Like other telomeric proteins such as human TRF1 and yeast Rap1, RTBP1 induced a DNA bending in the telomeric repeat sequence, suggesting that RTBP1 may play a role in establishing and/or maintaining an active telomere configuration in vivo. To elucidate the DNA binding mode of RTBP1, we determined the three-dimensional structure of RTBP1(506-615) in solution by NMR spectroscopy. The overall structure of RTBP1(506-615) is composed of four alpha-helices and stabilized by three hydrophobic patches. The second and third helices in RTBP1 form a helix-turn-helix motif that interacts directly with DNA. The fourth helix located in the Myb extension is essential for binding to telomeric DNA via stabilization of the overall structure of the RTBP1 DNA binding domain. When DNA bound to RTBP1(506-615), large chemical shift perturbations were induced in the N-terminal arm, helix 3, and the loop between helices 3 and 4. These results suggest that helix 3 functions as a sequence-specific recognition helix while the N-terminal arm stabilizes the DNA binding.
19194937	Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was adapted to estimate transgene copy number of the rice Xa21 gene in transgenic citrus plants. This system used TaqMan qRT-PCR and the endogenous citrus gene encoding for lipid transfer protein (LTP). Transgenic "Hamlin" sweet orange plants were generated using two different protoplast-GFP transformation systems: cotransformation and single plasmid transformation. A dilution series of genomic DNA from one of the transgenic lines was used to generate a standard curve for the endogenous LTP and the transgene Xa21. This standard curve was used for relative quantification of the endogenous gene and the transgene. Copy numbers of the transgene Xa21 detected from qRT-PCR analysis correlated with that from Southern blot analysis (r = 0.834). Thus, qRT-PCR is an efficient means of estimating copy number in transgenic citrus plants. This analysis can be performed at much earlier stages of transgenic plant development than southern blot analysis, which expedites investigation of transgenes in slow-growing woody plants.
19390828	Our previous study suggested that OsBWMK1, a gene which encodes a member of the rice MAP kinase family, generates transcript variants which show distinct expression patterns in response to environmental stresses. The transcript variants are generated by alternative splicing and by use of alternative promoters. To test whether the two alternative promoters, pOsBWMK1L (promoter for the OsBWMK1L splice variant) and pOsBWMK1S (promoter for the OsBWMK1S splice variant), are biologically functional, we analyzed transgenic plants expressing GUS fusion constructs for each promoter. Both pOsBWMK1L and pOsBWMK1S are biologically active, although the activity of pOsBWMK1S is lower than that of pOsBWMK1L. Histochemical analysis revealed that pOsBWMK1L is constitutively active in most tissues at various developmental stages in rice and Arabidopsis, whereas pOsBWMK1S activity is spatially and temporally restricted. Furthermore, the expression of pOsBWMK1S::GUS was upregulated in response to hydrogen peroxide, a plant defense signaling molecule, in both plant species. These results suggest that the differential expression of OsBWMK1 splice variants is the result of alternative promoter usage and, moreover, that the mechanisms controlling OsBWMK1 gene expression are conserved in both monocot and dicot plants.
19473328	The rice (Oryza sativa L.) basic leucine Zipper factor RISBZ1 and rice prolamin box binding factor (RPBF) are transcriptional activators of rice seed storage protein (SSP) genes in vivo. To ascertain the functions of these trans-activators in seed development, knock-down (KD) transgenic rice plants were generated in which the accumulation of RISBZ1 and RPBF was reduced in an endosperm-specific manner by co-suppression (KD-RISBZ1 and KD-RPBF). The accumulation of most SSPs changed little between individual KD mutants and wild-type plants, whereas a double KD mutant (KD-RISBZ1/KD-RPBF) resulted in a significant reduction of most SSP gene expression and accumulation. The reduction of both trans-activators also caused a greater reduction in seed starch accumulation than individual KD mutants. Storage lipids were accumulated at reduced levels in KD-RISBZ1 and KD-RISBZ1/KD-RPBF seeds. KD-RPBF and KD-RISBZ1/KD-RPBF seeds exhibited multi-layered aleurone cells. Gene expression of DEFECTIVE KERNEL1 (OsDEK1), CRINKLY4 (OsCR4) and SUPERNUMERARY ALEURONE LAYER 1 (OsSAL1) rice homologues was decreased in the KD mutants, suggesting that these genes are regulated by RISBZ1 and RPBF. These phenotypes suggest that combinatorial interactions between RISBZ1 and RPBF play an essential role during grain filling. The functional redundancy and compensation between RISBZ1 and RPBF possibly account for weak effects on the SSP levels in single KD mutants, and help maintain various processes during seed development in rice. Physical interaction between RISBZ1 and RPBF may ensure that these processes are carried out properly.
19605414	The rice lamina joint is ideal material for investigating the activity of brassinosteroids (BRs) and auxin because of its high sensitivity to these compounds. Using a series of rice BR biosynthetic and receptor mutants, we conducted lamina joint tests to elucidate the mechanism of cross-talk between BR and auxin signaling in lamina joint bending. In BR biosynthetic mutants d2 and brd1, which are defective in C-23 hydroxylase and C-6 oxidase, respectively, the lamina joint response to auxin was significantly higher than that of wild-type plants. The other BR-biosynthetic mutants, brd2, osdwarf4 and d11, which are defective in C-22-hydroxylated BRs, showed less or no response to auxin. These results suggest that C-22-hydroxylated BRs are involved in auxin-induced lamina joint bending. The results were supported by the observation that inhibition of the hyper-response to auxin in d2 was reduced by treatment with brassinazole, which inhibits the function of DWARF4, the C-22 hydroxylase. In d61, which is defective in OsBRI1, a possible BR receptor in rice, the bending angle of the lamina joint in response to auxin and C-22-hydroxylated 6-deoxoBRs was nearly the same as that in wild-type plants. This implies that C-22-hydroxylated BRs function in auxin signaling independently of OsBRI1. From these observations, we propose that C-22-hydroxylated BRs participate in auxin signaling via a novel OsBRI1-independent signaling pathway.
19607808	Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) play important roles in responses to various environmental stresses. In a previous study, we demonstrated that OsBWMK1, which localizes in the nucleus, mediates PR gene expression by activating the OsEREBP1 transcription factor, and that the constitutive expression of OsBWMK1 also enhances resistance against pathogen infections [Y.H. Cheong, B.C. Moon, J.K. Kim, C.Y. Kim, M.C. Kim, I.H. Kim, C.Y. Park, J.C. Kim, B.O. Park, S.C. Koo, H.W. Yoon, W.S. Chung, C.O. Lim, S.Y. Lee, M.J. Cho, BWMK1, rice mitogen-activated protein kinase, locates in the nucleus and mediates pathogenesis-related gene expression by activation of a transcription factor, Plant Physiol. 132 (2003) 1961--1972]. Here, we report that OsBWMK1 phosphorylates OsWRKY33, which binds to the W-box element (TTGACCA) in several PR gene promoters, thereby enhancing DNA-binding activity of the factor to its in vitro cognate binding site. Transient coexpression of OsBWMK1 and OsWRKY33 in Arabidopsis protoplasts elevates SA-dependent expression of the GUS-reporter gene driven by the W-box element and the PR1 promoter. Furthermore, the levels of SA and H(2)O(2) are elevated in 35S-OsBWMK1 transgenic plants that show HR-like cell death. Altogether, OsBWMK1 may mediate SA-dependent defense responses by activating the WRKY transcription factor in plants.
19623205	Studying the size of genomic introgressions should lead to a better understanding of linkage disequilibrium in crop breeding. In this study, progeny of the cross between a tropical japonica rice cultivar Katy containing the rice blast resistance gene Pi-ta and a temperate japonica cultivar M202 (pi-ta)' [corrected]. were inoculated with the race IB49 of Magnaporthe oryzae that recognizes Pi-ta. The resistant progeny were identified during backcrossing for five generations. Two progeny of each of the 22 BC(5)F(1) were genotyped using 12 simple sequence repeat markers around the Pi-ta genomic region on chromosome 12. Unlinked DNA in 43 BC(5)F(2) individuals was found primarily from the recurrent parent M202 as expected. However, unexpectedly, various sizes of genomic fragments around Pi-ta ranging from half (14 Mbp) to the entire chromosome (27 Mbp) were found from the donor. Similarly, large segments of comparable sizes of the Pi-ta genomic region originating from a landrace indica variety Tetep from Vietnam were also identified in Pi-ta containing US rice cultivars, Katy, Madison, Kaybonnet, and Drew. It was also determined that Tetep had an identical chromosome 12 to another landrace cultivar Tadukan from the Philippines. The most widely grown indica cultivar IR64 was found to contain the same 6.4 Mbp around Pi-ta. This study demonstrates that a large portion of the chromosome was maintained by artificial selection for blast resistance during crop breeding.
19637639	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a simple, quick and highly sensitive method. However the accuracy of the conventional PCR assay was often affected by false positives and false negatives. In this study, a protocol competitive PCR was used to reduce the false results in screening for selectable marker-free (SMF) Xa2l transgenic rice plants. The competitive template of Xa21 was the endogenous Xa2l homologous sequence located on chromosome 11. The competitive template of the selectable marker gene, hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt), was an additive DNA extracted from hpt transgenic Nipponbare (Oryza sativa L). Through competitive PCR analysis of transgenic T1 plants produced by double right border binary vector, false positive or false negative samples were effectively diminished, and genuine SMF Xa21 transgenic plants were obviously obtained. Comparing with the conventional non-competitive PCR, competitive PCR increased the accuracy for selecting SMF Xa21 transgenic plants. The results of bacterial blight (BB) resistance tests and hygromycin B resistance assay of SMF Xa21 transgenic plants testified the reliability of this method.
19808806	For systematic and genome-wide analyses of rice gene functions, we took advantage of the full-length cDNA overexpresser (FOX) gene-hunting system and generated >12 000 independent FOX-rice lines from >25 000 rice calli treated with the rice-FOX Agrobacterium library. We found two FOX-rice lines generating green calli on a callus-inducing medium containing 2,4-D, on which wild-type rice calli became ivory yellow. In both lines, OsGLK1 cDNA encoding a GARP transcription factor was ectopically overexpressed. Using rice expression-microarray and northern blot analyses, we found that a large number of nucleus-encoded genes involved in chloroplast functions were highly expressed and transcripts of plastid-encoded genes, psaA, psbA and rbcL, increased in the OsGLK1-FOX calli. Transmission electron microscopy showed the existence of differentiated chloroplasts with grana stacks in OsGLK1-FOX calli cells. However, in darkness, OsGLK1-FOX calli did not show a green color or develop grana stacks. Furthermore, we found developed chloroplasts in vascular bundle and bundle sheath cells of coleoptiles and leaves from OsGLK1-FOX seedlings. The OsGLK1-FOX calli exhibited high photosynthetic activity and were able to grow on sucrose-depleted media, indicating that developed chloroplasts in OsGLK1-FOX rice calli are functional and active. We also observed that the endogenous OsGLK1 mRNA level increased synchronously with the greening of wild-type calli after transfer to plantlet regeneration medium. These results strongly suggest that OsGLK1 regulates chloroplast development under the control of light and phytohormones, and that it is a key regulator of chloroplast development.
19833360	In plants, it has been proposed that hexacoordinate (class 1) non-symbiotic Hbs (nsHb-1) function in vivo as peroxidases. However, little is known about peroxidase activity of nsHb-1. We evaluated the peroxidase activity of rice recombinant Hb1 (a nsHb-1) by using the guaiacol/H2O2 system at pH 6.0 and compared it to that from horseradish peroxidase (HRP). Results showed that the affinity of rice Hb1 for H2O2 was 86-times lower than that of HRP (K(m)=23.3 and 0.27 mM, respectively) and that the catalytic efficiency of rice Hb1 for the oxidation of guaiacol using H2O2 as electron donor was 2838-times lower than that of HRP (k(cat)/K(m)=15.8 and 44,833 mM(-1) min(-1), respectively). Also, results from this work showed that rice Hb1 is not chemically modified and binds CO after incubation with high H2O2 concentration, and that it poorly protects recombinant Escherichia coli from H2O2 stress. These observations indicate that rice Hb1 inefficiently scavenges H2O2 as compared to a typical plant peroxidase, thus indicating that non-symbiotic Hbs are unlikely to function as peroxidases in planta.
19889878	Na(+) and K(+) homeostasis are crucial for plant growth and development. Two HKT transporter/channel classes have been characterized that mediate either Na(+) transport or Na(+) and K(+) transport when expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and yeast. However, the Na(+)/K(+) selectivities of the K(+)-permeable HKT transporters have not yet been studied in plant cells. One study expressing 5' untranslated region-modified HKT constructs in yeast has questioned the relevance of cation selectivities found in heterologous systems for selectivity predictions in plant cells. Therefore, here we analyze two highly homologous rice (Oryza sativa) HKT transporters in plant cells, OsHKT2;1 and OsHKT2;2, that show differential K(+) permeabilities in heterologous systems. Upon stable expression in cultured tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright-Yellow 2 cells, OsHKT2;1 mediated Na(+) uptake, but little Rb(+) uptake, consistent with earlier studies and new findings presented here in oocytes. In contrast, OsHKT2;2 mediated Na(+)-K(+) cotransport in plant cells such that extracellular K(+) stimulated OsHKT2;2-mediated Na(+) influx and vice versa. Furthermore, at millimolar Na(+) concentrations, OsHKT2;2 mediated Na(+) influx into plant cells without adding extracellular K(+). This study shows that the Na(+)/K(+) selectivities of these HKT transporters in plant cells coincide closely with the selectivities in oocytes and yeast. In addition, the presence of external K(+) and Ca(2+) down-regulated OsHKT2;1-mediated Na(+) influx in two plant systems, Bright-Yellow 2 cells and intact rice roots, and also in Xenopus oocytes. Moreover, OsHKT transporter selectivities in plant cells are shown to depend on the imposed cationic conditions, supporting the model that HKT transporters are multi-ion pores.
19892983	The rice Xa21 gene confers immunity to most strains of the bacterium Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of biologically active fractions from Xoo supernatants led to the identification of a 194-amino acid protein designated Ax21 (activator of XA21-mediated immunity). A sulfated, 17-amino acid synthetic peptide (axY(S)22) derived from the N-terminal region of Ax21 is sufficient for activity, whereas peptides lacking tyrosine sulfation are biologically inactive. Using coimmunoprecipitation, we found that XA21 is required for axY(S)22 binding and recognition. axY(S)22 is 100% conserved in all analyzed Xanthomonas species, confirming that Ax21 is a pathogen-associated molecular pattern and that XA21 is a pattern recognition receptor.
20074972	Expression of OLE16 and OLE18, two oleosin isoforms in oil bodies of rice seeds, was suppressed by RNA interference. Electron microscopy revealed a few large, irregular oil clusters in 35S::ole16i transgenic seed cells, whereas accumulated oil bodies in 35S::ole18i transgenic seed cells were comparable to or slightly larger than those in wild-type seed cells. Large and irregular oil clusters were observed in cells of double mutant seeds. These unexpected differences observed in oil bodies of 35S::ole16i and 35S::ole18i transgenic seeds were further analyzed. In comparison to wild-type plants, OLE18 levels were reduced to approximately 40% when OLE16 was completely eliminated in 35S::ole16i transgenic plants. In contrast, OLE16 was reduced to only 80% of wild-type levels when OLE18 was completely eliminated in 35S::ole18i transgenic plants. While the triacylglycerol content of crude seed extracts of 35S::ole16i and 35S::ole18i transgenic seeds was reduced to approximately 60% and 80%, respectively, triacylglycerol in isolated oil bodies was respectively reduced to 45% and 80% in accordance with the reduction of their oleosin contents. Oil bodies isolated from both 35S::ole16i and 35S::ole18i transgenic seeds were found to be of comparable size and stability to those isolated from wild-type rice seeds, although they were merely sheltered by a single oleosin isoform. The drastic difference between the triacylglycerol contents of crude seed extracts and isolated oil bodies from 35S::ole16i transgenic plants could be attributed to the presence of large, unstable oil clusters that were sheltered by insufficient amounts of oleosin and therefore could not be isolated together with stable oil bodies.
20085889	The expression of Pib gene in rice was induced by hormone, such as jasmonic acid and ethylene. In order to determine the necessary regions of sequence or motifs for response to jasmonic acid and ethylene in Pib promoter, the full length promoter of Pib (-3,572 approximately 2 bp) and three different 5' deletion fragments of Pib promoter (-2,692 approximately 2 bp, -1,335 approximately 2 bp, -761 approximately 2 bp) were synthesized by PCR and then were substituted for 35S upstream gus in a binary plasmid to construct re-combined plasmids of Pib promoter-gus fusions. Transgenic rice plants of the four recombined plasmids were produced by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Quality and quantum analysis of gus activities in transgenic plants at both protein and mRNA levels were conducted. The promotion activity of the full length promoter of Pib (-3,572 approximately 2 bp, pNAR901) was the highest in the four recombinants and the gus activities in its transgenic plant organs were enhanced obviously at 6 h after treatment with jasmonic acid or ethylene. The promotion activity of the deleted Pib promoters was significantly decreased and the response to jasmonic acid or ethylene treatment was not present when the -3,572 approximately -2,692 bp sequence was knocked out from the Pib promoter. Although the disparity in the lengths of the deleted Pib promoter of pNAR902 (-2,692 approximately 2 bp), pNAR903 (-1,335 approximately 2 bp), and pNAR904 (-761 approximately 2 bp) was more than 2 or 3 times, the response to jasmonic acid or ethylene treatment was not different among their transgenic plants. All these results indicated that the common deleted sequences (-3,572 approximately -2,692 bp) in the three deleted Pib promoter constructs were the essential region to the response to jasmonic acid and ethylene treatment. The result of pib promoter sequence searching indicated that there was only one GCCGCC motif at -2,722 bp of this common deleted segment in the Pib promoter sequence. Our rice transgenic results showed that the GCCGCC may be a cis-motif for Pib gene conferring response to jasmonic acid and ethylene for Pib gene.
20118235	Despite the key role that pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) play in regulating immunity in plants and animals, the mechanism of activation of the associated non-arginine-aspartate (non-RD) kinases is unknown. The rice PRR XA21 recognizes the pathogen-associated molecular pattern, Ax21 (activator of XA21-mediated immunity). Here we show that the XA21 juxtamembrane (JM) domain is required for kinase autophosphorylation. Threonine 705 in the XA21 JM domain is essential for XA21 autophosphorylation in vitro and XA21-mediated innate immunity in vivo. The replacement of Thr(705) by an alanine or glutamic acid abolishes XA21 autophosphorylation and eliminates interactions between XA21 and four XA21-binding proteins in yeast and rice. Although threonine residues analogous to Thr(705) of XA21 are present in the JM domains of most RD and non-RD plant receptor-like kinases, this residue is not required for autophosphorylation of the Arabidopsis RD RLK BRI1 (brassinosteroid insensitive 1). The threonine 705 of XA21 is conserved only in the JM domains of plant RLKs but not in those of fly, human, or mouse suggesting distinct regulatory mechanisms. These results contribute to growing knowledge regarding the mechanism by which non-RD RLKs function in plant.
20174657	Recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) activates the innate immune response. Although PRR-mediated signaling events are critical to the survival of plants and animals, secretion and localization of PRRs have not yet been clearly elucidated. Here we report the in vivo interaction of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone BiP3 with the rice XA21 PRR, which confers resistance to the Gram negative bacterium, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). We show that XA21 is glycosylated and is primarily localized to the ER and also to the plasma membrane (PM). In BiP3-overexpressing rice plants, XA21-mediated immunity is compromised, XA21 stability is significantly decreased, and XA21 proteolytic cleavage is inhibited. BiP3 overexpression does not affect the general rice defense response, cell death or brassinolide-induced responses. These results indicate that BiP3 regulates XA21 protein stability and processing and that this regulation is critical for resistance to Xoo.
20385831	Cell-surface pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) are key components of the innate immune response in animals and plants. These receptors typically carry or associate with non-RD kinases to control early events of innate immunity signaling. Despite their importance, the mode of regulation of PRRs is largely unknown. Here we show that the rice PRR, XA21, interacts with XA21 binding protein 24 (XB24), a previously undescribed ATPase. XB24 promotes autophosphorylation of XA21 through its ATPase activity. Rice lines silenced for Xb24 display enhanced XA21-mediated immunity, whereas rice lines overexpressing XB24 are compromised for immunity. XB24 ATPase enzyme activity is required for XB24 function. XA21 is degraded in the presence of the pathogen-associated molecular pattern Ax21 when XB24 is overexpressed. These results demonstrate a function for this large class of broadly conserved ATPases in PRR-mediated immunity.
20544965	The rice class I chitinase OsChia1b, also referred to as RCC2 or Cht-2, is composed of an N-terminal chitin-binding domain (ChBD) and a C-terminal catalytic domain (CatD), which are connected by a proline- and threonine-rich linker peptide. Because of the ability to inhibit fungal growth, the OsChia1b gene has been used to produce transgenic plants with enhanced disease resistance. As an initial step toward elucidating the mechanism of hydrolytic action and antifungal activity, the full-length structure of OsChia1b was analyzed by X-ray crystallography and small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS). We determined the crystal structure of full-length OsChia1b at 2.00-A resolution, but there are two possibilities for a biological molecule with and without interdomain contacts. The SAXS data showed an extended structure of OsChia1b in solution compared to that in the crystal form. This extension could be caused by the conformational flexibility of the linker. A docking simulation of ChBD with tri-N-acetylchitotriose exhibited a similar binding mode to the one observed in the crystal structure of a two-domain plant lectin complexed with a chitooligosaccharide. A hypothetical model based on the binding mode suggested that ChBD is unsuitable for binding to crystalline alpha-chitin, which is a major component of fungal cell walls because of its collisions with the chitin chains on the flat surface of alpha-chitin. This model also indicates the difference in the binding specificity of plant and bacterial ChBDs of GH19 chitinases, which contribute to antifungal activity.
20578289	Production of recombinant Oryza sativa non-symbiotic hemoglobin 1 (OsHb1) by Escherichia coli was maximized in shake-flask cultures in media containing tryptone, yeast extract, sodium chloride and byproduct glycerol from biodiesel production. Response surface methodology (RSM) and artificial neural networks (ANNs), followed by multiple response optimization through a desirability function were applied to evaluate the amount of OsHb1 produced. The results obtained by the application of ANNs were more reliable since better statistical parameters were obtained. The optimal conditions were (g L(-1)), tryptone, 42.69; yeast extract, 20.11; sodium chloride, 17.77; and byproduct glycerol, 0.33. A maximum recombinant protein concentration of 3.50 g L(-1) and a minimum biomass concentration of 18.48 g L(-1) were obtained under these conditions. Although the concentrations of tryptone, yeast extract and sodium chloride are relatively high, the increase in the yield with respect to biomass formed (Y(P/X)) overcomes this disadvantage.
20581303	Temporal and spatial variation in the levels of and sensitivity to hormones are essential for the development of higher organisms. Traditionally, end-product feedback regulation has been considered as the key mechanism for the achievement of cellular homeostasis. Brassinosteroids (BRs) are plant steroid hormones that are perceived by the cell surface receptor kinase Brassinosteroid Insensitive1. Binding of these hormones to the receptor activates BR signaling and eventually suppresses BR synthesis. This report shows that RAVL1 regulates the expression of the BR receptor. Furthermore, RAVL1 is also required for the expression of the BR biosynthetic genes D2, D11, and BRD1 that are subject to BR negative feedback. Activation by RAVL1 was coordinated via E-box cis-elements in the promoters of the receptor and biosynthetic genes. Also, RAVL1 is necessary for the response of these genes to changes in cellular BR homeostasis. Genetic evidence is presented to strengthen the observation that the primary action of RAVL1 mediates the expression of genes involved in BR signaling and biosynthesis. This study thus describes a regulatory circuit modulating the homeostasis of BR in which RAVL1 ensures the basal activity of both the signaling and the biosynthetic pathways.
20590657	In the early 1970s, the Xa21 gene from the wild rice species Oryza longistaminata drew attention of rice breeders because of its broad-spectrum resistance to diverse strains of a serious bacterial disease of rice in Asia and Africa, called 'bacterial blight disease', caused by the Gram-negative bacterium, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). In 1995, we isolated the gene controlling this resistance and in 2009 demonstrated that XA21 recognizes a highly conserved peptide, called 'Ax21' (activator of XA21-mediated immunity). Tyrosine sulfation of Ax21 is required for recognition by rice XA21. A decade of genetic, molecular and biochemical studies have uncovered key components of the XA21-mediated signalling cascade. Ax21 recognition by XA21 at the cell surface induces phosphorylation-mediated events, which are predicted to alter subcellular localization and/or DNA-binding activity of a WRKY family of transcription factors. Because XA21 is representative of the large number of predicted pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) in rice (n = 328), Arabidopsis (n = 35) and other plant species, further characterization of XA21-mediated signalling pathways will contribute to elucidation of these important defence responses.
20610705	Synthesis of lipidic components in anthers, including of the pollen exine, is essential for plant male reproductive development. Plant lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) are small, abundant lipid-binding proteins that have the ability to exchange lipids between membranes in vitro. However, their biological role in male reproductive development remains less understood. Here, we report the crucial role of OsC6 in regulating postmeiotic anther development in rice (Oryza sativa). Found in monocots, OsC6 belongs to a distinct clade from previously identified LTP1 and LTP2 family members found in both dicots and monocots. OsC6 expression is mainly detectable in tapetal cells and weakly in microspores from stage 9 to stage 11 of anther development. Immunological assays indicated that OsC6 is widely distributed in anther tissues such as the tapetal cytoplasm, the extracellular space between the tapetum and middle layer, and the anther locule and anther cuticle. Biochemical assays indicated that recombinant OsC6 has lipid binding activity. Moreover, plants in which OsC6 was silenced had defective development of orbicules (i.e. Ubisch bodies) and pollen exine and had reduced pollen fertility. Furthermore, additional evidence is provided that the expression of OsC6 is positively regulated by a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, Tapetum Degeneration Retardation (TDR). Extra granule-like structures were observed on the inner surface of the tdr tapetal layer when the expression of OsC6 was driven by the TDR promoter compared with the tdr mutant. These data suggest that OsC6 plays a crucial role in the development of lipidic orbicules and pollen exine during anther development in rice.
21037241	Lysine is the most deficient essential amino acid in cereal grains. A bifunctional lysine-degrading enzyme, lysine ketoglutarate reductase/saccharopine dehydrogenase (LKR/SDH), is one of the key regulators determining free lysine content in plants. In rice (Oryza sativa. L), a bifunctional OsLKR/SDH is predominantly present in seeds. Here, we show that OsLKR/SDH is directly regulated by major transcriptional regulators of seed storage protein (SSP) genes: the basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor (TF), RISBZ1, and the DNA-binding with one finger (DOF) transcription factor, RPBF. OsLKR/SDH was highly expressed in the aleurone and subaleurone layers of the endosperm. Mutation analyses in planta, trans-activation reporter assays in vivo and electrophorestic mobility shift assays in vitro showed that the RPBF-recognizing prolamin box (AAAG) and the RISBZ1-recognizing GCN4 motif (TGAG/CTCA) act as important cis-elements for proper expression of OsLKR/SDH like SSP genes. However, mutation of the GCN4 motif within ProOsLKR/SDH did not alter the spatial expression pattern, whereas mutation of the GCN4 motif within ProGluB-1 did alter spatial expression. Reducing either RISBZ1 or RPBF decreased OsLKR/SDH levels, resulting in an increase in free lysine content in rice grain. This result was in contrast to the fact that a significant reduction of SSP was observed only when these transcription factors were simultaneously reduced, suggesting that RISBZ1 and RPBF regulate SSP genes and OsLKR/SDH with high and limited redundancy, respectively. The same combinations of TF and cis-elements are involved in the regulation of OsLKR/SDH and SSP genes, but there is a distinct difference in their regulation mechanisms.
21070413	Chitin is a component of fungal cell walls, and its fragments act as elicitors in many plants. The plasma membrane glycoprotein CEBiP, which possesses LysM domains, is a receptor for the chitin elicitor (CE) in rice. Here, we report that the perception of CE by CEBiP contributes to disease resistance against the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae, and that enhanced responses to CE by engineering CEBiP increase disease tolerance. Knockdown of CEBiP expression allowed increased spread of the infection hyphae. To enhance defense responses to CE, we constructed chimeric genes composed of CEBiP and Xa21, which mediate resistance to rice bacterial leaf blight. The expression of either CRXa1 or CRXa3, each of which contains the whole extracellular portion of CEBiP, the whole intracellular domain of XA21, and the transmembrane domain from either CEBiP or XA21, induced cell death accompanied by an increased production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species after treatment with CE. Rice plants expressing the chimeric receptor exhibited necrotic lesions in response to CE and became more resistant to M. oryzae. Deletion of the first LysM domain in CRXA1 abolished these cellular responses. These results suggest that CEs are produced and recognized through the LysM domain of CEBiP during the interaction between rice and M. oryzae and imply that engineering pattern recognition receptors represents a new strategy for crop protection against fungal diseases.
21110127	Cell death is an important process of plant responses to development and biotic/abiotic stresses. In rice plants, PBZ1, a PR10 family protein, has been shown to accumulate in tissues undergoing cell death. However, the function of PBZ1 in cell death remains yet to be demonstrated. Here, we report that exogenous recombinant PBZ1 protein induces cell death in rice suspension-cultured cells (SCCs) and also in leaves of Nicotiana tabacum in a dosedependent manner. This finding was confirmed in vivo in transgenic Arabidopsis lines harboring the PBZ1 gene under the control of a dexamethasone (DEX)-inducible promoter. The DEX-treated leaves of transgenic Arabidopsis induced expression of PBZ1 at transcript and protein levels and showed cell death morphology. TUNEL analysis detected DNA fragmentation, a hallmark of programmed cell death, in rice SCCs treated with the PBZ1 protein. Recombinant PBZ1 protein also exhibited RNase activity and exhibited internalization inside BY-2 cells. Taken together, PBZ1 induces cell death not only in rice, but also in tobacco and Arabidopsis via its RNase activity inside the cell. PBZ1 could be used as a marker to understand the mechanism by which PBZ1 confers the cell death morphology in rice and other model plants.
21136139	Calcium acts as a messenger in various signal transduction pathways in plants. Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) play important roles in regulating downstream components in calcium signaling pathways. In rice, the CDPKs constitute a large multigene family consisting of 29 genes, but the biological functions and functional divergence or redundancy of most of these genes remain unclear. Using a mini-scale full-length cDNA overexpressor (FOX) gene hunting system, we generated 250 independent transgenic rice plants overexpressing individual rice CDPKs (CDPK FOX-rice lines). These CDPK FOX-rice lines were screened for salt stress tolerance. The survival rate of the OsCPK21-FOX plants was higher than that of wild-type (WT) plants grown under high salinity conditions. The inhibition of seedling growth by abscisic acid (ABA) treatment was greater in the OsCPK21-FOX plants than in WT plants. Several ABA- and high salinity-inducible genes were more highly expressed in the OsCPK21-FOX plants than in WT plants. These results suggest that OsCPK21 is involved in the positive regulation of the signaling pathways that are involved in the response to ABA and salt stress.
21146515	The floral meristem is the homeostatic source of floral organs in angiosperms. In rice, after stamen and carpel differentiation, the floral meristem is terminated and exhausted to produce an ovule. To elucidate underlying mechanisms controlling the continuous process from floral meristem termination to ovule formation, we investigated two rice mutants showing abnormalities in ovule formation. In the weak mutant of the lonely guy gene, responsible for cytokinin activation to maintain the floral meristem, ovule formation was abolished inside the normally developing carpel. The loss-of-function of the OsMADS13 gene, encoding a MADS-box transcription factor, resulted in the replacement of ovule with extra carpels. The in situ expression of tissue-specific markers in both mutants revealed that a lateral region of the terminating floral meristem adjacent to the site of carpel initiation exclusively differentiated the ovule and is apparently distinct from the remainder of the floral meristem, in contrast to previous assumptions. Our findings also suggest that primordial germ cells are initiated independently of ovule formation, but dependently on the presence of active cytokinin. We propose a novel pattern of ovule formation in angiosperms, in which the ovule is a lateral organ finally differentiated from the terminating floral meristem in rice.
21205187	Phospholipase D (PLD) is involved in plant response to salt stress, but the mechanisms remain unclear. We investigated rice PLD (OsPLD) localization and its effect on tonoplast (TP) and plasma membrane (PM) H(+)-ATPase activity and transcription in response to NaCl. When rice suspension-cultured cells were treated with 100 mM NaCl, PLD activity in cell extracts showed a transient activation with a threefold increase at 1 h. The amount of OsPLD protein decreased slightly in the cytosolic fractions, whereas it increased significantly in the TP after NaCl treatment. OsPLD1 knockdown cells were developed using RNA interference (RNAi) methods. The increase in TP and PM H(+)-ATPase activity induced by NaCl was significantly inhibited in OsPLD1-RNAi cells. Knockdown of OsPLD1 prevented the NaCl-induced increase in the transcript level of OsVHA-A (encodes TP H(+)-ATPase) and OSA2 (encodes PM H(+)-ATPase), as well as OsNHX1 (encodes TP Na(+) /H(+) antiporter). The cells died more in OsPLD1-RNAi mutant than in wild type when they were treated with NaCl. These results suggest that OsPLD is involved in salt tolerance in rice through the mediation of H(+)-ATPase activity and transcription.
2121525	Using a T7 RNA polymerase promoter system, rice lipoxygenase L-2 cDNA was expressed in E. coli as a fusion protein with 18 amino acid residues at the amino terminal end of the original enzyme. Incubation at 37 degrees C for 3 h in the presence of the inducer resulted in the production of inactive lipoxygenase. However, when induction was carried out at 15 degrees C for 16 h, active lipoxygenase, amounting to 3% of the total soluble protein, was produced. The enzyme was purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation and Mono-Q column chromatography to homogeneity at a yield of 80%. Expression of this protein should permit future site-directed mutagenesis of the gene and crystallization of the enzyme.
21318369	Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) is an important source for food, feed, and possesses many agronomic attributes attractive for a biofuels feedstock. A warm season crop originating from the semi-arid tropics, sorghum is relatively susceptible to both cold and freezing stress. Enhancing the ability of sorghum to tolerate cold and freezing offers a route to expand the acreage for production, and provides a potential drought avoidance strategy during flowering, an important parameter for protection of yield. Targeted perturbation of the signal transduction pathway, that is triggered by exposure to abiotic stress in plants, has been demonstrated in model systems as an avenue to augment tolerance. Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are key players in a plant's response to environmental assaults. To test the impact of modulating CDPK activity in sorghum as a means to enhanced abiotic stress tolerance, we introduced a constitutively expressed rice CDPK-7 (OsCDPK-7) gene construct. Sorghum transformants carrying this cassette, were not improved in cold or salt stress under the conditions tested. However, a lesion mimic phenotype and up-regulation of a number of pathogen related proteins, along with transcripts linked to photosynthesis were observed. These results demonstrate that modulating the Ca signaling cascade in planta via unregulated enhanced CDPK activity can lead to off-type effects likely due to the broadly integrated nature of these enzymes in signaling.
21481190	The Oryza sativa lectin, abbreviated Orysata, is a mannose-specific, jacalin-related lectin expressed in rice plants after exposure to certain stress conditions. Expression of a fusion construct containing the rice lectin sequence linked to enhanced green fluorescent protein in Bright Yellow 2 tobacco cells revealed that Orysata is located in the nucleus and the cytoplasm of the plant cell, indicating that it belongs to the class of nucleocytoplasmic jacalin-related lectins. Since the expression level of Orysata in rice tissues is very low the lectin was expressed in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris with the Saccharomyces -factor sequence to direct the recombinant protein into the secretory pathway and express the protein into the medium. Approximately 12 mg of recombinant lectin was purified per liter medium. SDS/PAGE and western blot analysis showed that the recombinant lectin exists in two molecular forms. Far western blot analysis revealed that the 23 kDa lectin polypeptide contains an N-glycan which is absent in the 18.5 kDa polypeptide. Characterization of the glycans present in the recombinant Orysata revealed high-mannose structures, Man9-11 glycans being the most abundant. Glycan array analysis showed that Orysata interacts with high-mannose as well as with more complex N-glycan structures. Orysata has potent anti-human immunodeficiency virus and anti-respiratory syncytial virus activity in cell culture compared with other jacalin-related lectins.
21495624	The ability of ferrous hemoglobins to reduce nitrite to form nitric oxide has been demonstrated for hemoglobins from animals, including myoglobin, blood cell hemoglobin, neuroglobin, and cytoglobin. In all cases, the rate constants for the bimolecular reactions with nitrite are relatively slow, with maximal values of ~5 M(-1) s(-1) at pH 7. Combined with the relatively low concentrations of nitrite found in animal blood plasma (normally no greater than 13 M), these slow reaction rates are unlikely to contribute significantly to hemoglobin oxidation, nitrite reduction, or NO production. Plants and cyanobacteria, however, must contend with much higher (millimolar) nitrite concentrations necessitated by assimilatory nitrogen metabolism during hypoxic growth, such as the conditions commonly found during flooding or in waterlogged soil. Here we report rate constants for nitrite reduction by a ferrous plant hemoglobin (rice nonsymbiotic hemoglobin 1) and a ferrous cyanobacterial hemoglobin from Synechocystis that are more than 10 times faster than those observed for animal hemoglobins. These rate constants, along with the relatively high concentrations of nitrite present during hypoxia, suggest that plant and cyanobacterial hemoglobins could serve as anaerobic nitrite reductases in vivo.
2152105	Protein changes induced by salinity stress were investigated in the roots of the salt-sensitive rice cultivar Taichung native 1. We found eight proteins to be induced and obtained partial sequences of one with a molecular mass of 15 kilodaltons and an isoelectric point of 5.5. Using an oligonucleotide probe based on this information, a cDNA clone, salT, was selected and found to contain an open reading frame coding for a protein of 145 amino acid residues. salT mRNA accumulates very rapidly in sheaths and roots from mature plants and seedlings upon treatment with Murashige and Skoog salts (1%), air drying, abscisic acid (20 microM), polyethylene glycol (5%), sodium chloride (1%), and potassium chloride (1%). Generally, no induction was seen in the leaf lamina even when the stress should affect all parts of the plant uniformly. The organ-specific response of salT is correlatable with the pattern of Na+ accumulation during salt stress.
21526825	The gene products of AK121211, AK066327, and AK070534 from Oryza sativa encode cycloartenol, parkeol, and achilleol B synthases, respectively. Parkeol synthase is a unique enzyme that affords parkeol as a single product. Achilleol B synthase is the third seco-type triterpene cyclase identified to date, and triterpenes produced by this synthase include achilleol B (90%), tetracyclic (5.12%) and pentacyclic scaffolds (4.37%), and unidentified triterpenes (0.51%). The pathway for achilleol B biosynthesis is proposed.
21595879	The arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis consists of a mutualistic relationship between soil fungi and roots of most plant species. This association provides the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus with sugars while the fungus improves the uptake of water and mineral nutrients in the host plant. Then, the establishment of the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis requires the fine tuning of host gene expression for recognition and accommodation of the fungal symbiont. In plants, calcium plays a key role as second messenger during developmental processes and responses to environmental stimuli. Even though calcium transients are known to occur in host cells during the AM symbiosis, the decoding of the calcium signal and the molecular events downstream are only poorly understood. The expression of seventeen Calcium-dependent Protein Kinase (CPK) genes representative of the four distinct phylogenetic groups of rice CPKs was monitored during the presymbiotic phase of the AM symbiosis. Among them, OsCPK18 and OsCPK4, were found to be transcriptionally activated in response to inoculation with the AM fungus Glomus intraradices. OsCPK18 and OsCPK4 gene expression was also up-regulated by fungal-produced diffusible molecules. Laser microdissection revealed expression of OsCPK18 in cortical cells, and not in epidermal cells of G. intraradices-inoculated rice roots, suggesting a preferential role of this gene in the root cortex. Moreover, a plasma membrane localization of OsCPK18 was observed by transient expression assays of green fluorescent protein-tagged OsCPK18 in onion epidermal cells. We also show that the myristoylation site of the OsCPK18 N-terminus is required for plasma membrane targeting. The rapid activation of OsCPK18 expression in response to AM inoculation, its expression being also induced by fungal-secreted signals, together with the observed plasma membrane localization of OsCPK18, points to a role for OsCPK18 in perception of the AM fungus. The OsCPK18 gene might be considered as a marker for the presymbiotic phase of the symbiotic process. These findings provide a better understanding of the signaling mechanisms operating during the AM symbiosis and will greatly facilitate their molecular dissection.
21610181	Members of class II of the HKT transporters, which have thus far only been isolated from grasses, were found to mediate Na(+)-K(+) cotransport and at high Na(+) concentrations preferred Na(+)-selective transport, depending on the ionic conditions. But the physiological functions of this K(+)-transporting class II of HKT transporters remain unknown in plants, with the exception of the unique class II Na(+) transporter OsHKT2;1. The genetically tractable rice (Oryza sativa; background Nipponbare) possesses two predicted K(+)-transporting class II HKT transporter genes, OsHKT2;3 and OsHKT2;4. In this study, we have characterized the ion selectivity of the class II rice HKT transporter OsHKT2;4 in yeast and Xenopus laevis oocytes. OsHKT2;4 rescued the growth defect of a K(+) uptake-deficient yeast mutant. Green fluorescent protein-OsHKT2;4 is targeted to the plasma membrane in transgenic plant cells. OsHKT2;4-expressing oocytes exhibited strong K(+) permeability. Interestingly, however, K(+) influx in OsHKT2;4-expressing oocytes did not require stimulation by extracellular Na(+), in contrast to other class II HKT transporters. Furthermore, OsHKT2;4-mediated currents exhibited permeabilities to both Mg(2+) and Ca(2+) in the absence of competing K(+) ions. Comparative analyses of Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) permeabilities in several HKT transporters, including Arabidopsis thaliana HKT1;1 (AtHKT1;1), Triticum aestivum HKT2;1 (TaHKT2;1), OsHKT2;1, OsHKT2;2, and OsHKT2;4, revealed that only OsHKT2;4 and to a lesser degree TaHKT2;1 mediate Mg(2+) transport. Interestingly, cation competition analyses demonstrate that the selectivity of both of these class II HKT transporters for K(+) is dominant over divalent cations, suggesting that Mg(2+) and Ca(2+) transport via OsHKT2;4 may be small and would depend on competing K(+) concentrations in plants.
21767393	Switchgrass, a C4 species and a warm-season grass native to the prairies of North America, has been targeted for development into an herbaceous biomass fuel crop. Genetic improvement of switchgrass feedstock traits through marker-assisted breeding and biotechnology approaches calls for genomic tools development. Establishment of integrated physical and genetic maps for switchgrass will accelerate mapping of value added traits useful to breeding programs and to isolate important target genes using map based cloning. The reported polyploidy series in switchgrass ranges from diploid (2X = 18) to duodecaploid (12X = 108). Like in other large, repeat-rich plant genomes, this genomic complexity will hinder whole genome sequencing efforts. An extensive physical map providing enough information to resolve the homoeologous genomes would provide the necessary framework for accurate assembly of the switchgrass genome. A switchgrass BAC library constructed by partial digestion of nuclear DNA with EcoRI contains 147,456 clones covering the effective genome approximately 10 times based on a genome size of 3.2 Gigabases (~1.6 Gb effective). Restriction digestion and PFGE analysis of 234 randomly chosen BACs indicated that 95% of the clones contained inserts, ranging from 60 to 180 kb with an average of 120 kb. Comparative sequence analysis of two homoeologous genomic regions harboring orthologs of the rice OsBRI1 locus, a low-copy gene encoding a putative protein kinase and associated with biomass, revealed that orthologous clones from homoeologous chromosomes can be unambiguously distinguished from each other and correctly assembled to respective fingerprint contigs. Thus, the data obtained not only provide genomic resources for further analysis of switchgrass genome, but also improve efforts for an accurate genome sequencing strategy. The construction of the first switchgrass BAC library and comparative analysis of homoeologous harboring OsBRI1 orthologs present a glimpse into the switchgrass genome structure and complexity. Data obtained demonstrate the feasibility of using HICF fingerprinting to resolve the homoeologous chromosomes of the two distinct genomes in switchgrass, providing a robust and accurate BAC-based physical platform for this species. The genomic resources and sequence data generated will lay the foundation for deciphering the switchgrass genome and lead the way for an accurate genome sequencing strategy.
21807436	Pheophorbide a oxygenase (PAO) and red chlorophyll catabolite reductase (RCCR) catalyze key steps in chlorophyll degradation by opening the porphyrin macrocycle of pheophorbide a and forming the primary non-photoreactive fluorescent chlorophyll catabolite. These genes strongly participate in senescence and reportedly involved in plants' responses to physical wounding and pathogens. In this report, a single PAO gene (OsPAO) and two RCCR genes (OsRCCR1 and OsRCCR2) have been isolated from rice. Expression analysis by semi-quantitative PCR or quantitative real-time PCR showed that OsRCCR1 transcripts were much more abundant than OsRCCR2, and all of these genes were upregulated during senescence and following wound treatment. RNA interference knockdown of OsPAO led to pheophorbide a accumulation in leaves (especially dark-induced senescent leaves) and leaf death from regeneration stage onwards, even transgenic plants inviability after transplantation. While, knockdown of OsRCCR1 resulted in lesion-mimic spots generation in older leaves which died off early in the transgenic plants. These results suggest that OsPAO and OsRCCR1 play key roles in senescence and are involved in wound responses.
21834856	The rice sucrose synthase 1 (RSus1) gene is transcriptionally induced by sucrose, and a region within its promoter, at -1117 to -958 upstream of the transcription initiation site, was found to be essential for enhancing the sucrose-induced expression. Further dissection of this region revealed that a group of nuclear proteins interact with a 39-bp fragment named A-3-2 (-1045 to -1007). A protein that specifically and directly interacted with A-3-2 was isolated from the suspension-cultured cells of rice and was subsequently identified as a purine-rich DNA-binding protein. The amino acid sequence of this protein, OsPur, exhibited 73% identity with the Arabidopsis Pur-1 protein, and its modeled structure resembled the structure of Pur- in Drosophila. Recombinant OsPur expressed and purified from Escherichia coli was demonstrated to have DNA-binding activity and to interact with A-3-2 specifically. Moreover, OsPur was able to enhance sucrose-induced expression of the -glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene, which was transcriptionally fused to two copies of a DNA fragment containing A-3-2 and the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S minimal promoter, in vivo. The level of OsPur bound to A-3-2 was higher in cells cultured in the presence of sucrose; however, the level of OsPur mRNA in cells was not affected by sucrose. The results of this study demonstrate that OsPur participates in the regulation of RSus1 expression in response to sucrose; nevertheless, it may require other partner proteins for full function.
21930802	The rice disease resistance (R) gene Xa3/Xa26 (having also been named Xa3 and Xa26) against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), which causes bacterial blight disease, belongs to a multiple gene family clustered in chromosome 11 and is from an AA genome rice cultivar (Oryza sativa L.). This family encodes leucine-rich repeat (LRR) receptor kinase-type proteins. Here, we show that the orthologs (alleles) of Xa3/Xa26, Xa3/Xa26-2, and Xa3/Xa26-3, from wild Oryza species O. officinalis (CC genome) and O. minuta (BBCC genome), respectively, were also R genes against Xoo. Xa3/Xa26-2 and Xa3/Xa26-3 conferred resistance to 16 of the 18 Xoo strains examined. Comparative sequence analysis of the Xa3/Xa26 families in the two wild Oryza species showed that Xa3/Xa26-3 appeared to have originated from the CC genome of O. minuta. The predicted proteins encoded by Xa3/Xa26, Xa3/Xa26-2, and Xa3/Xa26-3 share 91-99% sequence identity and 94-99% sequence similarity. Transgenic plants carrying a single copy of Xa3/Xa26, Xa3/Xa26-2, or Xa3/Xa26-3, in the same genetic background, showed a similar resistance spectrum to a set of Xoo strains, although plants carrying Xa3/Xa26-2 or Xa3/Xa26-3 showed lower resistance levels than the plants carrying Xa3/Xa26. These results suggest that the Xa3/Xa26 locus predates the speciation of A and C genome, which is approximately 7.5 million years ago. Thus, the resistance specificity of this locus has been conserved for a long time.
22043312	The Pi-ta gene in rice has been effectively used to control rice blast disease caused by Magnaporthe oryzae worldwide. Despite a number of studies that reported the Pi-ta gene in domesticated rice and wild species, little is known about how the Pi-ta gene has evolved in US weedy rice, a major weed of rice. To investigate the genome organization of the Pi-ta gene in weedy rice and its relationship to gene flow between cultivated and weedy rice in the US, we analyzed nucleotide sequence variation at the Pi-ta gene and its surrounding 2 Mb region in 156 weedy, domesticated and wild rice relatives. We found that the region at and around the Pi-ta gene shows very low genetic diversity in US weedy rice. The patterns of molecular diversity in weeds are more similar to cultivated rice (indica and aus), which have never been cultivated in the US, rather than the wild rice species, Oryza rufipogon. In addition, the resistant Pi-ta allele (Pi-ta) found in the majority of US weedy rice belongs to the weedy group strawhull awnless (SH), suggesting a single source of origin for Pi-ta. Weeds with Pi-ta were resistant to two M. oryzae races, IC17 and IB49, except for three accessions, suggesting that component(s) required for the Pi-ta mediated resistance may be missing in these accessions. Signatures of flanking sequences of the Pi-ta gene and SSR markers on chromosome 12 suggest that the susceptible pi-ta allele (pi-ta), not Pi-ta, has been introgressed from cultivated to weedy rice by out-crossing.
22080728	Plants often face hypoxic stress as a result of flooding and waterlogged soils. During these periods, they must continue ATP production and nitrogen metabolism if they are to survive. The normal pathway of reductive nitrogen assimilation in non-legumes, nitrate, and nitrite reductase can be inhibited during low oxygen conditions that are associated with the buildup of toxic metabolites such as nitrite and nitric oxide, so the plant must also have a means of detoxifying these molecules. Compared to animal hemoglobins, plant and cyanobacterial hemoglobins are adept at reducing nitrite to nitric oxide under anaerobic conditions. Here we test their abilities to reduce hydroxylamine, a proposed intermediate of nitrite reductase, under anaerobic conditions. We find that class 1 rice nonsymbiotic hemoglobin (rice nsHb1) and the hemoglobin from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis (SynHb) catalyze the reduction of hydroxylamine to ammonium at rates 100-2500 times faster than animal hemoglobins including myoglobin, neuroglobin, cytoglobin, and blood cell hemoglobin. These results support the hypothesis that plant and cyanobacterial hemoglobins contribute to anaerobic nitrogen metabolism in support of anaerobic respiration and survival during hypoxia.
22085497	Rice Xa3/Xa26 disease-resistance gene encodes a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) receptor kinase-type protein against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) and belongs to a multigene family. However, the functions of most genes in this family are unknown. Here we report that two orthologs of this family, the NRKe from rice variety Nipponbare and 9RKe from variety 93-11 at the RKe locus, have similar functions although they encode different proteins. This pair of orthologs could not mediate resistance to Xoo, but they were transcriptionally induced by raised temperature. Transcriptional activation of NRKe or 9RKe resulted in the formation of temperature-sensitive lesion mimics, which were spots of dead cells associated with accumulation of superoxides, in different organs of the transgenic plants. These plants were more sensitive to high temperature shock than wild-type controls. Transgenic plants carrying a chimeric protein consisting of the LRR domain of NRKe and the kinase domain of Xa3/Xa26 developed the same lesion mimics as the NRKe-transgenic plants, whereas transgenic plants carrying another chimeric protein consisting of the LRR domain of Xa3/Xa26 and the kinase domain of NRKe were free of lesion mimic. All the transgenic plants carrying a chimeric protein were susceptible to Xoo. These results suggest that the RKe locus is involved in rice response to raised temperature. The LRR domain of RKe protein appears to be important to sense increased temperature. The RKe-involved temperature-related pathway and Xa3/Xa26-mediated disease-resistance pathway may partially overlap.
22150097	Triterpenes are one of the largest classes of plant metabolites and have important functions. A diverse array of triterpenoid skeletons are synthesized via the isoprenoid pathway by enzymatic cyclization of 2,3-oxidosqualene. The genomes of the lower plants Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and moss (Physcomitrella patens) contain just one oxidosqualene cyclase (OSC) gene (for sterol biosynthesis), whereas the genomes of higher plants contain nine to 16 OSC genes. Here we carry out functional analysis of rice OSCs and rigorous phylogenetic analysis of 96 OSCs from higher plants, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor and Brachypodium distachyon. The functional analysis identified an amino acid sequence for isoarborinol synthase (OsIAS) (encoded by Os11g35710/OsOSC11) in rice. Our phylogenetic analysis suggests that expansion of OSC members in higher plants has occurred mainly through tandem duplication followed by positive selection and diversifying evolution, and consolidated the previous suggestion that dicot triterpene synthases have been derived from an ancestral lanosterol synthase instead of directly from their cycloartenol synthases. The phylogenetic trees are consistent with the reaction mechanisms of the protosteryl and dammarenyl cations which parent a wide variety of triterpene skeletal types, allowing us to predict the functions of the uncharacterized OSCs.
22207572	Self-maintenance of the shoot apical meristem (SAM), from which aerial organs are formed throughout the life cycle, is crucial in plant development. Class I Knotted1-like homeobox (KNOX) genes restrict cell differentiation and play an indispensable role in maintaining the SAM. However, the mechanism that positively regulates their expression is unknown. Here, we show that expression of a rice (Oryza sativa) KNOX gene, Oryza sativa homeobox1 (OSH1), is positively regulated by direct autoregulation. Interestingly, loss-of-function mutants of OSH1 lose the SAM just after germination but can be rescued to grow until reproductive development when they are regenerated from callus. Double mutants of osh1 and d6, a loss-of-function mutant of OSH15, fail to establish the SAM both in embryogenesis and regeneration. Expression analyses in these mutants reveal that KNOX gene expression is positively regulated by the phytohormone cytokinin and by KNOX genes themselves. We demonstrate that OSH1 directly binds to five KNOX loci, including OSH1 and OSH15, through evolutionarily conserved cis-elements and that the positive autoregulation of OSH1 is indispensable for its own expression and SAM maintenance. Thus, the maintenance of the indeterminate state mediated by positive autoregulation of a KNOX gene is an indispensable mechanism of self-maintenance of the SAM.
22434195	Rice MONOCULM 1 (MOC1) and its orthologues LS/LAS (lateral suppressor in tomato and Arabidopsis) are key promoting factors of shoot branching and tillering in higher plants. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating MOC1/LS/LAS have remained elusive. Here we show that the rice tiller enhancer (te) mutant displays a drastically increased tiller number. We demonstrate that TE encodes a rice homologue of Cdh1, and that TE acts as an activator of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) complex. We show that TE coexpresses with MOC1 in the axil of leaves, where the APC/C(TE) complex mediates the degradation of MOC1 by the ubiquitin-26S proteasome pathway, and consequently downregulates the expression of the meristem identity gene Oryza sativa homeobox 1, thus repressing axillary meristem initiation and formation. We conclude that besides having a conserved role in regulating cell cycle, APC/C(TE) has a unique function in regulating the plant-specific postembryonic shoot branching and tillering, which are major determinants of plant architecture and grain yield.
22456953	The plant hormone jasmonic acid (JA) regulates various developmental processes and plant defence responses to environmental stresses. We previously reported that RERJ1, a JA-inducible transcription factor in rice, is up-regulated by exposure to wounding and drought stress. Here, we demonstrated that the expression of RERJ1 after wounding is regulated in a JA-dependent manner in rice, based on histochemical analysis of RERJ1 promoter-GUS transgenic plants. RERJ1 expression was induced only at the region of injury after wounding, whereas expression was induced in the entire leaf after drought. According to JA measurements of stressed leaves, high accumulation of endogenous JA was only detected around the wound site in a rice leaves, whereas the drought treatment led to uniform accumulation of JA in the entire leaf, suggesting that RERJ1 will be a useful marker gene for studies on localization of JA in rice. Nuclear localization and transactivation ability of RERJ1 were also demonstrated. These results suggest that RERJ1 plays a role as a transcriptional activator for regulating stress-inducible gene expression, with a strong correlation to JA accumulation in the stressed region.
22530609	We have investigated OsHKT2;1 natural variation in a collection of 49 cultivars with different levels of salt tolerance and geographical origins. The effect of identified polymorphism on OsHKT2;1 activity was analysed through heterologous expression of variants in Xenopus oocytes. OsHKT2;1 appeared to be a highly conserved protein with only five possible amino acid substitutions that have no substantial effect on functional properties. Our study, however, also identified a new HKT isoform, No-OsHKT2;2/1 in Nona Bokra, a highly salt-tolerant cultivar. No-OsHKT2;2/1 probably originated from a deletion in chromosome 6, producing a chimeric gene. Its 5' region corresponds to that of OsHKT2;2, whose full-length sequence is not present in Nipponbare but has been identified in Pokkali, a salt-tolerant rice cultivar. Its 3' region corresponds to that of OsHKT2;1. No-OsHKT2;2/1 is essentially expressed in roots and displays a significant level of expression at high Na concentrations, in contrast to OsHKT2;1. Expressed in Xenopus oocytes or in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, No-OsHKT2;2/1 exhibited a strong permeability to Na and K, even at high external Na concentrations, like OsHKT2;2, and in contrast to OsHKT2;1. Our results suggest that No-OsHKT2;2/1 can contribute to Nona Bokra salt tolerance by enabling root K uptake under saline conditions.
22672582	Rice Xa21 gene encodes a receptor-like kinase that confers broad-spectrum resistance against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Recently, a number of genes involved in the Xa21-mediated disease resistance pathway have been identified. Based on our previous data and the literature, we chose 16 candidate proteins and made corresponding antibodies. Using Western blotting, we systematically investigated the expression profile of the proteins in Xa21-mediated disease resistance response. We found nine proteins with altered expression. We further compared their expression in resistance, susceptible and mock responses, and found that GST expression was up-regulated during the resistance process, indicating GST is a positive regulator in resistance responses. ATPsB expression was down-regulated during both the resistance and susceptible response processes, although it was higher in the resistance response than that in the susceptible response. The total amount of MYB, GAPDH, CatB, Trx and NB-ARC proteins was lower in the resistance than in the susceptible response, but their abundance per unit bacteria in the resistance response was still higher than in the susceptible response, suggesting that these proteins might be positive regulators in the resistance response. In addition, expression of another ERF was induced by inoculation with bacterial blight pathogen, and expression of Zf-LSD1 was activated by wounding stress alone. Interestingly, most proteins showed similar altered expression patterns in the resistance and susceptible responses, but differed to some extents, implying that both responses might share common molecular mechanisms. This study revealed evidence of resistance-related protein expression, providing a foundation for better understanding of their functions.
22685088	The effects of low air humidity and low root temperature (LRT) on water uptake, growth and aquaporin gene expression were investigated in rice plants. The daily transpiration of the plants grown at low humidity was 1.5- to 2-fold higher than that at high humidity. LRT at 13C reduced transpiration, and the extent was larger at lower humidity. LRT also reduced total dry matter production and leaf area expansion, and the extent was again larger at lower humidity. These observations suggest that the suppression of plant growth by LRT is associated with water stress due to decreased water uptake ability of the root. On the other hand, the net assimilation rate was not affected by low humidity and LRT, and water use efficiency was larger for LRT. We found that low humidity induced coordinated up-regulation of many PIP and TIP aquaporin genes in both the leaves and the roots. Expression levels of two root-specific aquaporin genes, OsPIP2;4 and OsPIP2;5, were increased significantly after 6 and 13 d of LRT exposure. Taken together, we discuss the possibility that aquaporins are part of an integrated response of this crop to low air humidity and LRT.
22773759	The family of plant membrane transporters named HKT (for high-affinity K(+) transporters) can be subdivided into subfamilies 1 and 2, which, respectively, comprise Na(+)-selective transporters and transporters able to function as Na(+)-K(+) symporters, at least when expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) or Xenopus oocytes. Surprisingly, a subfamily 2 member from rice (Oryza sativa), OsHKT2;4, has been proposed to form cation/K(+) channels or transporters permeable to Ca(2+) when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Here, OsHKT2;4 functional properties were reassessed in Xenopus oocytes. A Ca(2+) permeability through OsHKT2;4 was not detected, even at very low external K(+) concentration, as shown by highly negative OsHKT2;4 zero-current potential in high Ca(2+) conditions and lack of sensitivity of OsHKT2;4 zero-current potential and conductance to external Ca(2+). The Ca(2+) permeability previously attributed to OsHKT2;4 probably resulted from activation of an endogenous oocyte conductance. OsHKT2;4 displayed a high permeability to K(+) compared with that to Na(+) (permeability sequence: K(+) > Rb(+)  Cs(+) > Na(+)  Li(+)  NH(4)(+)). Examination of OsHKT2;4 current sensitivity to external pH suggested that H(+) is not significantly permeant through OsHKT2;4 in most physiological ionic conditions. Further analyses in media containing both Na(+) and K(+) indicated that OsHKT2;4 functions as K(+)-selective transporter at low external Na(+), but transports also Na(+) at high (>10 mm) Na(+) concentrations. These data identify OsHKT2;4 as a new functional type in the K(+) and Na(+)-permeable HKT transporter subfamily. Furthermore, the high permeability to K(+) in OsHKT2;4 supports the hypothesis that this system is dedicated to K(+) transport in the plant.
22843666	Posttranscriptional gene silencing (PTGS) is a sequence-specific mRNA degradation caused by small RNA, such as microRNA (miRNA) and small interfering RNA (siRNA). miRNAs are generated from MIRNA loci, whereas siRNAs originate from various sources of double-stranded RNA. In this study, an artificial RNA silencing inducible sequence (RSIS) was identified in rice (Oryza sativa). This sequence causes PTGS of 5' or 3' flanking-sequence-containing genes. Interestingly, two target genes can be simultaneously suppressed by linking a unique target sequence to either the 5' or 3' end of RSIS. Multiple gene suppression can be also achieved though a single transformation event by incorporating the multisite gateway system. Moreover, RSIS-mediated PTGS occurs in nuclei. Deep sequencing of small RNAs reveals that siRNAs are produced from RSIS-expressing cassettes and transitive siRNAs are produced from endogenous target genes. Furthermore, siRNAs are typically generated from untranscribed transgene terminator regions. The read-through transcripts from the RSIS-expression cassette were consistently observed, and most of these sequences were not polyadenylated. Collectively, this data indicates that RSIS inhibits proper transcription termination. The resulting transcripts are not polyadenylated. These transcripts containing RSIS become templates for double-stranded RNA synthesis in nuclei. This is followed by siRNA production and target degradation of target genes.
22892331	Oil bodies of similar sizes were observed in the cells of embryo and aleurone layer of rice seeds, and remained their structural integrity in vitro after isolation. Comparably, two abundant oleosin isoforms were found in both preparations of oil bodies isolated from the embryo and the aleurone layer. Immunological detection and mass spectrometric analyses indicated that the two oleosin isoforms, termed oleosin-H and oleosin-L, in the embryo and those in the aleurone layer were identical proteins encoded by the same genes (BAF12898.1 and BAF15387.1 for oleosin-H and oleosin-L, respectively). In contrast, one caleosin was found in oil bodies isolated from the embryo but not those isolated from the aleurone layer. Immunological staining of rice seeds confirms that oleosin is present in both embryo and aleurone layer while caleosin exists only in embryo. Caleosin extracted from oil bodies of rice embryo migrated faster on SDS-PAGE in the presence of Ca(2+), in a manner identical to caleosin extracted from sesame oil bodies. Similar to other known monocot caleosins, the rice caleosin possesses an N-terminal appendix that is absent in dicotyledonous caleosins.
22968911	A pair of GOLDEN2-LIKE transcription factors is required for normal chloroplast development in land plant species that encompass the range from bryophytes to angiosperms. In the C(4) plant maize, compartmentalized function of the two GLK genes in bundle sheath and mesophyll cells regulates dimorphic chloroplast differentiation, whereas in the C(3) plants Physcomitrella patens and Arabidopsis thaliana the genes act redundantly in all photosynthetic cells. To assess whether the cell-specific function of GLK genes is unique to maize, we analyzed gene expression patterns in the C(4) monocot Sorghum bicolor and C(4) eudicot Cleome gynandra. Compartmentalized expression was observed in S. bicolor, consistent with the development of dimorphic chloroplasts in this species, but not in C. gynandra where bundle sheath and mesophyll chloroplasts are morphologically similar. The generation of single and double mutants demonstrated that GLK genes function redundantly in rice, as in other C(3) plants, despite the fact that GLK gene duplication in monocots preceded the speciation of rice, maize and sorghum. Together with phylogenetic analyses of GLK gene sequences, these data have allowed speculation on the evolutionary trajectory of GLK function. Based on current evidence, most species that retain single GLK genes belong to orders that contain only C(3) species. We therefore propose that the ancestral state is a single GLK gene, and hypothesize that GLK gene duplication enabled sub-functionalization, which in turn enabled cell-specific function in C(4) plants with dimorphic chloroplasts. In this scenario, GLK gene duplication preconditioned the evolution of C(4) physiology that is associated with chloroplast dimorphism.
23109182	Oshox22 belongs to the homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) family I of transcription factors, most of which have unknown functions. Here we show that the expression of Oshox22 is strongly induced by salt stress, abscisic acid (ABA), and polyethylene glycol treatment (PEG), and weakly by cold stress. Trans-activation assays in yeast and transient expression analyses in rice protoplasts demonstrated that Oshox22 is able to bind the CAAT(G/C)ATTG element and acts as a transcriptional activator that requires both the HD and Zip domains. Rice plants homozygous for a T-DNA insertion in the promoter region of Oshox22 showed reduced Oshox22 expression and ABA content, decreased sensitivity to ABA, and enhanced tolerance to drought and salt stresses at the seedling stage. In contrast, transgenic rice over-expressing Oshox22 showed increased sensitivity to ABA, increased ABA content, and decreased drought and salt tolerances. Based on these results, we conclude that Oshox22 affects ABA biosynthesis and regulates drought and salt responses through ABA-mediated signal transduction pathways.
23146214	The phytohormones auxins and brassinosteroids are both essential regulators of physiological and developmental processes, and it has been suggested that they act inter-dependently and synergistically. In rice (Oryza sativa), auxin co-application improves the brassinosteroid response in the rice lamina inclination bioassay. Here, we showed that auxins stimulate brassinosteroid perception by regulating the level of brassinosteroid receptor. Auxin treatment increased expression of the rice brassinosteroid receptor gene OsBRI1. The promoter of OsBRI1 contains an auxin-response element (AuxRE) that is targeted by auxin-response factor (ARF) transcription factors. An AuxRE mutation abolished the induction of OsBRI1 expression by auxins, and OsBRI1 expression was down-regulated in an arf mutant. The AuxRE motif in the OsBRI1 promoter, and thus the transient up-regulation of OsBRI1 expression caused by treatment with indole-3-acetic acid, is essential for the indole-3-acetic acid-induced increase in sensitivity to brassinosteroids. These findings demonstrate that some ARFs control the degree of brassinosteroid perception required for normal growth and development in rice. Although multi-level interactions between auxins and brassinosteroids have previously been reported, our findings suggest a mechanism by which auxins control cellular sensitivity to brassinosteroids, and further support the notion that interactions between auxins and brassinosteroids are extensive and complex.
23206229	Plant genomes encode a large number of proteins that potentially function as immune receptors in the defense against pathogen invasion. As a well-characterized receptor kinase consisting of 23 tandem leucine-rich repeats, a transmembrane domain and a serine/threonine kinase, the rice (Oryza sativa) protein XA21 confers resistance to a broad spectrum of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) races that cause bacterial blight disease. We report here that XA21 binding protein 25 (XB25) belongs to the plant-specific ankyrin-repeat (PANK) family. XB25 physically interacts, in vitro, with the transmembrane domain of XA21 through its N-terminal binding to transmembrane and positively charged domain (BTMP) repeats. In addition, XB25 associates with XA21 in planta. The downregulation of Xb25 results in reduced levels of XA21 and compromised XA21-mediated disease resistance at the adult stage. Moreover, the accumulation of XB25 is induced by Xoo infection. Taken together, these results indicate that XB25 is required for maintaining XA21-mediated disease resistance.
23234404	Hormone crosstalk is pivotal in plant-pathogen interactions. Here, we report on the accumulation of cytokinins (CK) in rice seedlings after infection of blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae and its potential significance in rice-M. oryzae interaction. Blast infection to rice seedlings increased levels of N(6)-((2)-isopentenyl) adenine (iP), iP riboside (iPR), and iPR 5'-phosphates (iPRP) in leaf blades. Consistent with this, CK signaling was activated around the infection sites, as shown by histochemical staining for -glucuronidase activity driven by a CK-responsive OsRR6 promoter. Diverse CK species were also detected in the hyphae (mycelium), conidia, and culture filtrates of blast fungus, indicating that M. oryzae is capable of production as well as hyphal secretion of CK. Co-treatment of leaf blades with CK and salicylic acid (SA), but not with either one alone, markedly induced pathogenesis-related genes OsPR1b and probenazole-induced protein 1 (PBZ1). These effects were diminished by RNAi-knockdown of OsNPR1 or WRKY45, the key regulators of the SA signaling pathway in rice, indicating that the effects of CK depend on these two regulators. Taken together, our data imply a coevolutionary rice-M. oryzae interaction, wherein M. oryzae probably elevates rice CK levels for its own benefits such as nutrient translocation. Rice plants, on the other hand, sense it as an infection signal and activate defense reactions through the synergistic action with SA.
23265324	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are steroid hormones that participate in multiple biological processes. In this paper, we characterized a classic rice mutant Fn189 (dwarf54, d54) showing semi-dwarf stature and erect leaves. The coleoptile elongation and root growth was less affected in Fn189 than wild-type plant by the exogenous application of eBL, the most active form of BRs. Lamina joint inclination assay and morphological analysis in darkness further showed that Fn189 mutant plant was insensitive to exogenous eBL. Through map-based cloning, Fn189 was found to be a novel allelic mutant of the DWARF 61 (D61) gene, which encodes the putative BRs receptor OsBRI1. A single base mutation caused the I834F substitution in the OsBRI1 kinase domain. Consequently, kinase activity of OsBRI1 was found to decrease dramatically. Taken together, the kinase activity of OsBRI1 is essential for brassinosteroids to regulate normal plant growth and development in rice.
23334472	A gene encoding the carboxymethylcellulase (CMCase) of a marine bacterium, Bacillus subtilis subsp. subtilis A-53, was cloned in Escherichia coli JMB109 and the recombinant strain was named as E. coli JMB109/A-53. The optimal conditions of rice bran, ammonium chloride, and initial pH of the medium for cell growth, extracted by Design Expert Software based on response surface methodology, were 100.0 g/l, 7.5 g/l, and 7.0, respectively, whereas those for production of CMCase were 100.0 g/l, 7.5 g/l, and 8.0. The optimal temperatures for cell growth and the production of CMCase by E. coli JM109/A-53 were found to be and 40 and 35 C, respectively. The optimal agitation speed and aeration rate of a 7 l bioreactor for cell growth were 400 rpm and 1.5 vvm, whereas those for production of CMCase were 400 rpm and 0.5 vvm. The optimal inner pressure for cell growth was 0.06 MPa, which was the same as that for production of CMCase. The production of CMCase by E. coli JM109/A-53 under optimized conditions was 880.2 U/ml, which was 2.9 times higher than that before optimization. In this study, rice bran and ammonium chloride were developed as carbon and nitrogen source for production of CMCase by a recombinant E. coli JM109/A-53 and the productivity of E. coli JM109/A-53 was 5.9 times higher than that of B. subtilis subp. subtilis A-53.
23456295	We previously reported that OsERG1 and OsERG3 encode rice small C2-domain proteins with different biochemical properties in Ca(2+)- and phospholipid-binding assays. Os-ERG1 exhibited Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid binding, which was not observed with OsERG3. In the present study, we show that both OsERG1 and OsERG3 proteins exhibit oligomerization properties as determined by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and glutaraldehyde cross-linking experiments. Furthermore, in vitro phosphorylation assays reveal the phosphorylation of OsERG1 and OsERG3 by a rice calcium-dependent protein kinase, OsCDPK5. Our mutation analysis on putative serine phosphorylation sites shows that the first serine (Ser) at position 41 of OsERG1 may be an essential residue for phosphorylation by OsCDPK5. Mutation of Ser41 to alanine (OsERG1S41A) and aspartate (OsERG1S41D) abolishes the ability of OsERG1 to bind phospholipids regardless of the presence or absence of Ca(2+) ions. In addition, unlike the OsERG1 wild-type form, the mutant OsERG1 (S41A)::smGFP construct lost the ability to translocate from the cytosol to the plasma membrane in response to calcium ions or fungal elicitor. These results indicate that Ser41 may be essential for the function of OsERG1.
23818197	Rice blast is one of the important diseases of rice which can be effectively managed by the deployment of resistance genes. Pi-ta is one of the major blast resistant genes effective against pathogen populations in different parts of India. We analysed allelic variants of Pi-ta from 48 rice lines selected after phenotyping of 529 rice landraces across three eco-geographical blast hot spot regions. Besides, Pi-ta orthologue sequences of 220 rice accessions belonging to wild and cultivated species of rice were also included in the study for a better evo-devo perspective of the diversity present in the gene and the selection pressures acting on this locus. We obtained high nucleotide variations (SNPs and insertion-deletions) in the intronic region. We also identified 64 haplotypes based on nucleotide polymorphism in these alleles. Pi-ta orthologues of Indian landraces were scattered in eight major haplotypes indicating its heterogenous nature. We identified a total of 47 different Pi-ta protein variants on the basis of deduced amino acid residues amongst the orthologues. Five unique and novel Pi-ta variants were identified for the first time in rice landraces exhibiting different reaction types against the Magnaporthe oryzae population. A high value of Pi(non/syn) was observed only in the leucine-rich domain of the alleles cloned from Indian landraces, indicating strong selective forces acting on this region. The detailed molecular analysis of the Pi-ta orthologues provides insights to a high degree of inter- and intraspecific relationships amongst the Oryza species. We identified rice landraces possessing the effective alleles of this resistance gene which can be used in future blast resistance breeding programmes.
23849113	Plant genomes contain large number of plasma membrane (PM)-localized immune receptors, also called pattern recognition receptors (PRRs). PRRs are synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and then translocated to the PM, where they recognize conserved pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and activate innate immune response. The rice XA21 immune receptor confers resistance to the Gram-negative bacterial pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). To identify components that mediate XA21-mediated signaling, we performed co-purification experiments using C-terminal GFP tagged XA21 protein. Several endoplasmic reticulum-quality control (ER-QC) proteins including stromal-derived factor 2 (SDF2) co-purified with XA21. Silencing of the SDF2 genes in the XA21 rice genetic background compromises resistance to Xoo but does not affect plant growth and development.
23957671	The rice (Oryza sativa) OsXA21 receptor kinase is a well-studied immune receptor that initiates a signal transduction pathway leading to resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Two homologs of OsXA21 were identified in wheat (Triticum aestivum): TaXA21-like1 located in a syntenic region with OsXA21, and TaXA21-like2 located in a nonsyntenic region. Proteins encoded by these two wheat genes interact with four wheat orthologs of known OsXA21 interactors. In this study, we screened a wheat yeast-two-hybrid (Y2H) library using the cytosolic portion of TaXA21-like1 as bait to identify additional interactors. Using full-length T. aestivum and T. monococcum proteins and Y2H assays we identified three novel TaXA21-like1 interactors (TaARG, TaPR2, TmSKL1) plus one previously known in rice (TaSGT1). An additional full-length wheat protein (TaCIPK14) interacted with TaXA21-like2 and OsXA21 but not with TaXA21-like1. The interactions of TaXA21-like1 with TmSKL1 and TaSGT1 were also observed in rice protoplasts using bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays. We then cloned the rice homologs of the novel wheat interactors and confirmed that they all interact with OsXA21. This last result suggests that interspecific comparative interactome analyses can be used not only to transfer known interactions from rice to wheat, but also to identify novel interactions in rice.
23982951	The antimicrobial activity of analogs obtained by substituting arginine and lysine in CL(14-25), a cationic -helical dodecapeptide, with alanine against Porphyromonas gingivalis, a periodontal pathogen, varied significantly depending on the number and position of cationic amino acids. The alanine-substituted analogs had no hemolytic activity, even at a concentration of 1 mM. The antimicrobial activities of CL(K20A) and CL(K20A, K25A) were 3.8-fold and 9.1-fold higher, respectively, than that of CL(14-25). The antimicrobial activity of CL(R15A) was slightly lower than that of CL(14-25), suggesting that arginine at position 15 is not essential but is important for the antimicrobial activity. The experiments in which the alanine-substituted analogs bearing the replacement of arginine at position 24 and/or lysine at position 25 were used showed that arginine at position 24 was crucial for the antimicrobial activity whenever lysine at position 25 was substituted with alanine. Helical wheel projections of the alanine-substituted analogs indicate that the hydrophobicity in the vicinity of leucine at position 16 and alanines at positions 18 and/or 21 increased by substituting lysine at positions 20 and 25 with alanine, respectively. The degrees of diSC3 -5 release from P. gingivalis cells and disruption of GUVs induced by the alanine-substituted analogs with different positive charges were not closely related to their antimicrobial activities. The enhanced antimicrobial activities of the alanine-substituted analogs appear to be mainly attributable to the changes in properties such as hydrophobicity and amphipathic propensity due to alanine substitution and not to their extents of positive charge (cationicity).
24165682	The potential impact of genetically modified (GM) plants on human health has attracted much attention worldwide, and the issue remains controversial. This is in sharp contrast to the broad acceptance of plants produced by breeding through Marker Assisted Backcrossing (MAB). Focusing on transcriptome variation and perturbation to signaling pathways, we assessed the molecular and biological aspects of substantial equivalence, a general principle for food safety endorsed by the Food and Agricultural Organization and the World Health Organization, between a transgenic crop and a plant from MAB breeding. We compared a transgenic rice line (DXT) and a MAB rice line (DXB), both of which contain the gene Xa21 providing resistance to bacterial leaf blight. By using Next-Generation sequencing data of DXT, DXB and their parental line (D62B), we compared the transcriptome variation of DXT and DXB. Remarkably, DXT had 43% fewer differentially expressed genes (DEGs) than DXB. The genes exclusively expressed in DXT and in DXB have pathogen and stress defense functions. Functional categories of DEGs in DXT were comparable to that in DXB, and seven of the eleven pathways significantly affected by transgenesis were also perturbed by MAB breeding. These results indicated that the transgenic rice and rice from MAB breeding are substantial equivalent at the transcriptome level, and paved a way for further study of transgenic rice, e.g., understanding the chemical and nutritional properties of the DEGs identified in the current study.
24450460	Rice blast is one of the most damaging diseases of rice worldwide. In the present study, we analyzed DNA sequence variation of avirulence (AVR) genes of AVR-Pita1 in field isolates of Magnaporthe oryzae in order to understand the effectiveness of the resistance gene Pi-ta in China. Genomic DNA of 366 isolates of M. oryzae collected from Yunnan province of China were used for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification to examine the existence of AVR-Pita1 using gene-specific PCR markers. Results of PCR products revealed that 218 isolates of M. oryzae carry AVR-Pita1. Among of them, 62.5, 56.3, 58.5, 46.7, 72.4, and 57.4% of M. oryzae carry AVR-Pita1 from northeastern, southeast, western, northwest, southwestern, and central Yunnan province, respectively. The detection rate of AVR-Pita1 was, in order: southwestern > northeastern > western > central > southeastern > northwestern Yunnan province. Moreover, in total, 18 AVR-Pita1 haplotypes encoding 13 novel AVR-Pita1 variants were identified among 60 isolates. Most DNA sequence variation was found to occur in the exon region, resulting in amino acid substitution. Six virulent haplotypes of AVR-Pita1 to Pita were identified among 60 field isolates. The AVR-Pita1 has evolved to virulence from avirulent origins via base substitution. These findings demonstrate that AVR-Pita1 is under positive selection and mutations of AVR-Pita1 are responsible for defeating race-specific resistance in nature.
24482436	The rice XA21 immune receptor kinase and the structurally related XA3 receptor confer immunity to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight. Here we report the isolation of OsSERK2 (rice somatic embryogenesis receptor kinase 2) and demonstrate that OsSERK2 positively regulates immunity mediated by XA21 and XA3 as well as the rice immune receptor FLS2 (OsFLS2). Rice plants silenced for OsSerk2 display altered morphology and reduced sensitivity to the hormone brassinolide. OsSERK2 interacts with the intracellular domains of each immune receptor in the yeast two-hybrid system in a kinase activity-dependent manner. OsSERK2 undergoes bidirectional transphosphorylation with XA21 in vitro and forms a constitutive complex with XA21 in vivo. These results demonstrate an essential role for OsSERK2 in the function of three rice immune receptors and suggest that direct interaction with the rice immune receptors is critical for their function. Taken together, our findings suggest that the mechanism of OsSERK2-meditated regulation of rice XA21, XA3, and FLS2 differs from that of AtSERK3/BAK1-mediated regulation of Arabidopsis FLS2 and EFR.
24571270	No previous reports have described the effects of an increase in endogenous melatonin levels on plant yield and reproduction. Here, the phenotypes of melatonin-rich transgenic rice plants overexpressing sheep serotonin N-acetyltransferase were investigated under field conditions. Early seedling growth of melatonin-rich transgenic rice was greatly accelerated, with enhanced biomass relative to the wild type (WT). However, flowering was delayed by 1 wk in the transgenic lines compared with the WT. Grain yields of the melatonin-rich transgenic lines were reduced by 33% on average. Other phenotypes also varied among the transgenic lines. For example, the transgenic line S1 exhibited greater height and biomass than the WT, while the S10 transgenic line showed diminished height and an increase in panicle numbers per plant. The expression levels of Oryza sativa homeobox1 (OSH1) and TEOSINTE BRANCHED1 (TB1) genes, two key regulators of meristem initiation and maintenance, were not altered in the transgenic lines. These data demonstrate that an alteration of endogenous melatonin levels leads to pleiotropic effects such as height, biomass, panicle number, flowering time, and grain yield, indicating that melatonin behaves as a signaling molecule in plant growth and reproduction.
24612254	Banana Xanthomonas wilt (BXW), caused by the bacterium Xanthomonas campestris pv. musacearum (Xcm), is the most devastating disease of banana in east and central Africa. The spread of BXW threatens the livelihood of millions of African farmers who depend on banana for food security and income. There are no commercial chemicals, biocontrol agents or resistant cultivars available to control BXW. Here, we take advantage of the robust resistance conferred by the rice pattern-recognition receptor (PRR), XA21, to the rice pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). We identified a set of genes required for activation of Xa21-mediated immunity (rax) that were conserved in both Xoo and Xcm. Based on the conservation, we hypothesized that intergeneric transfer of Xa21 would confer resistance to Xcm. We evaluated 25 transgenic lines of the banana cultivar 'Gonja manjaya' (AAB) using a rapid bioassay and 12 transgenic lines in the glasshouse for resistance against Xcm. About 50% of the transgenic lines showed complete resistance to Xcm in both assays. In contrast, all of the nontransgenic control plants showed severe symptoms that progressed to complete wilting. These results indicate that the constitutive expression of the rice Xa21 gene in banana results in enhanced resistance against Xcm. Furthermore, this work demonstrates the feasibility of PRR gene transfer between monocotyledonous species and provides a valuable new tool for controlling the BXW pandemic of banana, a staple food for 100 million people in east Africa.
24780396	Plant innate immunity is mediated by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) and intracellular NB-LRR (nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat) proteins. Overexpression of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone, luminal-binding protein 3 (BiP3) compromises resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) mediated by the rice PRR XA21 [12]. Here we show that BiP3 overexpression also compromises resistance mediated by rice XA3, a PRR that provides broad-spectrum resistance to Xoo. In contrast, BiP3 overexpression has no effect on resistance mediated by rice Pi5, an NB-LRR protein that confers resistance to the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae (M. oryzae). Our results suggest that rice BiP3 regulates membrane-resident PRR-mediated immunity.
24792034	Rice production and seed storage are confronted with grain deterioration and loss of seed viability. Some members of the lipoxygenase (LOX) family function in degradation of storage lipids during the seed germination, but little is known about their influence on seed longevity during storage. We characterized the role of rice OsLOX2 gene in seed germination and longevity via over-expression and knock-down approaches. Abundant expression of OsLOX2 was detected in panicles, roots, and stems, but not in leaves. Moreover, OsLOX2 was highly induced during germination. OsLOX2 protein, located in the cytoplasm, showed a wide range of temperature adaptation (20-50 C) and a substrate preference to linoleic acid. Lines over-expressing OsLOX2 showed accelerated seed germination under normal condition and lower seed viability after accelerated aging. RNA interference (RNAi) of OsLOX2 caused delayed germination and enhanced seed longevity. RNAi lines with strongly repressed OsLOX2 activity completely lost the capability of germination after accelerated aging. More lipid hydroperoxide were found in OE15 than the control, but less in RNAi lines than in the WT Nipponbare. Therefore, OsLOX2 acts in opposite directions during seed germination and longevity during storage. Appropriate repression of the OsLOX2 gene may delay the aging process during the storage without compromising germination under normal conditions.
24884869	In plants, calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are involved in tolerance to abiotic stresses and in plant seed development. However, the functions of only a few rice CDPKs have been clarified. At present, it is unclear whether CDPKs also play a role in regulating spikelet fertility. We cloned and characterized the rice CDPK gene, OsCPK9. OsCPK9 transcription was induced by abscisic acid (ABA), PEG6000, and NaCl treatments. The results of OsCPK9 overexpression (OsCPK9-OX) and OsCPK9 RNA interference (OsCPK9-RNAi) analyses revealed that OsCPK9 plays a positive role in drought stress tolerance and spikelet fertility. Physiological analyses revealed that OsCPK9 improves drought stress tolerance by enhancing stomatal closure and by improving the osmotic adjustment ability of the plant. It also improves pollen viability, thereby increasing spikelet fertility. In OsCPK9-OX plants, shoot and root elongation showed enhanced sensitivity to ABA, compared with that of wild-type. Overexpression and RNA interference of OsCPK9 affected the transcript levels of ABA- and stress-responsive genes. Our results demonstrated that OsCPK9 is a positive regulator of abiotic stress tolerance, spikelet fertility, and ABA sensitivity.
24974324	The rice genome encodes several genes for putative carbohydrate-binding proteins belonging to the family of Euonymus related lectins (EULs). This lectin family was discovered recently and evidence shows that the expression of these proteins is subject to multiple environmental stresses. In this study, quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) was conducted on rice seedlings exposed to various abiotic (150mM NaCl, 100mM mannitol, and 100M abscisic acid (ABA)) and biotic (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae and Magnaporthe oryzae) stresses to compare the transcriptional behavior of the EULs and a known stress related lectin Orysata belonging to the family of jacalin-related lectins. All EUL transcripts were strongly up-regulated after ABA and NaCl treatments in the roots whereas the overall expression level was generally lower and more variable in the shoots. Moreover, all abiotic stresses induced Orysata in both tissues except for mannitol treatment which failed to show an effect in the roots. Orysata also strongly accumulated after X. oryzae pv. oryzae infection, as were various D-type EUL lectins. In contrast, some of the EUL proteins, including OrysaEULS3, OrysaEULD1A and OrysaEULD2, as well as Orysata were significantly down-regulated upon M. oryzae attack, suggesting fungal manipulation of these genes. Collectively, our results clearly show that rice expresses multiple carbohydrate-binding proteins in response to a wide variety of abiotic and biotic stress conditions. We hypothesize that the Euonymus related proteins fulfill a prominent role in sensing and responding to multiple environmental cues.
24995795	Auxin and brassinosteroid (BR) are important phytohormones for controlling lamina inclination implicated in plant architecture and grain yield. But the molecular mechanism of auxin and BR crosstalk for regulating lamina inclination remains unknown. Auxin response factors (ARFs) control various aspects of plant growth and development. We here report that OsARF19-overexpression rice lines show an enlarged lamina inclination due to increase of its adaxial cell division. OsARF19 is expressed in various organs including lamina joint and strongly induced by auxin and BR. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and yeast one-hybrid assays demonstrate that OsARF19 binds to the promoter of OsGH3-5 and brassinosteroid insensitive 1 (OsBRI1) directing their expression. OsGH3-5-overexpression lines show a similar phenotype as OsARF19-O1. Free auxin contents in the lamina joint of OsGH3-5-O1 or OsARF19-O1 are reduced. OsGH3-5 is localized at the endoplasmic retieulum (ER) matching reduction of the free auxin contents in OsGH3-5-O1. osarf19-TDNA and osgh3-5-Tos17 mutants without erected leaves show a function redundancy with other members of their gene family. OsARF19-overexpression lines are sensitive to exogenous BR treatment and alter the expressions of genes related to BR signalling. These findings provide novel insights into auxin and BR signalling, and might have significant implications for improving plant architecture of monocot crops.
25473841	Alkaline salt stress adversely affects rice growth, productivity and grain quality. However, the mechanism underlying this process remains elusive. We characterized here an alkaline tolerant mutant, alt1 in rice. Map-based cloning revealed that alt1 harbors a mutation in a chromatin remodeling ATPase gene. ALT1-RNAi transgenic plants under different genetic background mimicked the alt1 phenotype, exhibiting tolerance to alkaline stress in a transcript dosage-dependent manner. The predicted ALT1 protein belonged to the Ris1 subgroup of the Snf2 family and was localized in the nucleus, and transcription of ALT1 was transiently suppressed after alkaline treatment. Although the absorption of several metal ions maintained well in the mutant under alkaline stress, expression level of the genes involved in metal ions homeostasis was not altered in the alt1 mutant. Classification of differentially expressed abiotic stress related genes, as revealed by microarray analysis, found that the majority (50/78) were involved in ROS production, ROS scavenging, and DNA repair. This finding was further confirmed by that alt1 exhibited lower levels of H2O2 under alkaline stress and tolerance to methyl viologen treatment. Taken together, these results suggest that ALT1 negatively functions in alkaline tolerance mainly through the defense against oxidative damage, and provide a potential two-step strategy for improving the tolerance of rice plants to alkaline stress.
25607985	During plant immunity, surface-localized pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). The transfer of PRRs between plant species is a promising strategy for engineering broad-spectrum disease resistance. Thus, there is a great interest in understanding the mechanisms of PRR-mediated resistance across different plant species. Two well-characterized plant PRRs are the leucine-rich repeat receptor kinases (LRR-RKs) EFR and XA21 from Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) and rice, respectively. Interestingly, despite being evolutionary distant, EFR and XA21 are phylogenetically closely related and are both members of the sub-family XII of LRR-RKs that contains numerous potential PRRs. Here, we compared the ability of these related PRRs to engage immune signaling across the monocots-dicots taxonomic divide. Using chimera between Arabidopsis EFR and rice XA21, we show that the kinase domain of the rice XA21 is functional in triggering elf18-induced signaling and quantitative immunity to the bacteria Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato (Pto) DC3000 and Agrobacterium tumefaciens in Arabidopsis. Furthermore, the EFR:XA21 chimera associates dynamically in a ligand-dependent manner with known components of the EFR complex. Conversely, EFR associates with Arabidopsis orthologues of rice XA21-interacting proteins, which appear to be involved in EFR-mediated signaling and immunity in Arabidopsis. Our work indicates the overall functional conservation of immune components acting downstream of distinct LRR-RK-type PRRs between monocots and dicots.
25788736	Axillary meristems (AMs) are secondary shoot meristems whose outgrowth determines plant architecture. In rice, AMs form tillers, and tillering mutants reveal an interplay between transcription factors and the phytohormones auxin and strigolactone as some factors that underpin this developmental process. Previous studies showed that knockdown of the transcription factor gene RFL reduced tillering and caused a very large decrease in panicle branching. Here, the relationship between RFL, AM initiation, and outgrowth was examined. We show that RFL promotes AM specification through its effects on LAX1 and CUC genes, as their expression was modulated on RFL knockdown, on induction of RFL:GR fusion protein, and by a repressive RFL-EAR fusion protein. Further, we report reduced expression of auxin transporter genes OsPIN1 and OsPIN3 in the culm of RFL knockdown transgenic plants. Additionally, subtle change in the spatial pattern of IR4 DR5:GFP auxin reporter was observed, which hints at compromised auxin transport on RFL knockdown. The relationship between RFL, strigolactone signalling, and bud outgrowth was studied by transcript analyses and by the tillering phenotype of transgenic plants knocked down for both RFL and D3. These data suggest indirect RFL-strigolactone links that may affect tillering. Further, we show expression modulation of the auxin transporter gene OsPIN3 upon RFL:GR protein induction and by the repressive RFL-EAR protein. These modified forms of RFL had only indirect effects on OsPIN1. Together, we have found that RFL regulates the LAX1 and CUC genes during AM specification, and positively influences the outgrowth of AMs though its effects on auxin transport.
25821973	Plant plasma membrane localized pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) detect extracellular pathogen-associated molecules. PRRs such as Arabidopsis EFR and rice XA21 are taxonomically restricted and are absent from most plant genomes. Here we show that rice plants expressing EFR or the chimeric receptor EFR::XA21, containing the EFR ectodomain and the XA21 intracellular domain, sense both Escherichia coli- and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo)-derived elf18 peptides at sub-nanomolar concentrations. Treatment of EFR and EFR::XA21 rice leaf tissue with elf18 leads to MAP kinase activation, reactive oxygen production and defense gene expression. Although expression of EFR does not lead to robust enhanced resistance to fully virulent Xoo isolates, it does lead to quantitatively enhanced resistance to weakly virulent Xoo isolates. EFR interacts with OsSERK2 and the XA21 binding protein 24 (XB24), two key components of the rice XA21-mediated immune response. Rice-EFR plants silenced for OsSERK2, or overexpressing rice XB24 are compromised in elf18-induced reactive oxygen production and defense gene expression indicating that these proteins are also important for EFR-mediated signaling in transgenic rice. Taken together, our results demonstrate the potential feasibility of enhancing disease resistance in rice and possibly other monocotyledonous crop species by expression of dicotyledonous PRRs. Our results also suggest that Arabidopsis EFR utilizes at least a subset of the known endogenous rice XA21 signaling components.
26109439	Magnaporthe oryzae (Mo) is the causative pathogen of the damaging disease rice blast. The effector gene AvrPib, which confers avirulence to host carrying resistance gene Pib, was isolated via map-based cloning. The gene encodes a 75-residue protein, which includes a signal peptide. Phenotyping and genotyping of 60 isolates from each of five geographically distinct Mo populations revealed that the frequency of virulent isolates, as well as the sequence diversity within the AvrPib gene increased from a low level in the far northeastern region of China to a much higher one in the southern region, indicating a process of host-driven selection. Resequencing of the AvrPiballele harbored by a set of 108 diverse isolates revealed that there were four pathoways, transposable element (TE) insertion (frequency 81.7%), segmental deletion (11.1%), complete absence (6.7%), and point mutation (0.6%), leading to loss of the avirulence function. The lack of any TE insertion in a sample of non-rice infecting Moisolates suggested that it occurred after the host specialization of Mo. Both the deletions and the functional point mutation were confined to the signal peptide. The reconstruction of 16 alleles confirmed seven functional nucleotide polymorphisms for the AvrPiballeles, which generated three distinct expression profiles.
26184504	Rice bacterial blight (BB) is a devastating rice disease. The Xa21 gene confers a broad and persistent resistance against BB. We introduced Xa21 into Oryza sativa L ssp indica (rice 9311), through multi-generation backcrossing, and generated a nearly isogenic, blight-resistant 9311/Xa21 rice. Using next-generation sequencing, we profiled the transcriptomes of both varieties before and within four days after infection of bacterium Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. The identified differentially expressed (DE) genes and signaling pathways revealed insights into the functions of Xa21. Surprisingly, before infection 1,889 genes on 135 of the 316 signaling pathways were DE between the 9311/Xa21 and 9311 plants. These Xa21-mediated basal pathways included mainly those related to the basic material and energy metabolisms and many related to phytohormones such as cytokinin, suggesting that Xa21 triggered redistribution of energy, phytohormones and resources among essential cellular activities before invasion. Counter-intuitively, after infection, the DE genes between the two plants were only one third of that before the infection; other than a few stress-related pathways, the affected pathways after infection constituted a small subset of the Xa21-mediated basal pathways. These results suggested that Xa21 primed critically important genes and signaling pathways, enhancing its resistance against bacterial infection.
26335702	Accumulating data have suggested that small RNAs (sRNAs) have important functions in plant responses to pathogen invasion. However, it is largely unknown whether and how sRNAs are involved in the regulation of rice responses to the invasion of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), which causes bacterial blight, the most devastating bacterial disease of rice worldwide. We performed simultaneous genome-wide analyses of the expression of sRNAs and genes during early defense responses of rice to Xoo mediated by a major disease resistance gene, Xa3/Xa26, which confers durable and race-specific qualitative resistance. A large number of sRNAs and genes showed differential expression in Xa3/Xa26-mediated resistance. These differentially expressed sRNAs include known microRNAs (miRNAs), unreported miRNAs, and small interfering RNAs. The candidate genes, with expression that was negatively correlated with the expression of sRNAs, were identified, indicating that these genes may be regulated by sRNAs in disease resistance in rice. These results provide a new perspective regarding the putative roles of sRNA candidates and their putative target genes in durable disease resistance in rice.
26578190	HKT transporters are Na(+)-permeable membrane proteins, which mediate Na(+) and K(+) homeostasis in K(+)-depleted and saline environments in plants. Class II HKT transporters, a distinct subgroup found predominantly in monocots, are known to mediate Na(+)-K(+) co-transport in principle. Here we report features of ion transport functions of No-OsHKT2;2/1, a class II transporter identified in a salt tolerant landrace of indica rice, Nona Bokra. We profiled No-OsHKT2;2/1 expression in organs of Nona Bokra plants with or without salinity stress. Dominant accumulation of the No-OsHKT2;2/1 transcript in K(+)-starved roots of Nona Bokra plants largely disappeared in response to 50 mM NaCl. We found that No-OsHKT2;2/1 expressed in the high-affinity K(+) uptake deficient mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Xenopus laevis oocytes shows robust K(+) selectivity even in the presence of a large amount of NaCl as reported previously. However, No-OsHKT2;2/1-expressing yeast cells exhibited Na(+) hypersensitive growth under various concentrations of K(+) and Na(+) as the cells expressing Po-OsHKT2;2, a similar class II transporter from another salt tolerant indica rice Pokkali, when compared with the growth of cells harboring empty vector or cells expressing OsHKT2;4. The OsHKT2;4 protein expressed in Xenopus oocytes showed strong K(+) selectivity in the presence of 50 mM NaCl in comparison with No-OsHKT2;2/1 and Po-OsHKT2;2. Together with apparent plasma membrane-localization of No-OsHKT2;2/1, these results point to possibilities that No-OsHKT2;2/1 could mediate destructive Na(+) influx over K(+) uptake in Nona Bokra plants upon salinity stress, and that a predominant physiological function of No-OsHKT2;2/1 might be the acquisition of Na(+) and K(+) in K(+)-limited environments.
26601487	Based on modern technologies of molecular DNA-markers, blast disease-resistance genes (Pi-ta, Pi-b, Pi-1, Pi-2, and Pi-33) were introgressed and pyramided into domestic rice varieties to give them long-term disease resistance. For that purpose, this case study uses SSR-markers closely linked to these genes, as well as intragenic markers of genes Pi-ta and Pi-b. Multiplex PCR systems were created for simultaneous identification of two resistance genes in the hybrid progeny for the following combinations: Pi-1 + Pi-2, Pi-ta + Pi-b, Pi-ta + Pi-33.
26760761	Cecropin A is a natural antimicrobial peptide that exhibits fast and potent activity against a broad spectrum of pathogens and neoplastic cells, and that has important biotechnological applications. However, cecropin A exploitation, as for other antimicrobial peptides, is limited by their production and purification costs. Here, we report the efficient production of this bioactive peptide in rice bran using the rice oleosin 18 as a carrier protein. High cecropin A levels were reached in rice seeds driving the expression of the chimeric gene by the strong embryo-specific oleosin 18 own promoter, and targeting the peptide to the oil body organelle as an oleosin 18-cecropin A fusion protein. The accumulation of cecropin A in oil bodies had no deleterious effects on seed viability and seedling growth, as well as on seed yield. We also show that biologically active cecropin A can be easily purified from the transgenic rice seeds by homogenization and simple flotation centrifugation methods. Our results demonstrate that the oleosin fusion technology is suitable for the production of cecropin A in rice seeds, which can potentially be extended to other antimicrobial peptides to assist their exploitation.
26792122	Starch is a biologically and commercially important polymer of glucose. Starch is organized into starch grains (SGs) inside amyloplasts. The SG size differs depending on the plant species and is one of the most important factors for industrial applications of starch. There is limited information on genetic factors regulating SG sizes. In this study, we report the rice (Oryza sativa) mutant substandard starch grain6 (ssg6), which develops enlarged SGs in endosperm. Enlarged SGs are observed starting at 3 d after flowering. During endosperm development, a number of smaller SGs appear and coexist with enlarged SGs in the same cells. The ssg6 mutation also affects SG morphologies in pollen. The SSG6 gene was identified by map-based cloning and microarray analysis. SSG6 encodes a protein homologous to aminotransferase. SSG6 differs from other rice homologs in that it has a transmembrane domain. SSG6-green fluorescent protein is localized in the amyloplast membrane surrounding SGs in rice endosperm, pollen, and pericarp. The results of this study suggest that SSG6 is a novel protein that controls SG size. SSG6 will be a useful molecular tool for future starch breeding and applications.
26948618	Transgenic rice expressing the Xa21 gene have enhanced resistant to most devastating bacterial blight diseases caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). However, identification of unintended modifications, owing to the genetic modification, is an important aspect of transgenic crop safety assessment. In this study, the nutritional compositions of seeds from transgenic rice plants expressing the Xa21 gene were compared against non-transgenic rice seeds. In addition, to detect any changes in protein translation levels as a result of Xa21 gene expression, rice seed proteome analyses were also performed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. No significant differences were found in the nutritional compositions (proximate components, amino acids, minerals, vitamins and anti-nutrients) of the transgenic and non-transgenic rice seeds. Although gel electrophoresis identified 11 proteins that were differentially expressed between the transgenic and non-transgenic seed, only one of these (with a 20-fold up-regulation in the transgenic seed) shows nutrient reservoir activity. No new toxins or allergens were detected in the transgenic seeds.
26976728	Bacterial blight (BB) of rice caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is a major disease of rice in many rice growing countries. Pyramided lines carrying two BB resistance gene combinations (Xa21+xa13 and Xa21+xa5) were developed in a lowland cultivar Jalmagna background through backcross breeding by integrating molecular markers. In each backcross generation, markers closely linked to the disease resistance genes were used to select plants possessing the target genes. Background selection was continued in those plants carrying resistant genes until BC(3) generation. Plants having the maximum contribution from the recurrent parent genome were selected in each generation and hybridized with the recipient parent. The BB-pyramided line having the maximum recipient parent genome recovery of 95% was selected among BC3F1 plants and selfed to isolate homozygous BC(3)F(2) plants with different combinations of BB resistance genes. Twenty pyramided lines with two resistance gene combinations exhibited high levels of tolerance against the BB pathogen. In order to confirm the resistance, the pyramided lines were inoculated with different X. oryzae pv. oryzae strains of Odisha for bioassay. The genotypes with combination of two BB resistance genes conferred high levels of resistance to the predominant X. oryzae pv. oryzae isolates prevalent in the region. The pyramided lines showed similarity with the recipient parent with respect to major agro-morphologic traits.
27070427	The Pi-ta gene in rice is effective in preventing infections by Magnaporthe oryzae strains that contain the corresponding avirulence gene, AVR-Pita1. Diverse haplotypes of AVR-Pita1 have been identified from isolates of M. oryzae from rice production areas in the United States and worldwide. DNA sequencing and mapping studies have revealed that AVR-Pita1 is highly unstable, while expression analysis and quantitative resistance loci mapping of the Pi-ta locus revealed complex evolutionary mechanisms of Pi-ta-mediated resistance. Among these studies, several Pi-ta transcripts were identified, most of which are probably derived from alternative splicing and exon skipping, which could produce functional resistance proteins that support a new concept of coevolution of Pi-ta and AVR-Pita1. User-friendly DNA markers for Pi-ta have been developed to support marker-assisted selection, and development of new rice varieties with the Pi-ta markers. Genome-wide association studies revealed a link between Pi-ta-mediated resistance and yield components suggesting that rice has evolved a complicated defense mechanism against the blast fungus. In this review, we detail the current understanding of Pi-ta allelic variation, its linkage with rice productivity, AVR-Pita allelic variation, and the coevolution of Pi-ta and AVR-Pita in Oryza species and M. oryzae populations, respectively. We also review the genetic and molecular basis of Pi-ta and AVR-Pita interaction, and its value in marker-assisted selection and engineering resistance.
27071313	The exon junction complex (EJC), which contains four core components, eukaryotic initiation factor 4AIII (eIF4AIII), MAGO/NASHI (MAGO), Y14/Tsunagi/RNA-binding protein 8A, and Barentsz/Metastatic lymph node 51, is formed in both nucleus and cytoplasm, and plays important roles in gene expression. Genes encoding core EJC components have been found in plants, including rice. Currently, the functional characterizations of MAGO and Y14 homologs have been demonstrated in rice. However, it is still unknown whether eIF4AIII is essential for the functional EJC in rice. This study investigated two DEAD box RNA helicases, OsRH2 and OsRH34, which are homologous to eIF4AIII, in rice. Amino acid sequence analysis indicated that OsRH2 and OsRH34 had 99 % identity and 100 % similarity, and their gene expression patterns were similar in various rice tissues, but the level of OsRH2 mRNA was about 58-fold higher than that of OsRH34 mRNA in seedlings. From bimolecular fluorescence complementation results, OsRH2 and OsRH34 interacted physically with OsMAGO1 and OsY14b, respectively, which indicated that both of OsRH2 and OsRH34 were core components of the EJC in rice. To study the biological roles of OsRH2 and OsRH34 in rice, transgenic rice plants were generated by RNA interference. The phenotypes of three independent OsRH2 and OsRH34 double-knockdown transgenic lines included dwarfism, a short internode distance, reproductive delay, defective embryonic development, and a low seed setting rate. These phenotypes resembled those of mutants with gibberellin-related developmental defects. In addition, the OsRH2 and OsRH34 double-knockdown transgenic lines exhibited the accumulation of unspliced rice UNDEVELOPED TAPETUM 1 mRNA. Rice contains two eIF4AIII paralogous genes, OsRH2 and OsRH34. The abundance of OsRH2 mRNA was about 58-fold higher than that of OsRH34 mRNA in seedlings, suggesting that the OsRH2 is major eIF4AIII in rice. Both OsRH2 and OsRH34 are core components of the EJC, and participate in regulating of plant height, pollen, and seed development in rice.
27323767	We fine mapped the Xa4 locus and developed a pyramided rice line containing Xa3 and Xa4 R - alleles and a cold-tolerance QTL. This line will be valuable in rice breeding. Bacterial blight (BB) caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) is a destructive disease of cultivated rice. Pyramiding BB resistance genes is an essential approach for increasing the resistance level of rice varieties. We selected an advanced backcross recombinant inbred line 132 (ABL132) from the BC3F7 population derived from a cross between cultivars Junam and IR72 by K3a inoculation and constructed the mapping population (BC4F6) to locate the Xa4 locus. The Xa4 locus was found to be delimited within a 60-kb interval between InDel markers InDel1 and InDel2 and tightly linked with the Xa3 gene on chromosome 11. After cold (4 C) treatment, ABL132 with introgressions of IR72 in chromosome 11 showed lower survival rate, chlorophyll content, and relative water content compared to Junam. Genetic analysis showed that the cold stress-related quantitative trait locus (QTL) qCT11 was located in a 1.3-Mb interval close to the Xa4 locus. One line, ABL132-36, containing the Xa3 resistance allele from Junam, the Xa4 resistance allele from IR72, and the cold-tolerance QTL from Junam (qCT11), was developed from a BC4F6 population of 250 plants. This is the first report on the pyramiding of Xa3 and Xa4 genes with a cold-tolerance QTL. This region could provide a potential tool for improving resistance against BB and low-temperature stress in rice-breeding programs.
27838799	A rice mutant aberrant floral organ 1 (afo1) was identified, showing increased floral organ number, aberrant floral organ identity and loss of floral meristem determinacy. A disruption of sequence integrity at 6292-bp upstream of RFL by a T-DNA insertion led to varied RFL expression patterns in floral meristem and floret in afo1 and caused the mutant phenotype. The LEAFY (LFY) transcription factor and its homologs affect many aspects of plant development, especially floral development. RICE FLORICAULA/LEAFY (RFL), the rice ortholog of LFY, has complicated expression patterns and different functions in floral development. However, the mechanisms regulating the spatial-temporal expression of RFL remain largely unknown. Here, we describe a rice aberrant floral organ 1 (afo1) mutant that was produced by a T-DNA insertion at 6292-bp upstream of the start codon of RFL. This insertion altered the expression of RFL in floral meristem (FM) and floret. The in situ hybridization result showed that, when florets appear, RFL was expressed almost exclusively at the palea/lemma adaxial base adjacent to lodicules in the wild-type panicle. However, in afo1 florets, RFL mRNA signals were detected in the region between lodicule and stamen, and strong signals persisted in FM. The altered pattern of RFL expression in afo1 resulted in enlarged FMs, more floral organs, aberrant floral organ identity, and loss of FM determinacy. Transformation of rice with an RFL construct driven by the 6292-bp upstream genomic sequence re-built the mutant phenotype similar to afo1. The results suggest that the far-upstream region of RFL may contain potential cis element(s) that are critical to define the precise spatial-temporal expression pattern of RFL for its function in floral development.
28044270	Rice seedlings (Oryza sativa) inoculated with the plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria Azospirillum brasilense FT326 showed an enhanced development of the root system 3 days after inoculation. Later on, a remarkable enlargement of shoots was also evident. An increase in the Ca2+-dependent histone kinase activity was also detected as a result of inoculation. The biochemical characterization and Western-blot analysis of the kinase strongly supports the hypothesis that it belongs to a member of the rice CDPK family. The fact that the amount of the protein did not change upon inoculation seems to indicate that a posttranslational activation is responsible for the change in the enzymatic activity. An in-gel kinase experiment identified a 46 kDa CDPK like protein kinase as a putative component of the signal transduction pathway triggered by Azospirillum inoculation. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the possible involvement of a Ca2+-dependent protein kinase in promotion of rice plants growth by A. brasilense.
28690154	The MYB proteins play important roles in regulating plant responses to environmental stresses. We cloned and functionally characterized a novel MYB-related gene, OsMYBR1, from rice. Our microarray and qRT-PCR analyses showed that its expression was induced by drought and cold in different tissues at various developmental stages. This gene encodes a putative MYB-related protein of 463 amino acid residues. Compared with wild-type (WT) plants, transgenic plants over-expressing OsMYBR1 exhibited much greater tolerance to drought stress and decreased sensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA). Under drought treatment, levels of free proline and soluble sugar were higher in transgenic plants than in the WT. Furthermore, transcriptional expression of four stress-related genes -- OsP5CS1, OsProt, OsLEA3, and OsRab16 -- was significantly increased in transgenic plants under drought stressed conditions and ABA. Our results provide evidence that OsMYBR1 is involved in mediating plant responses to ABA and drought.
3108471	The stability and inhibitory specificity of rice bran trypsin inhibitor (RBTI) was investigated in an attempt to understand its nutritional significance. RBTI retained about 100% of its original activity over a pH range from 4 to 10 during 24-h incubation at 37 degrees C. In heat treatment, RBTI at acidic and neutral pH values still possessed about 50% of its initial activity after 30-min incubation at 100 degrees C, although it was completely inactivated during 15-min incubation at pH 10 and 100 degrees C. The effects of metal ions and some reagents on RBTI were examined and it was found that Hg ion reduced RBTI's inhibitory activity: The inhibitor lost 30-100% of its original activity upon incubation with a reducing, an oxidizing or a thiol reagent. Digestion tests on RBTI indicated that alpha-chymotrypsin did not affect the inhibitory activity and pepsin caused only a 30% loss of the initial inhibitory activity after 24-h digestion. To determine inhibitory specificity, bovine, hog, rat, and human trypsins were used as target enzymes bound to an immobilized RBTI column. Titrations of the purified enzymes with RBTI showed that bovine, hog, and rat trypsins were powerfully inhibited by the inhibitor, while human trypsin was only weakly inhibited.
3355507	The carbohydrate-binding specificity of rice (Oryza sativa) lectin was investigated by testing the ability of radioactively labelled glycopeptides and oligosaccharides to bind to a rice lectin-Sepharose 4B column. Rice lectin binds asparagine-linked oligosaccharides through the core NN'-diacetylchitobiose moiety. Whereas beta 1-4-mannose enhances the binding strength only to a small extent, alpha 1-3-linked core mannose increases it considerably. A core alpha 1-6-linked mannose residue has a slightly inhibitory effect. Binding is not affected when one or both of the alpha-mannose residues are substituted with mannose at C-2, C-3 and C-6 or with N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) at C-2 positions. The presence of an alpha 1-6-fucose residue attached to the asparagine-linked GlcNAc also does not affect the binding. The binding of complex biantennary glycopeptides is not altered by the presence of one or two galactose residues in the non-reducing terminus, but the presence of one or two sialic acid residues decreases the binding capacity. A bisecting beta 1-4-linked GlcNAc attached to beta-linked mannose residue enhances the binding of sialo, asialo and asialoagalacto complex biantennary-type glycopeptides. Bisected hybrid-type glycopeptides bind very tightly to a rice lectin-Sepharose 4B column: Substitution of alpha 1-3-mannose residue at C-2 and C-4 with GlcNAc completely inhibits the binding of both bisected and non-bisected complex asparagine-linked glycopeptides. O-Glycosidically linked oligosaccharides containing GlcNAc bind very weakly to a rice lectin column. The applicability of immobilized rice lectin columns in the fractionation of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides is discussed.
3688888	Rice lectin (Oryza sativa, var. Balilla 28) was purified from defatted embryos by aqueous acid extraction at pH 1.3 followed by ammonium sulfate precipitation between 2 and 4 M, affinity chromatography on agarose-p-aminophenyl-beta-D-N-acetylglucosamine, and gel filtration on AcA 54. The homogeneity of the lectin was checked by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, gel filtration, and immunodiffusion. The amino acid analysis revealed a high half-cystine content (9%) and a low aromatic and hydrophobic amino acid content. The lectin contained neither neutral carbohydrates nor amino sugars. The isoelectric point was estimated to be 8.1. The molecular weight of rice lectin was estimated to be 38,000. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under reducing conditions showed two polypeptides with Mr 19,000 and 15,000. The circular dichroism spectrum of rice lectin in far ultraviolet was characterized by a positive maximum at 228 nm and a negative band at 203 nm suggesting the presence of a beta-pleated sheet and the absence of alpha-helix. Rice lectin had no human blood group specificity and agglutinated rabbit erythrocytes more efficiently than erythrocytes from other animal species. Furthermore, agglutination was enhanced by trypsin treatment of erythrocytes. The erythroagglutinating activity was very high since the minimal concentration needed to agglutinate erythrocytes was 0.05 micrograms/ml. Although [methyl-3H]thymidine incorporation was stimulated in human lymphocytes, rice lectin could not be considered as a mitogenic lectin since it stimulated neither blast transformation nor lymphocyte proliferation. The saccharide specificity of rice lectin was related to N-acetylglucosamine and its oligomers: N,N',N"-triacetylchitotriose was the most powerful inhibitor. Furthermore, the N-acetylneuraminic acid was not a specific rice determinant. Finally, the double immunodiffusion method revealed a cross-reactivity between rice lectin and wheat germ agglutinin, indicating that these lectins were closely antigenically related. The analogies and differences between biological and immunological properties of rice lectin and wheat germ agglutinin are discussed and the possibility of their evolution from a common ancestor is put forward.
3955574	A lectin was purified from rice flour by aqueous extraction followed by precipitation by ammonium sulfate and affinity chromatography on p-aminobenzyl 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-1-thio-beta-D-glucoside-succinyl-aminohexylaminyl -Sepharose 4B. The molecular weight of the lectin is approximately 36,000, as determined by sedimentation-equilibrium analysis. It is a tetramer consisting of two different subunits (Mr = 12,000 +/- 1,000 and 9,000 +/- 1,000). Amino acid analysis indicated that the lectin contains very high proportions of half-cystine, glycine, and glutamic acid. All of the half-cystines are present as -S-S- bridges. The lectin agglutinates human A, B, AB, and O erythrocytes, rabbit erythrocytes, human leukocytes, and is mitogenic to human lymphocytes. The hemagglutinating activity of rice lectin is inhibited by 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-glucose, methyl 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-beta-D-glucoside, chitobiose, and chitotriose. N-Acetylneuraminic acid was a noninhibitor, but N-acetylneuramin-(2----3)-lactose showed weak inhibition. The agglutinating activity was also inhibited by various sialoglycoproteins. The immobilized rice-lectin bound glycophorin, alpha 1-acid glycoprotein, and fetuin. Asialoglycophorin, asialofetuin, ovomucoid, and human chorionic gonadotropin were bound only partially to the column.
4052018	The interaction of lectin isolated from rice (Oryza sativa) embryos with N-acetylglucosaminides was studied by equilibrium dialysis and fluorescence. Equilibrium dialysis with 4-methylumbelliferyl-(GlcNac)2 showed that rice lectin (Mr 38000) contains four equivalent saccharide-binding sites. Addition of the N-acetylglucosaminides GlcNac, (GlcNac)2 and (GlcNac)3 enhanced the intrinsic fluorescence of rice lectin and this was accompanied by a 10nm blue-shift of its maximum fluorescence with (GlcNac)2 and (GlcNac)3. These changes in intensity allowed determination of the association constants, which increased with the number of saccharide units: at 20 degrees C, Ka = (1.3 +/- 0.1) X 10(3), (5.1 +/- 0.4) X 10(4) and (2.6 +/- 0.1) X 10(5) M-1 for GlcNac, (GlcNac)2 and (GlcNac)3 respectively. The binding enthalpy, delta H0, for the three glucosaminides were very low and ranged from -12.1 to -20.6 kJ X mol-1. The results are compared with those obtained with wheat-germ agglutinin, another GlcNac-specific gramineaous lectin.
7599651	Osem, a rice gene homologous to the wheat Em gene, which encodes one of the late-embryogenesis abundant proteins was isolated. The gene was characterized with respect to control of transcription by abscisic acid (ABA) and the transcriptional activator VP1, which is involved in the ABA-regulated gene expression during late embryo-genesis. A fusion gene (Osem-GUS) consisting of the Osem promoter and the bacterial beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene was constructed and tested in a transient expression system, using protoplasts derived from a suspension-cultured line of rice cells, for activation by ABA and by co-transfection with an expression vector (35S-Osvp1) for the rice VP1 (OSVP1) cDNA. The expression of Osem-GUS was strongly (40- to 150-fold) activated by externally applied ABA and by over-expression of (OS)VP1. The Osem promoter has three ACGTG-containing sequences, motif A, motif B and motif A', which resemble the abscisic acid-responsive element (ABRE) that was previously identified in the wheat Em and the rice Rab16. There is also a CATGCATG sequence, which is known as the Sph box and is shown to be essential for the regulation by VP1 of the maize anthocyanin regulatory gene C1. Focusing on these sequence elements, various mutant derivatives of the Osem promoter in the transient expression system were assayed. The analysis revealed that motif A functions not only as an ABRE but also as a sequence element required for the regulation by (OS)VP1.
7599652	Three cDNA clones were isolated from rice, OSH42, OSH44 and OSH45, which encode homeodomain sequences in the C-terminal region. The sequences of these cDNAs differ in the N- and C-termini, but they share an identical homeodomain and an acidic amino acid-rich region. The transcripts corresponding to these cDNAs are encoded by a single gene on rice chromosome 8. Differential transcription initiation results in a large transcript comprised of exons 1 and 3-7 and a smaller transcript comprised of exons 2-7. The larger transcript is constitutively expressed in all tissues tested, while the smaller transcript is expressed in leaves, stems and rachis but not in roots, flowers, or suspension callus cells. Alternative splicing also occurs at three different acceptor sites in intron 6 in all tissues tested. The GAL4 DNA-binding domain of yeast was used to study the function of various protein domains. The acidic amino acid-rich region activates the expression of a reporter gene controlled by the GAL4 target sequence, indicating that it functions as a transactivation domain. The larger transcript encodes a unique alanine and glycine-rich region on the N-terminal side of the acidic region, which is not encoded by the smaller transcript. This region completely suppresses the transactivation activity of the acidic region. This suggests that the product of the larger transcript fails to activate the expression of the target gene(s) while the product of the smaller transcript activates the expression of its target gene(s).
7632916	To study the expression and regulation of a rice glycine-rich cell wall protein gene, Osgrp1, transgenic rice plants were regenerated that contain the Osgrp1 promoter or its 5' deletions fused with the bacterial beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. We report here a detailed histochemical analysis of the Osgrp1-Gus expression patterns in transgenic rice plants. In roots of transgenic rice plants, GUS expression was specifically located in cell elongation and differentiation regions, and no GUS expression was detectable in the apical meristem and the mature region. In shoots, GUS activity was expressed only in young leaves or in the growing basal parts of developing leaves, and little GUS activity was expressed in mature leaves or mature parts of developing leaves. In shoot apices, GUS activity was detected only in those leaf cells which were starting to expand and differentiate, and GUS expression was not detected in the apical meristem and the young meristematic leaf primordia. GUS activity was highly expressed in the young stem tissue, particularly in the developing vascular bundles and epidermis. Thus, the expression of the Osgrp1 gene is closely associated with cell elongation/expansion during the post-mitotic cell differentiation process. The Osgrp1-Gus gene was also expressed in response to wounding and down-regulated by water-stress conditions in the elongation region of roots. Promoter deletion analysis indicates that both positive and negative mechanisms are involved in regulating the specific expression patterns. We propose a simple model for the developmental regulation of the Osgrp1 gene expression.
7639786	In monocotyledons, the expression of the oat phytochrome A gene (PHYA) is down-regulated by phytochrome itself. This autoregulatory repression is the most rapid light-induced effect on gene expression reported in plants to date. A functional analysis of the oat PHYA3 gene minimal promoter in a rice transient expression assay has identified two promoter elements, PE1 and PE3, that interact synergistically in positive regulation. We have isolated an oat cDNA clone (pO2) that encodes a DNA-binding protein that binds to the PE1 region of the oat PHYA3 gene promoter. The in vitro binding properties of the pO2-encoded protein, towards DNA probes containing either the PE1 sequence or linker-substitution mutations in PE1, correlate with the activity of these DNA elements in the rice transient expression assay. These mutations are known to abolish expression of a reporter gene in vivo. Binding of these linker-substitution mutants to the pO2-encoded protein in vitro was lower by one to two orders of magnitude than the binding of the native PE1 region. We suggest, therefore, that the pO2 clone may encode the putative nuclear factor, oat PF1, that is involved in positive regulation of PHYA3 by binding to PE1 in vivo. pO2 encodes a 170-amino-acid-long protein that contains three repeats of the 'AT-hook' DNA-binding motif found in high mobility group I-Y (HMGI-Y) proteins. Oat PF1 is highly similar to rice PF1 and to the protein encoded by soybean cDNA SB16. They all have a strong similarity in their N-terminus to the pea H1 histone, and the presence of several AT-hook DNA-binding motifs in their C-terminal halves.
7655505	GT-2 is a DNA-binding protein with high target-sequence specificity toward functionally defined, positively acting cis elements in the rice phytochrome A gene promoter. Using immunocytochemical procedures, it is shown here that GT-2 is localized to the nucleus, consistent with a function in transcriptional regulation. Immunoblot and immunocytochemical analyses show that rice shoots contain higher levels of GT-2 protein than roots, and that no photo-induced changes in GT-2 abundance or spatial distribution are detectable in these tissues, a result consistent with the proposed constitutive activity of GT-2. In both shoots and roots, GT-2 protein is undetectable in meristematic tissue but becomes expressed at later stages of cellular development, consistent with a role in contributing to the pattern of phytochrome A gene expression. By transfecting protoplasts with a series of constructs containing deletion derivatives of GT-2 fused to beta-glucuronidase (GUS), followed by in situ localization of GUS activity, two independent, functionally active nuclear localization sequences (NLSs) have been identified in GT-2. One NLS resides within each of a pair of previously identified, spatially separate, trihelix motifs in the protein. Sequence inversion and alanine-scanning mutagenesis has identified residues within these NLSs necessary for nuclear localization. Each NLS contains two basic domains separated by 10 amino acids, conforming to the bipartite class of NLS involved in the targeting of numerous other nuclear localized proteins.
7756978	Strong sequence similarity has been reported among WrbA (the Trp repressor-binding protein of Escherichia coli); Ycp4, a protein of unknown function from the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae; P25, the pap1-dependent protein of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe; and the translation product of a partial cDNA sequence from rice seedling root (Oryza sativa, locus Ricr02421a; here referred to as RicR). Further homology search with the profile method indicates that all the above sequences are related to the flavodoxin family and, in turn, allows detection of the recently proposed flavodoxin-like proteins from E. coli, MioC and the hypothetical protein YihB. We discuss sequence conservation with reference to the known 3-dimensional structures of flavodoxins. Conserved sequence and hydrophobicity patterns, as well as residue-pair interaction potentials, strongly support the hypothesis that these proteins share the alpha/beta twisted open-sheet fold typical of flavodoxins, with an additional alpha/beta unit in the WrbA family. On the basis of the proposed structural homology, we discuss the details of the putative FMN-binding sites. Our analysis also suggests that the helix-turn-helix motif we identified previously in the C-terminal region of the WrbA family is unlikely to reflect a DNA-binding function of this new protein family.
7757338	A cDNA for a pathogenesis-related endo-beta-1,3-glucanase isolated from soybean, was fused to an anther tapetum-specific promoter (Osg6B promoter) isolated from rice and the resulting chimeric gene was introduced into tobacco. The Osg6B promoter became active in the anther tapetum during formation of tetrads and the tapetal glucanase activity in the transgenic plants caused in a significant reduction in the number of fertile pollen grains. Most of the pollen grains were aberrant in shape, lacked germinal apertures and aggregate of the pollen grains. Granules of beta-1,3-glucan, which have not previously been reported, were often observed to adhere to the surface of the pollen grains. Further observations revealed that the callose wall was almost absent in the pollen tetrads of transgenic plants. In wild-type plants, by contrast, the tetrads were surrounded by callose that was degraded soon after the tetrad stage to release free microspores. Thus, the introduced gene for endo-beta-1,3-endoglucanase under the control of the Osg6B promoter caused digestion of the callose wall at the beginning of the tetrad stage, a time that was just a little earlier than the time at which endogenous glucanase activity normal appears. These results demonstrate that premature dissolution of the callose wall in pollen tetrads causes male sterility and suggest that the time at which tapetally produced glucanase is activate is critical for the normal development of microspores.
7766047	Sieve tubes play important roles in the transfer of nutrients as well as signals. Hundreds of proteins were found in pure phloem sap collected from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Kantou) plants through the cut ends of insect stylets. These proteins may be involved in nutrient transfer and signal transduction. To characterize the nature of these proteins, the partial amino-acid sequence of a 13-kDa protein, named RPP13-1, that was abundant in the pure phleom sap was determined. A cDNA clone of 687 bp, containing an open reading frame of 122 amino acids, was isolated using corresponding oligonucleotides as a probe. The deduced amino-acid sequence was very similar to that of the ubiquitous thiol redox protein, thioredoxin. The consensus sequences of thioredoxins are highly conserved. No putative signal peptide was identified. Antiserum against wheat thioredoxin h cross-reacted with RPP13-1 in the phloem sap of rice plants. RPP13-1 produced in Escherichia coli was reactive to antiserum against wheat thioredoxin h. Both E. coli-produced RPP13-1 and the phloem sap proteins catalyzed the reduction of the disulfide bonds of insulin in the presence of dithiothreitol. These results indicate that an active thioredoxin is a major protein translocating in rice sieve tubes.
7858214	In situ localization of mRNA was carried out on two cDNAs (Osc4 and Osc6) that had been isolated from rice anthers at the microspore stage. The mRNA corresponding to each cDNA was shown to be localized only in the tapetal cells of the rice immature anthers, but not in the microspores or the mature pollen. The corresponding genomic clone, Osg6B, was isolated, and its 5'-upstream region was found to regulate beta-glucuronidase expression in the tapetum of transgenic tobacco. A set of 5' deletions was also generated and a 1095 bp 5' region was revealed to be necessary for activation of the Osg6B promoter in transgenic tobacco.
7858231	Two cDNA clones encoding two different beta-tubulins, RTUB-1 and RTUB-2, were isolated from a rice cDNA library and their nucleotide sequences were analyzed. The deduced amino acid sequences showed amino acid sequence identity between 92% and 97% with other plant beta-tubulins. Southern blot analysis using gene-specific and coding-region probes suggested that beta-tubulins in rice are encoded by multigene families. The two cDNA clones represent two subfamilies of rice tubulins, RTUB-1 and RTUB-2, consisting of 3 to 4 genes and a single gene, respectively. The transcript levels of RTUB-1 and RTUB-2 genes were higher in actively elongating tissues such as etiolated shoot tissues and light-grown root tissues of four-day old seedlings.
7888615	Two cDNA clones (RCc2 and RCc3) corresponding to mRNAs highly expressed only in root tissues of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings were characterized. Respectively, they encode polypeptides of 146 (14.5 kDa) and 133 amino acids (13.4 kDa) that share high (> 70%) sequence similarity with a polypeptide encoded by a cDNA (ZRP3) encoding an mRNA preferentially expressed in young maize roots. Genomic DNA blot analysis revealed that they are members of a small gene family and RCg2, the gene corresponding to RCc2, was isolated. A 1656 bp 5'-upstream sequence of RCg2 was translationally fused to a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene and stable introduction of the chimeric construct into rice was confirmed by PCR and genomic DNA blot analyses. Histochemical analysis of transgenic rice plants containing the full-length chimeric gene showed high levels of GUS activity in mature cells and the elongation and maturation zones of primary and secondary roots, and in the root caps, but no GUS activity was detected in root meristematic regions. Surprisingly, high GUS activity was also detected in leaves of the same plants. This raises the possibility that the RCg2 5'-upstream element may not be sufficient for the proper spatial control of root specificity in transgenic rice.
7948880	Exposure of seedlings of a chilling-sensitive variety of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Wasetoittu) to water stress (0.5 M mannitol, 30 min) at room temperature induced a degree of chilling resistance. No such resistance was induced by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) application (10 microM, 60 min). Upon short-term water stress, new transcripts were expressed in both seedlings and suspension-cultured cells. We suggest that the genes induced by short-term water stress, and not those induced by ABA, are related to acquired chilling resistance in this chilling-sensitive rice variety. A total of nine different cDNA clones, specifically induced by short-term water stress, were isolated by differential hybridization and partial sequencing. Northern hybridization analysis using RNAs from the seedlings subjected to chilling after water stress treatment reveal three distinct groups of above mentioned nine cDNA clones: wsi (water stress-induced) 18, 76, and 724, representative of genes whose expression increases, decreases, and remains almost fixed during chilling, respectively. The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of the three representative clones were determined. Characteristic features of wsi18 are the presence of one set of amino acid sequence repeats, a conserved amino acid sequence common to LEA-group genes in the N-terminal region, and an alanine- and lysine-rich tract in the C-terminal region.
7999995	A receptor-like protein kinase, OsPK10, has been cloned from rice (Oryza sativa). The 2.8 kb cDNA contains an open reading frame capable of encoding a peptide sequence of 824 amino acids. The topological features of the predicted OsPK10 protein include an N-terminal signal peptide, a cysteine-rich extracellular ligand-binding domain, a membrane-spanning segment, and a cytoplasmic domain possessing all the hallmarks of catalytic domains of eukaryotic protein kinases. The cytoplasmic domain was selectively expressed in Escherichia coli and assayed for kinase activity. The results show the protein is capable of autophosphorylation using either ATP or GTP as the phosphate donor. Phosphoamino acid analysis reveals phosphorylation of threonines, consistent with the substrate specificity indicated by sequence motifs in the catalytic core. A single amino acid substitution of Glu for Lys-528 completely abolishes autophosphorylation activity. DNA gel blot analyses suggest that the haploid rice genome contains a single copy of the OsPK10 gene. OsPK10 transcripts appear to be more abundant in shoots than in roots of rice seedlings.
8148649	Phytochrome-imposed down-regulation of the expression of its own phytochrome A gene (PHYA) is one of the fastest light-induced effects on transcription reported in plants to date. Functional analysis of the oat PHYA3 promoter in a transfection assay has revealed two positive elements, PE1 and PE3, that function synergistically to support high levels of transcription in the absence of light. We have isolated a rice cDNA clone (pR4) encoding a DNA binding protein that binds to the AT-rich PE1 element. We tested the selectivity of the pR4-encoded DNA binding activity using linker substitution mutations of PE1 that are known to disrupt positive expression supported by the PHYA3 promoter in vivo. Binding to these linker substitution mutants was one to two orders of magnitude less than to the native PE1 element. Because this is the behavior expected of positive factor 1 (PF1), the presumptive nuclear transcription factor that acts in trans at the PE1 element in vivo, the data support the conclusion that the protein encoded by pR4 is in fact rice PF1. The PF1 polypeptide encoded by pR4 is 213 amino acids long and contains four repeats of the A-T hook DNA binding motif found in high-mobility group I-Y (HMGI-Y) proteins. In addition, PF1 contains an 11-amino acid-long hydrophobic region characteristic of HMG I proteins, its N-terminal region shows strong similarities to a pea H1 histone sequence and a short peptide sequence from wheat HMGa, and it shows a high degree of similarity along its entire length to the HMG Y-like protein encoded by a soybean cDNA, SB16. In vitro footprinting and quantitative gel shift analyses showed that PF1 binds preferentially to the PE1 element but also at lower affinity to two other AT-rich regions upstream of PE1. This feature is consistent with the binding characteristics of HMG I-Y proteins that are known to bind to most runs of six or more AT base pairs. Taken together, the properties of PF1 suggest that it belongs to a newly described family of nuclear proteins containing both histone H1 domains and A-T hook DNA binding domains.
8251621	Transcriptional and translational fusions were made between the reading frame coding for beta-D-glucuronidase and sequences of either a constitutively expressed rice gene (GOS2) involved in initiation of translation or a light-inducible rice gene (GOS5). The transient expression of the fusions was studied via particle bombardment of seedling tissues of rice, perennial ryegrass and barley. Furthermore, the results of transient and stable expression were compared for cell suspensions of four rice varieties, one barley variety and one perennial ryegrass variety. The GOS2-gusA fusions were active in all three monocots studied. Best results were obtained for a construct having both a transcriptional and a translational fusion as well as intron and exon sequences (PORCEHyg). The level of GUS activity was in the range of activities as obtained by the 35S CaMV promoter transcriptionally fused to gusA. The gusA fusion with the light-inducible gene (GOS5) was active in green seedling tissues of all monocots studied. Also a weak expression compared to the GOS2 constructs was found in stably transformed rice callus. The gusA fusions with the mannopine synthase promoters 1' and 2' of the TR-DNA were transiently expressed at lower levels in cell suspensions than PORCEHyg. For stably transformed rice callus the expression of the GOS2-gusA fusion often decreased during prolonged subculture. This decrease in GUS activity and the various GUS-staining phenotypes of transgenic calli are explained by the presence of different cell types in the suspensions used and in the calli. It is presumed that the nature of the cells and their relative contribution in the calli change drastically upon further subculture.
8251641	The cell-type-specific expression of three rice genes, GOS2, GOS5 and GOS9, was studied by mRNA in situ hybridization. Previous northern blot analysis revealed that these genes were constitutive, green tissue-specific and root-specific, respectively. In this study, GOS2 transcripts were observed in all leaf cell types. In roots, a temporal and spatial expression pattern was noticed. Higher mRNA levels were observed in lateral roots, especially in parenchymal cells of the vascular cylinder. Expression of GOS5 was mainly found in chloroplast-containing cells. For GOS9, significant levels of signal were observed in root and leaf sections.
8341255	We have isolated from rice suspension cells three non-sequence-related cDNAs the expression of which is markedly induced by low, non-freezing temperature. Here we further characterize one of the cDNA clones, lip19. Expression of lip19 is positively regulated by low temperature, but not affected by high (40 degrees C) temperature. Sequencing and primer extension analyses showed that lip19 has a long (552 bp) 5' non-coding sequence followed by a single open reading frame specifying a protein of 148 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of the protein, Lip19, shows at its amino-terminus a conserved basic region followed by a "leucine-zipper" domain. The reported sequence most similar to Lip19 is maize OCSBF-1, which is a bZip-type DNA binding protein. The possibility is suggested that Lip19 is a transcriptional factor that is positively controlled by low temperature.
8400127	Transcriptional and translational fusions were made between the reading frame coding for beta-D-glucuronidase and sequences of either a constitutively expressed rice gene (GOS2) involved in initiation of translation or a light-inducible rice gene (GOS5). The transient expression of the fusions was studied via particle bombardment of seedling tissues of rice, perennial ryegrass and barley. Furthermore, the results of transient and stable expression were compared for cell suspensions of four rice varieties, one barley variety and one perennial ryegrass variety. The GOS2-gusA fusions were active in all three monocots studied. Best results were obtained for a construct having both a transcriptional and a translational fusion as well as intron and exon sequences (PORCEHyg). The level of GUS activity was in the range of activities as obtained by the 35S CaMV promoter transcriptionally fused to gusA. The gusA fusion with the light-inducible gene (GOS5) was active in green seedling tissues of all monocots studied. Also a weak expression compared to the GOS2 constructs was found in stably transformed rice callus. The gusA fusions with the mannopine synthase promoters 1' and 2' of the TR-DNA were transiently expressed at lower levels in cell suspensions than PORCEHyg. For stably transformed rice callus the expression of the GOS2-gusA fusion often decreased during prolonged subculture. This decrease in GUS activity and the various GUS-staining phenotypes of transgenic calli are explained by the presence of different cell types in the suspensions used and in the calli. It is presumed that the nature of the cells and their relative contribution in the calli change drastically upon further subculture.
8405471	We isolated two rice cDNA clones (ric1 and ric2) encoding proteins homologous to the ras-related small GTP-binding protein. The amino acid sequences of ric1 and ric2 are conserved in four regions involved in GTP binding and hydrolysis which are characteristic in the ras and ras-related small GTP-binding protein genes. In addition, two consecutive cysteine residues near the carboxyl-terminal end required for membrane anchoring are also present in ric1 and ric2. The ric1 and ric2 proteins synthesized in Escherichia coli possessed GTPase activity (i.e. hydrolysis of GTP to GDP).
8421310	Large crystals of probable amylase/protease inhibitor-B have been grown at room temperature from ammonium sulfate solution. The crystals grow within five days to dimensions of 0.6 mm x 0.6 mm x 0.6 mm. They diffract to at least 1.7 A upon exposure to synchrotron X-rays. The crystals belong to the space group P4(1)2(1)2 (or P4(3)2(1)2) with unit cell dimensions of a = 38.02 A and c = 98.98 A. The presence of one molecule per asymmetric unit gives the unit cell volume per protein mass (Vm) of 1.99 A3/Da and the solvent fraction of 38.2% by volume. X-ray data have been collected to 2.0 A Bragg spacing from native crystals.
8522180	A novel cDNA clone, Oshp18.0 cDNA, encoding a rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Tainong 67) 18.0-kDa heat-shock protein (HSP), was isolated from a cDNA library of heat-shocked rice seedlings by use of the rice HSP cDNA, Oshsp17.3 cDNA, as a probe. The sequence showed that Oshsp18.0 cDNA contains a 749-bp insert encoding an ORF of 160 amino acids, with a predicted molecular mass of 18.0 kDa and a pI of 7.3. Sequence comparison reveals that Oshsp18.0 cDNA is highly homologous to other low-molecular-weight (LMW) HSP cDNAs. Also, the results of hybrid-selected in vitro translation clearly establish that Oshsp18.0 cDNA is the rice 18.0-kDa LMW HSP-encoding cDNA clone. The recombinant Oshsp18.0 fusion protein produced in Escherichia coli was of the size predicted, and was recognized by the class-I rice 16.9-kDa HSP antiserum. The results suggest that Oshsp18.0 cDNA is an 18.0-kDa class-I LMW HSP- encoding cDNA clone from rice.
8525370	The rice Xa21 gene, which confers resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae race 6, was isolated by positional cloning. Fifty transgenic rice plants carrying the cloned Xa21 gene display high levels of resistance to the pathogen. The sequence of the predicted protein, which carries both a leucine-rich repeat motif and a serine-threonine kinase-like domain, suggests a role in cell surface recognition of a pathogen ligand and subsequent activation of an intracellular defense response. Characterization of Xa21 should facilitate understanding of plant disease resistance and lead to engineered resistance in rice.
8619869	A rice homeobox gene, OSH1, contains two functionally independent promoters which generate a larger transcript and a smaller transcript. In Arabidopsis, each promoter can drive the expression of a reporter gene in a different manner, indicating that the expression of different sized transcripts is independently regulated by each promoter. Over-expression of the larger transcript in transformed plants caused altered morphologies (Matsuoka et al., Plant Cell, 1993, 5, 1039-1048); in contrast, over-expression of the smaller transcript did not cause any morphological changes. The results suggest that the product of the smaller transcript fails to alter the expression of its target gene(s) in the transformants, while that of the larger transcript is capable of altering the expression of its target gene(s).
8628242	Transgenic tobacco plants were generated carrying a rice homeobox gene, OSH1, controlled by the promoter of a gene encoding a tobacco pathogenesis-related protein (PR1a). These lines were morphologically abnormal, with wrinkled and/or lobed leaves. Histological analysis of shoot apex primordia indicates arrest of lateral leaf blade expansion, often resulting in asymmetric and anisotrophic growth of leaf blades. Other notable abnormalities included abnormal or arrested development of leaf lateral veins. Interestingly, OHS1 expression was undetectable in mature leaves with the aberrant morphological features. Thus, OSH1 expression in mature leaves is not necessary for abnormal leaf development. Northern blot and in situ hybridization analyses indicate that PR1a-OSH1 is expressed only in the shoot apical meristem and in very young leaf primordia. Therefore, the aberrant morphological features are an indirect consequence of ectopic OSH1 gene expression. The only abnormality observed in tissues expressing the transgene was periclinal (rather than anticlinal) division in mesophyll cells during leaf blade initiation. This generates thicker leaf blades and disrupts the mesophyll cell layers, from which vascular tissues differentiate. The OSH1 product appears to affect the mechanism controlling the orientation of the plane of cell division, resulting in abnormal periclinal division of mesophyll cell, which in turn results in the gross morphological abnormalities observed in the transgenic lines.
8672890	GT-2 is a novel DNA binding protein that interacts with a triplet functionally defined, positively acting GT-box motifs (GT1-bx, GT2-bx, and GT3-bx) in the rice phytochrome A gene (PHYA) promoter. Data from a transient transfection assay used here show that recombinant GT-2 enhanced transcription from both homologous and heterologous GT-box-containing promoters, thereby indicating that this protein can function as a transcriptional activator in vivo. Previously, we have shown that GT-2 contains separate DNA binding determinants in its N- and C-terminal halves, with binding site preferences for the GT3-bx and GT2-bx promoter motifs, respectively. Here, we demonstrate that the minimal DNA binding domains reside within dual 90-amino acid polypeptide segments encompassing duplicated sequences, termed trihelix regions, in each half of the molecule, plus 15 additional immediately adjacent amino acids downstream. These minimal binding domains retained considerable target sequence selectivity for the different GT-box motifs, but this selectivity was enhanced by a separate polypeptide segment farther downstream on the C-terminal side of each trihelix region. Therefore, the data indicate that the twin DNA binding domains of GT-2 each consist of a general GT-box recognition core with intrinsic differential binding activity toward closely related target motifs and a modified sequence conferring higher resolution reciprocal selectivity between these motifs.
8704128	The relationship between the length of anthers and the stage of development of microspores was examined in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Hayayuki). Anthers of < or = 2 mm and 2.1-2.2 mm in length and those ready to dehiscence were determined to be at the uninucleate, binucleate and trinucleate microspore stage, respectively. Two cDNAs (YY1 and YY2), representing genes that are specifically expressed in anthers at the uninucleate microspore stage, were isolated and characterized. YY1 cDNA encoded an open reading frame of 95 amino acids. Eight cysteine residues with the potential to form disulfide bridges were present in the amino acid sequence. There was a hydrophobic region at the N-terminus of the putative protein, suggesting that the YY1 protein might be secreted. This cysteine motif and the hydrophobic N-terminus are conserved among products of several anther-specific genes or cDNAs isolated from various plant species. These proteins are thought to form a superfamily of proteins that are confined to anthers. The YY1 transcript was localized in the tapetal cells and the peripheral cells of the vascular bundle. YY2 cDNA encoded an open reading frame of 389 amino acids and the deduced amino acid sequence exhibited substantial homology to that of chalcone synthase. Expression of YY2 mRNA was confined to the tapetal cells. The genes correspond to YY1 and YY2 cDNAs were shown to exist as single copies in the rice genome.
8720923	Probenazole (3-allyloxy-1,2-benzisothiazole-1,1-dioxide) induces disease resistance in rice against rice blast fungus. To investigate the molecular mechanism of probenazole-induced resistance, we isolated and characterized a cDNA clone of a probenazole-inducible gene in rice, which encoded a protein designated PBZ1. Sequence analysis revealed that significant homology at the amino acid level exists between the predicted PBZ1 protein and intracellular pathogenesis-related (IPR) proteins. Accumulation of PBZ1 mRNA was not induced by wounding, but markedly induced by inoculation with rice blast fungus. In addition, it was induced sooner by inoculation with an incompatible race than that with a compatible race. On the other hand, when the accumulation of the PBZ1 mRNA was examined after treatment with probenazole-related compounds, it was not fully correlated with anti-rice blast activity. However, it was induced after treatment with N-cyano-methyl-2-chloro-isonicotinamide (NCI), which belongs to another group of compounds known to induce disease resistance. Thus, although the accumulation of the PBZ1 mRNA was not fully correlated with anti-rice blast activity, our findings suggest that the PBZ1 gene has an important function during the disease resistance response in rice.
8790296	The RNA editing processes in chloroplasts and mitochondira of higher plants show several similarities which are suggestive of common components and/or biochemical steps between the two plant organelles. The existence of various promiscuous DNA fragments of chloroplast origin in plant mitochondrial genomes allowed us to test the possibility that chloroplast sequences are also edited in mitochondria. An rpoB fragment transferred from chloroplasts to mitochondria in rice was chosen as it contains several editing sites, two of which match sequence motifs surrounding even non-homologous editing sites in both chloroplast and mitochondrial transcripts. Rice chloroplast and mitochondrial rpoB DNA and cDNA sequences were selectively amplified and the editing status of the cDNA sequences was determined. Three of the four potential rpoB editing sites previously detected in maize were found to be edited in the rice chloroplast rpoB transcript, whereas the fourth was found to remain unedited. In mitochondria, however, all four editing sites remain unmodified at the cDNA level. This indicates that the editing processes of higher plant mitochondria and chloroplasts are not identical and that organelle-specific factors are required for eliciting the respective editing events.
8811865	It has been hypothesized that plants contain respiratory burst oxidase which, upon activation, oxidize NADPH and generate extracellular superoxide, O2.-. These proteins are proposed to play a central role in defence against pathogens. However, plant DNA sequences that encode proteins with similarity to components of respiratory burst oxidase have not previously been reported. This paper describes the complete cDNA and genomic DNA sequence of the rice rbohA (for respiratory burst oxidase homologue) gene. The predicted RbohA product is most similar to the main catalytic subunit, gp91phox, of the respiratory burst oxidase of neutrophils. Reverse transcriptase PCR detects rbohA transcripts in both roots and shoots of healthy rice plants.
8864847	Plant seeds store triacylglycerols in discrete organelles called oil bodies. An oil body stores a matrix of triacylglycerols surrounded by phospholipids and alkaline proteins termed oleosins. Oil bodies in rice seeds are present in embryos and aleurone layers. They do not coalesce in crowded environments, as observed on electron microscopy. The detected isoelectric point of purified rice oil bodies is pH 6.2. This implies that rice oil bodies possess a negatively charged surface at neutral pH. The suspension of rice oil bodies in pH 6.5 buffer induces aggregation. Presumably, the negatively charged surface causes electrostatic repulsion that maintains rice oil bodies as discrete organelles. Rice oil bodies lose their integrity on trypsin treatment. Undoubtedly, oleosins play an important role in the stability of oil bodies. There are two oleosin isoforms in rice oil bodies. Antibodies raised against these two homologous isoforms do not cross-recognize each other. Both isoforms are restricted to oil bodies, as detected on immuno-assaying. Partial amino acid sequences of these two isoforms were obtained, and compared with the deduced sequences of two maize and two rice oleosin genes. The comparison confirmed that the two major proteins in rice oil bodies are the two oleosin isoforms.
8883374	To localize abscisic acid (ABA)-inducible gene expression of rab16 genes, rab16A promoter was linked to the gusA reporter gene encoding beta-glucuronidase and introduced into rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants. The activity of rab16A promoter was induced by ABA and osmotic stresses in various tissues of vegetative and floral organs. In anthers and embryos, rab16A promoter was active in the absence of ABA. To elucidate cis-elements of the rab16 promoter that confer ABA-inducible expression, variously modified 40-bp fragments (-264 to -225) of the rab16B promoter were fused to a truncated (-46 bp) cauliflower mosaic virus 35S minimal promoter, and their activities in protoplasts were analyzed. The transient assays revealed that the 40-bp fragment consists of two separate ABA-responsive elements, motif 1 (AGTACGTGGC) and motif III (GCCGCGTGGC). Motif I and motif III are both required for ABA induction; however, each can substitute for the other. Further analyses of these motifs indicated that motif III has a distinct DNA sequence specificity as an ABA-responsive element from motif I, suggesting that the two motifs interact with different transcription factors in vivo.
8906637	Rice bran trypsin inhibitor (RBTI) was digested by pepsin alone or by pepsin and pancreatin with or without bovine serum albumin (BSA) to clarify the changes in trypsin inhibitory activity, apparent antigenicity, and molecular size of RBTI. In vitro pepsin digestion of RBTI in the absence of BSA caused the gradual loss of the trypsin inhibitory activity and antigenicity. This was mostly due to a progressive degradation of the native 14.5-kDa RBTI molecule to small molecular mass products. The presence of BSA in the digestion mixture prevented the RBTI degradation and was accompanied with a considerable protection of the activity and antigenicity. Similar results were also given by in vitro pepsin-pancreatin digestion. These findings suggest that RBTI may be present in its active form in the gastrointestinal tract when fed to animals, especially with a dietary protein.
8980501	A type 2 metallothionein-like gene from rice, OsMT-2 (Oryza sativa metallothionein-like gene-2), was isolated in its cDNA form and sequenced. By northern analyses OsMT-2 expression was shown to be induced under stress by sucrose starvation, heat shock and, to a lesser extent, abscisic acid, but not excess metals, including copper. Its response to sucrose starvation was transient and different from OsMT-1, a type 1 metallothionein-like gene of rice inducible by copper. These results suggest that while OsMT-2 is also involved in cellular response to stress, its function may be complementary to that of OsMT-1.
9049271	Many plant basic leucine-zipper (bZIP) proteins have been isolated several of which have been shown to play a role in seed-specific gene expression. We isolated a novel bZIP protein (REB) gene encoding 425 amino acid residues from rice endosperm, which is similar to Opaque-2 heterodimerizing protein (OHP) of maize. The gene product, termed REB, contains Pro- and Gly-rich regions at its N terminus, followed by the typical basic and leucine-repeat regions. Recombinant REB binds to the region from -754 to -562 in the alpha-globulin gene promoter, but not to promoters of other major storage genes such as glutelin, prolamin and albumin. The 5' region of the alpha-globulin gene possesses three binding sites for REB, which were determined as GCCACGT(A/C)AG, by using synthetic oligonucleotides. A Super-shift assay using anti-REB antibody suggested that REB is a major DNA-binding protein for the alpha-globulin gene promoter in rice endosperm.
9076993	This paper describes the characterization of Oshox1, a cDNA clone from rice encoding a member of the homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) class of putative transcription factors. Oshox1 maps to chromosome 10 and belongs to a family of related rice genes. Two-hybrid assays showed that Oshox1 protein can homodimerize, but can also form heterodimers with an Arabidopsis HD-Zip protein. This suggests that protein-protein interactions may also occur between different HD-Zip proteins in rice, which would provide enormous versatility for generating specific gene-control mechanisms. Oshox1 mRNA could be detected in various rice tissues at different developmental stages, with highest levels in embryos, shoots of seedlings, and leaves of mature plants. Transgenic expression of Oshox1 in Arabidopsis retarded growth and affected leaf size and shape, indicative of a role as developmental regulator. In vitro and in vivo DNA-binding studies revealed that Oshox1 interacts with the pseudopalindromic sequence CAAT(C/G)ATTG, confirming that the protein represents a transcription factor. Oshox1 was found to repress reporter gene activity in rice suspension cells, most likely by a mechanism of active transcriptional repression. Repression was strictly dependent on the presence of upstream Oshox1 binding sites in the reporter gene constructs and a function of the N-terminal region of Oshox1, preceding the homeodomain.
9150608	A cDNA clone, OsGAmyb, which encodes a homologue to the barley Myb-like transcription factor, HvGAMyb, was isolated from a rice endosperm cDNA library. The clone was used to show that expression of the OsGAmyb gene in aleurone cells was stimulated by gibberellic acid and the gene product was shown to transactivate an alpha-amylase gene promoter in transient expression analyses.
9154989	The mammalian Nramp1 protein is an integral membrane protein expressed exclusively in macrophages, where it plays a critical role in the ability of these cells to destroy ingested microbes. The bactericidal mechanism of action of Nramp1 remains unknown. We report the identification and characterization of cDNA clones corresponding to three homologues of the mammalian Nramp1 gene from the genome of Oryza sativa, OsNramp1, OsNramp2, and OsNramp3. These three genes encode a novel group of highly similar hydrophobic polypeptides sharing between 64% and 75% sequence similarity, that show similar hydropathy profiles, and predicted secondary structure, including the same number, position, and sequence characteristics (including conserved charges) of transmembrane domains. Together, these define a highly conserved membrane associated hydrophobic core. The three plant proteins show a remarkable degree of sequence similarity with their mammalian counterpart (60% to 70% similarity), including primary and secondary structure elements previously described in ion transporters and channels. Expression studies in normal plant tissues indicate that while OsNramp1 is expressed primarily in roots, and OsNramp2 is primarily expressed in leaves, OsNramp3 is expressed in both tissues. The recent discovery that the yeast Nramp homologue SMF1 functions as a manganese transporter raises the exciting possibility that OsNramp encodes a family of metal ion transporters in plants.
9210336	We have used subtractive hybridization to isolate cDNA clones whose expression were up-regulated in transgenic tobacco ectopically expressing the rice homeobox gene, OSH1. Thirty-nine distinct cDNA clones, which we term HRGs (Homeobox Regulated Genes), were identified. Some of them were specifically expressed in transformants, indicating that their expression was possibly regulated by transgene.
9265787	A novel cDNA clone osr40cl, encoding a abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive 40-kDa protein previously associated with salt tolerance (Moons et al. '1995' Plant Physiol 107: 177-186), was isolated from roots of rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.). Exogenously applied ABA and salt shock induced a marked increase of the osr40cl transcript level in roots of seedlings whereas constant osr40cl mRNA levels were found in the shoot. The root-specific salinity-induced osr40cl mRNA accumulation was rapid and gradually declined upon prolonged salt shock. Plant growth regulators, signalling the wounding and the pathogen response, did not enhance osr40cl expression, indicating a salt- and osmotic-stress-specific response. The encoded OSR40cl protein was found to be hydrophilic, rich in histidine residues (6%) constituting putative metal-binding domains, and to consist of a duplicated domain of 151 amino acids (75% identical), that can form amphiphilic alpha-helical structures. The gene osr40cl belongs to a multigene family. Two osr40 genes were isolated, osr40g2 and osr40g3, tandemly arranged in an 8-kb region of the rice genome. Antisera raised against a conserved OSR40 peptide recognized different OSR40 proteins that accumulated in roots upon exposure to salt stress. The OSR40 protein family included 29-KDa proteins and two 40-kDa proteins, the latter most probably corresponding to OSR40cl and OSR40g2 with duplicated domain structures. The osr40g3 transcript encoded a single copy of the OSR40 domain and exhibited a shoot-specific expression. Results indicate that OSR40cl plays a role in the adaptive response of roots to an hyper-osmotic environment and belongs to a novel plant protein family that most probably has structural functions.
9286106	The rice disease resistance gene Xa21, encoding a receptor-like kinase, is a member of a multigene family. Sequence analysis of seven family members revealed two distinct classes of genes. One member from each class encodes a receptor kinase-like open reading frame. The other five members encode truncated open reading frames of the predicted receptor kinase. A highly conserved 233-bp sequence (HC) was also identified among the seven family members. Recombination at the HC region between family members apparently resulted in the precise swapping of promoter regions. Large sequence duplications were generated by a presumed unequal crossover event in intergenic regions. Insertions of transposon-like sequences truncated two of the predicted open reading frames. A model for amplification and diversification of the Xa21 gene family is presented.
9338963	We have previously defined the promoter elements, sites IIa and IIb, in the rice proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) gene that are essential for meristematic tissue-specific expression. In this study, we isolated and characterized cDNAs encoding proteins that specifically bind to sites IIa and IIb. The two DNA binding proteins, designated PCF1 and PCF2, share > 70% homology in common conserved sequences at the N-terminal regions. The conserved regions are responsible for DNA binding and homodimer and heterodimer formation, and they contain a putative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) motif. The structure and DNA binding specificity of the bHLH motif are distinguishable from those of other known bHLH proteins that bind to the E-box. The motif is > 70% homologous to several expressed sequence tags from Arabidopsis and rice, suggesting that PCF1 and PCF2 are members of a novel family of proteins that are conserved in monocotyledons and dicotyledons. A supershift assay using an anti-PCF2 antibody showed the involvement of PCF2 in site IIa (site IIb) binding activities in rice nuclear extracts, particularly in meristematic tissues. PCF1 and PCF2 were also more likely to form heterodimers than homodimers. Our results suggest that PCF1 and PCF2 are involved in meristematic tissue-specific expression of the rice PCNA gene through binding to sites IIa and IIb and formation of homodimers or heterodimers.
9363782	The ORrab2 gene encodes a GTP-binding protein of 23.169 kDa. The deduced amino acid sequence shows that ORrab2 has the motifs conserved among small GTP-binding proteins in plants and that it shares sequence identity with Atrab2 (93.0%), Hrab2 (85.2%), Hrab4 (51.9%), Hrab1 (46.2%), YPT (40.7%), Hrab3B (40.0%), Hrab3A (38.1%), SEC4 (38.1%), Hrab5 (34.3%) and Hrab6 (32.4%). To analyze the biochemical properties of this protein, an ORrab2 cDNA was overexpressed in Escherichia coli and the protein purified by Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose and hydroxyapatite column chromatography. The molecular mass of the protein bearing a His-tag is approximately 28.2 kDa. The guanine-nucleotide binding and hydrolyzing activity of ORrab2 increased with non-ionic C12E10 (polyoxyethylene 10-lauryl ether) and ionic Chaps detergent treatment. ORrab2 bound maximally 1.03 mol of [gamma-35S]GTP[S]/mol of protein with a Kd value of 56.83 nM. The ratios k(off GDP)/k(off GTP) of ORrab2 were 3.63 for the control, 3.7 in the presence of C12E10, and 3.83 with Chaps, indicating that ORrab2 has a higher affinity for GTP than GDP. The rate (k(cat)) of Pi release against [gamma-32P]GTP bound ORrab2 in a steady state and the rate of hydrolysis of [gamma-32P]GTP (kGTPase) were calculated to be 432 x 10(-4) +/- 8 x 10(-4) min(-1) and 172 x 10(-4) +/- 2 x 10(-4) min(-1), respectively, in the presence of 0.1% C12E10 and 1 mM MgSO4.
9380743	A gene encoding the rice 16.9-kDa class I low-molecular-mass (LMM) heat-shock protein (HSP), Oshsp16.9, was introduced into Escherichia coli using the pGEX-2T expression vector to analyze the possible function of this LMM HSP under heat stress. It is known that E. coli does not normally produce class I LMM HSPs. We compared the survivability of E. coli XL1-Blue cells transformed with a recombinant plasmid containing a glutathione S-transferase (GST)-Oshsp16.9 fusion protein (pGST-FL cells) with the control E. coli cells transformed with the pGEX-2T vector (pGST cells) under heat-shock (HS) after isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside induction. The pGST-FL cells demonstrated thermotolerance at 47.5 degrees C, a treatment that was lethal to the pGST cells. When the cell lysates from these two E. coli transformants were heated at 55 degrees C, the amount of protein denatured in the pGST-FL cells was 50% less than that of the pGST cells. Similar results as pGST-FL cells were obtained in pGST-N78 cells (cells produced a fusion protein with only the N-terminal 78 aa in the Oshsp16.9 portion) but not in pGST-C108 cells (cells produced a fusion protein with C-terminal 108 aa in the Oshsp16.9 portion). The acquired thermotolerant pGST-FL cells synthesized three types of HSPs, including the 76-, 73-, and 64-kDa proteins according to their abundance at a lethal temperature of 47.5 degrees C. This finding indicates that a plant class I LMM HSP, when effectively expressed in transformed prokaryotic cells that do not normally synthesize this class of LMM HSPs, may directly or indirectly increase thermotolerance.
9426621	We have isolated two overlapping cDNAs coding for a MYB-related protein expressed in aerobic and anaerobic rice (Oryza sativa) roots and coleoptiles. Analysis of their sequences reveals some peculiar features, suggesting the presence of post-transcriptional regulation events: an upstream ORF, two unspliced introns and a putative leucine zipper in the ORF coded by the unspliced RNA. Transient expression in protoplasts indicates that the upstream ORF inhibits expression of a downstream coding sequence. Finally, we demonstrated that anoxia, in roots, increases the ratio between the spliced and the unspliced mRNA and affects the expression of other myb-related genes.
9473660	Here we report the isolation of a tobacco cDNA which is a counterpart gene of rice low-temperature-induced lip19. Expression of the gene (termed tbz17) is also positively controlled by low temperature but fairly moderately compared with the low-temperature-responsiveness of rice lip19 and the maize counterpart gene, mlip15. The predicted gene product (termed TBZ17) is a bZIP protein of 145 amino acids and shows about 45% identity with rice LIP19 and maize mLIP15 proteins. DNA binding studies indicate that TBZ17 has quite similar DNA binding characteristics to that of mLIP15. The results suggest that low-temperature-induced gene(s) encoding a DNA binding factor with bZIP motif is omni-present in higher plants.
9482818	FLORICAULA (FLO) of Antirrhinum and LEAFY (FLY) of Arabidopsis regulate the formation of floral meristems. To examine whether same mechanisms control floral development in distantly related species such as grasses, we isolated RFL, FLO-LFY homolog of rice, and examined its expression and function. Northern analysis showed that RFL is expressed predominantly in very young panicle but not in mature florets, mature leaves, or roots. In situ hybridization revealed that RFL RNA was expressed in epidermal cells in young leaves at vegetative growth stage. After the transition to reproductive stage, RFL RNA was detected in all layers of very young panicle including the apical meristem, but absent in the incipient primary branches. As development of branches proceeds, RFL RNA accumulation localized in the developing branches except for the apical meristems of the branches and secondary branch primordia. Expression pattern of RFL raised a possibility that, unlike FLO and LFY, RFL might be involved in panicle branching. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants constitutively expressing RFL from the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were produced to test whether 35S-RFL would cause similar phenotype as observed in 35S-LFY plants. In 35S-RFL plants, transformation of inflorescence meristem to floral meristem was rarely observed. Instead, development of cotyledons, rosette leaves, petals, and stamens was severely affected, demonstrating that RFL function is distinct from that of LFY. Our results suggest that mechanisms controlling floral development in rice might be diverged from that of Arabidopsis and Antirrhinum.
9489007	The rice (Oryza sativa L.) homeobox gene OSH1 causes morphological alterations when ectopically expressed in transgenic rice, Arabidopsis thaliana, and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) and is therefore believed to function as a morphological regulator gene. To determine the relationship between OSH1 expression and morphological alterations, we analyzed the changes in hormone levels in transgenic tobacco plants exhibiting abnormal morphology. Levels of the plant hormones indole-3-acetic acid, abscisic acid, gibberellin (GA), and cytokinin (zeatin and trans-zeatin [Z]) were measured in leaves of OSH1-transformed and wild-type tobacco. Altered plant morphology was found to correlate with changes in hormone levels. The more severe the alteration in phenotype of transgenic tobacco, the greater were the changes in endogenous hormone levels. Overall, GA1 and GA4 levels decreased and abscisic acid levels increased compared with wild-type plants. Moreover, in the transformants, Z (active form of cytokinin) levels were higher and the ratio of Z to Z riboside (inactive form) also increased. When GA3 was supplied to the shoot apex of transformants, internode extension was restored and normal leaf morphology was also partially restored. However, such GA3-treated plants still exhibited some morphological abnormalities compared with wild-type plants. Based on these data, we propose the hypothesis that OSH1 affects plant hormone metabolism either directly or indirectly and thereby causes changes in plant development.
9517002	One of the water stress-specific cDNA clones of rice characterised previously, wsi18, was selected for further study. The wsi18 gene can be induced by water stress conditions such as mannitol, NaCl, and dryness, but not by ABA, cold, or heat. A genomic clone for wsi18, pwsi18, contained about 1.7 kbp of the 5' upstream sequence, two introns, and the full coding sequence. The 5'-upstream sequence of pwsi18 contained putative cis-acting elements, namely an ABA-responsive element (ABRE), three G-boxes, three E-boxes, a MEF-2 sequence, four direct and two inverted repeats, and four sequences similar to DRE, which is involved in the dehydration response of Arabidopsis genes. The gusA reporter gene under the control of the pwsi18 promoter showed transient expression in response to water stress. Deletion of the downstream DRE-like sequence between the distal G-boxes-2 and -3 resulted in rather low GUS expression.
9538209	The oil bodies of plant seeds contain a triacylglycerol matrix surrounded by a monolayer of phospholipids embedded with alkaline proteins termed oleosins. Two distinct oleosin isoforms with molecular masses of 18 and 16 kDa are present in rice oil bodies. Chicken antibodies raised against oleosin 18 kDa and rabbit antibodies raised against oleosin 16 kDa did not cross-recognize these two homologous isoforms. This peculiar non-cross recognition was used to locate the two oleosin isoforms on the surface of oil bodies via immunofluorescence detection using anti-chicken IgG conjugated with FITC (fluorescein isothiocyanate) and anti-rabbit IgG conjugated with Texas-Red. The results revealed that both oleosin isoforms resided on each oil body in vivo and in vitro. Artificial oil bodies were reconstituted via sonication using triacylglycerol, phospholipid, and oleosins. The results indicated that the two rice oleosin isoforms could stabilize artificial oil bodies individually whereas oleosin 16 kDa provided better stability to the organelles than oleosin 18 kDa.
9538219	Oleosins are hydrophobic proteins localized abundantly in the oil bodies of plant seeds. Two distinct oleosin isoforms of molecular masses 18 and 16 kDa are present in rice oil bodies. These isoforms were found in similar ratio in rice embryos and aleurone layers. To survey potential DNA sequences involved in the activation of oleosin genes, a genomic clone of rice 18 kDa oleosin was sequenced, and its 5'-flanking region was compared with that of the known rice 16 kDa oleosin gene. Corresponding mRNAs of the two rice oleosin isoforms appeared seven days after pollination and vanished in mature seeds. Triacylglycerols and oleosins were accumulated concomitantly in maturing rice reeds in accord with the active assembly of oil bodies, and partly mobilized in postgerminative seedlings. Approximately 60% of the stored triacylglycerols in rice were not utilized: while the majority of oil bodies in embryos were mobilized in five days after imbibition, those in aleurone layers remained intact in postgerminative seedlings.
9596635	The rice Xa21 gene confers resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae in a race-specific manner. Analysis of the inheritance patterns and resistance spectra of transgenic plants carrying six Xa21 gene family members indicated that one member, designated Xa21D, displayed a resistance spectrum identical to that observed for Xa21 but conferred only partial resistance. Xa21D encodes a receptor-like protein carrying leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motifs in the presumed extracellular domain. The Xa21D transcript terminates shortly after the stop codon introduced by the retrotransposon Retrofit. Comparison of nucleotide substitutions in the LRR coding regions of Xa21 and Xa21D provided evidence of adaptive selection. Both functional and evolutionary evidence indicates that the Xa21D LRR domain controls race-specific pathogen recognition.
9617819	Among the four classes of chitinase, a class II chitinase had not yet been reported for rice. We have isolated and characterized a class II acidic chitinase, Rcht2, from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Cheongcheongbyeo). The protein consists of a single polypeptide chain of 261 amino acid residues and includes a putative signal sequence of 29 amino acids at its N-terminus. It has a calculated molecular mass of 27,642 Da and an isoelectric point of 5.56. The Rcht2 chitinase lacks the cysteine-rich and hinge domains in the N-terminal region of the protein, which is the criterion for its classification as a class II chitinase. Comparison of the genomic and the cDNA sequence revealed that the coding region of Rcht2 consist of three exons of 301, 112, and 370 bp separated by two introns of 89 and 984 bp. In suspension-cultured rice cells, the transcript level of Rcht2 was dramatically increased by treatment with both glycol chitin and fungal elicitor. The application of protein phosphatase 1 and 2A inhibitors, calyculin A and okadaic acid, effectively abolished the induction of Rcht2 in response to fungal elicitor. In contrast, the activation of Rcht2 transcript was not inhibited by both cycloheximide and protein kinase inhibitors. These results demonstrate that protein dephosphorylation events play a crucial role in the elicitor-mediated induction of Rcht2 in rice cells, while de novo protein synthesis is not required for induction.
9630507	Protein kinases play important roles in controlling biological functions. We employed PCR-based cloning technique to isolate a protein kinase gene from rice endosperm and obtained a novel protein kinase (REK) cDNA clone from a cDNA library constructed from maturing rice seed. The deduced amino acid sequence from the cDNA exhibited a high similarity to the wheat abscisic acid inducible protein kinase (PKABA1), including 11 conserved regions of the catalytic domain. REK belongs to the SNF1-related family that possesses abundant acidic amino acid resides in the C-terminal region. RT-PCR analysis showed that the REK gene is expressed in leaf and maturing seed, but not in stem and root. Bacterial recombinant REK showed autophosphorylation activity depending upon Ca2+. In addition, we isolated a REK genomic clone and determined its gene structure.
9652390	Acquired resistance of rice to Pyricularia oryzae, the causing agent of rice blast, can be induced by inoculation with the non-host pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. We have previously cloned a cDNA and a corresponding gene (Pir7b) whose transcripts accumulate upon infiltration with the resistance-inducing bacteria. The putative encoded product Pir7b exhibits significant sequence similarity to two recently cloned hydroxynitrile lyases from Manihot esculenta (cassava) and Hevea brasisliensis, enzymes involved in the release of hydrogen cyanide from cyanogenic glycosides. As rice does not contain cyanogenic glycosides, a similar function of Pir7b appears unplausible. In order to functionally characterize the protein, recombinant Pir7b was produced in Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We show that recombinant Pir7b does not have hydroxynitrile lyase activity, but exhibits esterase activity towards naphthol AS-acetate. Using Pir7b-specific antibodies, we show that the protein accumulates in rice leaves inoculated with P. syringae pv. syringae. Both the recombinant and the authentic proteins have an apparent molecular mass of 32 kDa (28.8 kDa calculated) and seem to be active as monomers. Pir7b esterase also exhibits sequence similarity to several expressed sequence tags of Arabidopsis thaliana, indicating that it belongs to a family of proteins widely occuring in plants.
9669326	The rice disease resistance gene Xa21, which encodes a receptor-like kinase, is a member of a multigene family. Based on comparisons of genomic sequences of seven family members, seventeen transposon-like elements were identified in the 5' and 3' flanking regions and introns of these genes. Sequence characterization revealed that these elements are diverse, showing similarity to maize Ds, CACTA and miniature inverted repeat-like elements, as well as novel elements. Only two elements were located in presumed coding regions, indicating that integration of transposable elements at the Xa21 disease resistance locus occurred preferentially in noncoding regions.
9701574	We previously reported that overexpression of the rice homeobox gene OSH1 led to altered morphology and hormone levels in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) plants. Among the hormones whose levels were changed, GA1 was dramatically reduced. Here we report the results of our analysis on the regulatory mechanism(s) of OSH1 on GA metabolism. GA53 and GA20, precursors of GA1, were applied separately to transgenic tobacco plants exhibiting severely changed morphology due to overexpression of OSH1. Only treatment with the end product of GA 20-oxidase, GA20, resulted in a striking promotion of stem elongation in transgenic tobacco plants. The internal GA1 and GA20 contents in OSH1-transformed tobacco were dramatically reduced compared with those of wild-type plants, whereas the level of GA19, a mid-product of GA 20-oxidase, was 25% of the wild-type level. We have isolated a cDNA encoding a putative tobacco GA 20-oxidase, which is mainly expressed in vegetative stem tissue. RNA-blot analysis revealed that GA 20-oxidase gene expression was suppressed in stem tissue of OSH1-transformed tobacco plants. Based on these results, we conclude that overexpression of OSH1 causes a reduction of the level of GA1 by suppressing GA 20-oxidase expression.
9747803	In rice (Oryza sativa L.), local acquired resistance against Pyricularia oryzae (Cav.), the causal agent of rice blast, can be induced by a preinoculation with the non-host pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. We have cloned a cDNA (Rir1a) and a closely related gene (Rir1b) corresponding to transcripts that accumulate in leaf tissue upon inoculation with P. syringae pv. syringae. The cDNA encodes a putative 107 amino acid protein, Rir1a, that exhibits a putative signal peptide cleavage site in its hydrophobic N-terminal part and a C-terminal part that is relatively rich in glycine and proline. The Rir1b gene contains a Tourist and a Wanderer miniature transposable element in its single intron and encodes a nearly identical protein. Rir1a is similar in sequence (ca. 35% identical and ca. 60% conservatively changed amino acids) to the putative Wir1 family of proteins that are encoded by pathogen-induced transcripts in wheat. Using antibodies raised against a Rir1a-fusion protein we show that Rir1a is secreted from rice protoplasts transiently expressing a 35S::Rir1a construct and that the protein accumulates in the cell wall compartment of rice leaves upon inoculation with P. syringae pv. syringae. Possible roles of Rir1a in pathogen defense are discussed.
9848232	We describe the construction of a number of vectors that can be used in yeast genetic selection systems for cloning of transcription factors or other DNA-binding proteins and for identification of the target sites recognized by transcription factors. For transcription factor cloning we have designed an integration vector with two HIS3 reporter gene cassettes to stably integrate reporter gene constructs at the non-essential yeast PDC6 locus. This set of plasmids was tested in a one-hybrid assay with the rice transcription factor Oshox1, a member of the class of homeodomain leucine zipper proteins. A hybrid protein of Oshox1 and the Gal4 transcriptional activation domain was shown to specifically activate a reporter gene construct with upstream Oshox1 binding sites, which had been integrated at the PDC6 locus using the described vector system. Target site identification by genetic selection in yeast employs a transcriptional activator construct and a library of genomic or random DNA fragments upstream of a reporter gene. We have constructed two variants of a bacteriophage lambda vector which facilitates the construction of the required reporter gene library because of high cloning efficiency and easy conversion into a yeast/Escherichia coli shuttle vector library by Cre-loxP-mediated automatic subcloning. Tests with Oxhox1 as transcriptional activator demonstrated the usefulness of the deprived reporter gene vector.
9869405	In many eukaryotic organisms including plants, homeobox genes are thought to be master regulators that establish the cellular or regional identities and specify the fundamental body plan. We isolated and characterized a cDNA designated OSH15 (Oryza sativa homeobox 15) that encodes a KNOTTED-type homeodomain protein. Transgenic tobacco plants overexpressing the OSH15 cDNA showed a dramatically altered morphological phenotype caused by disturbance of specific aspects of tobacco development, thereby indicating the involvement of OSH15 in plant development. We analyzed the in situ mRNA localization of OSH15 through the whole plant life cycle, comparing the expression pattern with that of another rice homeobox gene, OSH1. In early embryogenesis, both genes were expressed as the same pattern at a region where the shoot apical meristem would develop later. In late embryogenesis, the expression pattern of the two genes became different. Whereas the expression of OSH1 continued within the shoot apical meristem, OSH15 expression within the shoot apical meristem ceased but became observable in a ring shaped pattern at the boundaries of some embryonic organs. This pattern of expression was similar to that observed around vegetative or reproductive shoots, or the floral meristem in mature plants. RNA in situ localization data suggest that OSH15 may play roles in the shoot organization during early embryogenesis and thereafter, OSH15 may be involved in morphogenetic events around the shoot apical meristem.
9951720	The expression pattern of the salT gene was analyzed in different cell types and organs of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in response to saline and hormonal treatments to obtain detailed information on the physiological cues controlling gene expression. Gel blot analysis of RNA and in-situ hybridization performed on seedlings grown for 10 ds in the presence of 1% NaCl revealed that salT was expressed mainly in the younger tissues of the plant. In contrast, 6-week-old plants exhibited maximal salT mRNA accumulation in sheaths of older leaves. In addition, salT was normally expressed in rapidly dividing suspension-cultured cells, but not in quiescent ones. Altogether, these results may indicate that salT expression in each region of the plant is dependent on the metabolic activity of the cells as well as on whether or not they are stressed. The effects of two growth regulators, abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellic acid, were investigated in combination with the effects of NaCl. Gibberellic acid had a synergistic effect on the induction of the salT gene when combined with 0.5% NaCl, but did not induce salT on its own. At 10 microM, ABA induced salT both in the absence of NaCl and in its presence. Whereas 1 microM ABA acted additively with NaCl to induce gene expression, 5 microM ABA with NaCl was only as effective as NaCl alone. This may indicate that the two stimuli act independently and possibly through antagonistic signal transduction pathways.
10003477
10006913
10010746
10024476	A putative rice trypsin/chymotrypsin inhibitor of the Bowman-Birk family, RBBI-8 of about 20 kDa, was expressed in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein bearing an N-terminal (His)6 purification tag. The expressed recombinant protein, rRBBI-8, is insoluble and accumulates as inclusion bodies. The insoluble protein was solubilized in 8 M urea under reducing environment and then refolded into its active conformation under optimized redox conditions. Strategies used to optimize yield and efficiency include selecting the redox system, increasing protein concentration during refolding by adding the denatured protein in a stepwise way, utilizing additives to prevent aggregation, and selecting buffer-exchanging conditions. A Ni-chelate affinity column was then employed to purify the renatured protein. rRBBI-8 shows strong inhibitory activity against trypsin and it can slightly inhibit chymotrypsin. In this study, a refolding and purification system was set up for this cysteine-rich recombinant protein expressed in a prokaryotic system.
10026476	The authors conducted a cross-sectional study of 474 rice-granary workers and 235 non-granary worker controls in a rural area near Shanghai, the People's Republic of China. Responses to a respiratory-symptom questionnaire and pre- and post-shift spirometry were obtained for all subjects. Area sampling was performed for total and vertically elutriated (</= 15 micrometer) dust levels. Total dust levels were high, ranging from 6.6 mg/m(3) to 59.8 mg/m(3), with vertical elutriated dust concentrations ranging from 2.0 to 10. 4 mg/m(3). The granary workers reported significantly more respiratory symptoms, including chronic cough, sputum production, chronic bronchitis, grain fever (ODTS), and nasal and skin irritation. Grain dust and tobacco smoking were more than additive for the prevalence of chronic cough and chronic bronchitis. After adjusting for confounders, the granary workers had lower mean FEV&inf1;/FVC values both pre- and post-shift, indicating an association between chronic grain-dust exposure and chronic airway obstruction. The results suggest that exposure to rice dust can induce pulmonary responses similar to those observed with exposures to other types of grains.
10028133	Acute lateral ankle ligament sprains are common in young athletes (15 to 35 years of age). Diagnostic and treatment protocols vary. Therapies range from cast immobilisation or acute surgical repair to functional rehabilitation. The lateral ligament complex includes 3 capsular ligaments: the anterior tibiofibular (ATFL), calcaneofibular (CFL) and posterior talofibular (PTFL) ligaments. Injuries typically occur during plantar flexion and inversion; the ATFL is most commonly torn. The CFL and the PTFL can also be injured and, after severe inversion, subtalar joint ligaments are also affected. Commonly, an athlete with a lateral ankle ligament sprain reports having 'rolled over' the outside of their ankle. The entire ankle and foot must be examined to ensure there are no other injuries. Clinical stability tests for ligamentous disruption include the anterior drawer test of ATFL function and inversion tilt test of both ATFL and CFL function. Radiographs may rule out treatable fractures in severe injuries or when pain or tenderness are not associated with lateral ligaments. Stress radiographs do not affect treatment. Ankle sprains are classified from grades I to III (mild, moderate or severe). Grade I and II injuries recover quickly with nonoperative management. A non-operative 'functional treatment' programme includes immediate use of RICE (rest, ice, compression, elevation), a short period of immobilisation and protection with a tape or bandage, and early range of motion, weight-bearing and neuromuscular training exercises. Proprioceptive training on a tilt board after 3 to 4 weeks helps improve balance and neuromuscular control of the ankle. Treatment for grade III injuries is more controversial. A comprehensive literature evaluation and meta-analysis showed that early functional treatment provided the fastest recovery of ankle mobility and earliest return to work and physical activity without affecting late mechanical stability. Functional treatment was complication-free, whereas surgery had serious, though infrequent, complications. Functional treatment produced no more sequelae than casting with or without surgical repair. Secondary surgical repair, even years after an injury, has results comparable to those of primary repair, so even competitive athletes can receive initial conservative treatment. Sequelae of lateral ligament injuries are common. After conservative or surgical treatment, 10 to 30% of patients have chronic symptoms, including persistent synovitis or tendinitis, ankle stiffness, swelling, pain, muscle weakness and 'giving-way'. Well-designed physical therapy programmes usually reduce instability. For individuals with chronic instability refractory to conservative measures, surgery may be needed. Subtalar instability should be carefully evaluated when considering surgery.
10028655	We investigated the levels of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and their related compounds in blood and sebum from Yusho and Yu-Cheng patients and findings compared with those of normal subjects. Concentrations of these compounds in blood and sebum still were obviously reflected the chemical concentration in the causal rice oil ingested 17 or 26 years since the outbreak. In addition, sebum form the body surface was the most useful sample for monitoring the amount of chemicals contaminating the human body.
1002905
1002944
10030724	An examination on the microbiological quality of seven kinds of Jamu Gendong (JG) and their raw materials has been conducted according to the requirements of microbial contamination in traditional medicine, issued by the Department of Health of Indonesia in 1986. Samples of JG and their raw materials were taken from producers in three districts of Surabaya. The samples were subject to the following examinations: total plate count (TPC), MPN coliform, the enumeration of molds and yeasts, the presence or absence of Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella and Vibrio. Each time the JG samples were taken from different producers together with their raw materials. The results of this investigation showed that most of the JG samples were heavily contaminated with bacteria, yeasts and molds. For bacteria, taken from the TPC results, their numbers were ranging from 7.7 x 10(2) microorganisms/ml to too many to count (TMTC). For yeasts and molds the numbers showed variations from 0 microorganisms/ml to TMTC. Contamination with Coliform in 1 ml of JG were ranged from 0 to > 2.4 x 10(6) microorganisms. In most of the samples pathogenic Staphylococci, Salmonella sp. and Vibrio sp. were not detected, so that a conclusion can be drawn that most of the contamination in JG are saprophytic, only a few pathogenic. The results also show that it is possible to have JG which fulfill the government's requirements. Similar results were obtained with the plant material constituents of JG such as rhizomes, leaves, herbs and fruits of Piper nigrum and Piper retrofractum, with the exception of Piper betle leaves and P. retrofractum fruits, both showing low contamination of Coliform bacteria. However, the fruits of Citrus aurantifolia and Morinda citrifolia were less contaminated, just like seeds of Oryza sativa, Parkia roxburghii, bulbs of Allium sativum and the pulp of Tamarindus indica. With these plant constituents of JG, it might be of interest to screen their antibacterial and antifungal activities.
10036778	The activation of cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) requires phosphorylation of a threonine residue within the T-loop by a CDK-activating kinase (CAK). The R2 protein of rice is very similar to CAKs of animals and fission yeast at the amino acid level but phosphorylation by R2 has not yet been demonstrated. When R2 was overexpressed in a CAK-deficient mutant of budding yeast, it suppressed the temperature sensitivity of the mutation. Immunoprecipitates of rice proteins with the anti-R2 antibody phosphorylated human CDK2, one of the rice CDKs (Cdc2Os1), and the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II of Arabidopsis. Mutational analysis indicated that R2 phosphorylated the threonine residue within the T-loop of CDK2 and Cdc2Os1. R2 was found mainly in two protein complexes which had molecular masses of 190 kDa and 70 kDa, respectively, whilst the CDK- and CTD-kinase activities associated with R2 were identified in a complex of 105 kDa. These results indicate that R2 is closely related to CAKs of animals and fission yeast in terms of its phosphorylation activity and, moreover, that this CAK of rice is distinct from a CAK of the dicotyledonous plant Arabidopsis.
10039940
10043091
10048798	The study aimed to clarify the seasonal fluctuations in energy balance and their factors among rice-growing farmers in Northeast Thailand whose rice production was enough to their food energy demand. Prospective and repeated measurements in the field. A rain-fed rice-farming village. Eight pairs of husband and wife. In each of four periods in a year, anthropometry, energy expenditure survey with heart-rate monitoring and minute-by-minute activity recording, and food consumption survey were conducted for each subject for 4 days. The change of body weight was modest but differed significantly (P < 0.001) between pre-harvest and post-harvest seasons: 1.3 kg (2.3%) for males, 2.5 kg (4.3%) for females. Total energy expenditure (TEE) fluctuated markedly between the 4 seasons (P < 0.001 for males and females), but total energy intake (TEI) fluctuated to lesser extents (P < 0.05 for females only). In relation to energy expenditure, physiological indicators (except respiratory quotient) did not fluctuate throughout the year but behavioral indicators did. The changes in body weight were significantly correlated with the changes in TEE (r = 0.60, P < 0.05 for males; r = 0.83, P < 0.01 for females) but not with the changes in TEI; TEE and TEI were not correlated. The modest seasonal changes in body weight among rain-fed rice farmers in Northeast Thailand were caused by the lack of response of TEI to the change of TEE.
10050028	Sarcotoxin IA is a bactericidal peptide of 39 amino acids found in the common flesh fly, Sarcophaga peregrina. Many agronomically important bacteria in Japan are killed by this peptide at sub-micro molar levels, and the growth of tobacco and rice suspension cultured cells is not inhibited with less than 25 microM. Transgenic tobacco plants which overexpress the peptide, i.e. over 250 pmol per gram of fresh leaf, under the control of a high expression constitutive promoter showed enhanced resistance to the pathogens for wild fire disease (Pseudomonas syringae pv. tabaci) and bacterial soft rot disease (Erwinia carotovora subsp. carotovora).
10050176
10050310	Recent evidence has shown that the prolamine polysomes are attached not only to the endoplasmic reticulum membranes that bound the prolamine protein bodies (PBs) but also to cytoskeleton elements associated with this subcellular fraction. To learn more about the nature of the proteins that are associated with this supra-macromolecular complex, proteins extracted from an enriched cytoskeleton-PB fraction were resolved by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under non-equilibrium conditions and analyzed for their composition by immunological and biochemical methods. Immunoblot analysis indicated the presence of the cytoskeletal proteins, actin and tubulin, and the cytoskeletal-associated protein EF1 alpha in this fraction. Microsequencing of selected polypeptides revealed a diversity of protein sequences. In addition to contaminating storage proteins which are selectively solubilized by the isolation procedure, several ribosomal proteins and histone H3 were also identified. Some of the remaining polypeptides showed partial homology to protein sequences deposited in the database, several of which are cytoskeleton-associated proteins.
10050312	We have isolated a cDNA (RGRC2) encoding glutathione reductase (GR) from rice (Oryza sativa L.). The comparison of deduced amino acid sequences from RGRC2 and other plant GR cDNAs indicated that RGRC2 encodes a putative cytosolic isoform. The recombinant RGRC2 protein had enzymatic properties comparable to those of GR from rice embryo. Subcellular fractionation showed that the RGRC2 protein is localized primarily in cytosol. mRNA and protein of RGRC2 were observed mainly in roots and calli but little in leaf tissues. Southern blot analysis showed that the RGRC2 gene exists as a single copy gene. Here, we have also isolated a genomic clone completely corresponding to RGRC2. The RGRC2 gene is split into 16 exons spread about 7.4 kb of chromosomal DNA, with coding sequence beginning in the 2nd exon and ending in the 16th exon. From the presence of two ABA-responsive elements in the 5'-flanking region of RGRC2, we examined the expression in rice seedlings treated with ABA and the ABA-related environmental stresses, chilling, drought and salinity. The expression of RGRC2 was strongly induced by all these treatments. We suggest that the expression of the rice cytosolic GR gene is regulated via ABA-mediated signal transduction pathway under environmental stresses.
1005365	The composition of the major reserve proteins of rice grain--globulins, prolamines and glutelins--was examined in four rice varieties (Dubovsky 129, Kuban 3, Alakul, Ushtobinsky). Globulins proved to be most heterogeneous whereas glutelins appeared to be least heterogeneous. In regards to the ratio of components globulins showed high variability and glutelins displayed high stability.
10055925
10064051	The Cu status of mature, crossbred ewes fed two sources (CuSO4 vs. Cu proteinate) and three levels (10, 20, or 30 mg/kg) of dietary Cu was determined in a 73-d feeding trial. Ewes (n = 30) were fed a basal diet containing rice meal feed, cottonseed hulls, cottonseed meal, meat and bone meal, cracked corn, and vitamin-mineral supplements at 2.5% of BW to meet NRC requirements for protein, energy, macrominerals, and microminerals, excluding Cu. The basal diet contained 5 mg/kg Cu, 113 mg/kg Fe, .1 mg/kg Mo, and .17% S. Copper sulfate or Cu proteinate was added to the basal diet to supply 10, 20, or 30 mg/kg of dietary copper in a 2x3 factorial arrangement of treatments. Ewes were housed in 3.7- x 9.1-m pens in an open-sided barn. Blood samples were collected on d 28 and 73. Ewes were slaughtered on d 74, and liver and other tissues were collected to determine Cu concentrations. An interaction (P = .08) occurred between source and level for liver Cu. The interaction existed due to an increase in liver Cu concentrations when ewes were fed increasing dietary Cu from CuSO4 but not when fed Cu proteinate diets. There was no source x level interaction (P>.10) for the blood constituents measured. On d 73, plasma ceruloplasmin activity was greater (P<.05) in ewes fed Cu proteinate than in those fed CuSO4 (33.1 vs. 26.8 microM x min(-1) x L(-1)). Increasing the concentration of dietary Cu did not affect (P>.10) plasma ceruloplasmin. Packed cell volume (PCV), red blood cell count (RBC), white blood cell count, whole blood hemoglobin (wHb), plasma hemoglobin, and plasma Cu were similar between sources of Cu. Ewes fed 20 mg/kg Cu had lower (P<.05) PCV, RBC, and wHb than those fed 10 or 30 mg/kg Cu diets. Feeding up to 30 mg/kg Cu from these sources did not cause an observable Cu toxicity during the 73-d period.
10066572	Over the past five years, transgenic strains of various major cereals have been produced, with transformation of rice and maize being most common. A majority of the cereal transformants obtained to date has been generated by the particle bombardment technique, but Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is rapidly becoming the method of choice. Rice, the plant in which transformation-related technology is most advanced, appears to be the model monocotyledon for basic and applied studies.
10066574	The large number of ESTs generated for Arabidopsis and rice in recent years now act as an important complement to whole genome sequencing projects. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative has begun a coordinated effort to sequence the entire genome and, as a result, increasing numbers of large sequence entries can be found in the public databases. In addition, the mitochondrial genome of Arabidopsis has been completely sequenced. Genome sequencing studies and the public sequence databases have begun to influence the direction of diverse areas of research from physiology to evolution.
10066741	We completely sequenced 13,936 nucleotides (nt) of a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) of wild rice (W-dsRNA). A single long open reading frame (13,719 nt) containing the conserved motifs of RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and RNA helicase was located in the coding strand. The identity between entire nucleotide sequence of W-dsRNA and that of the dsRNA of temperate japonica rice (J-dsRNA, 13,952 nt) was 75.5%. A site-specific discontinuity (nick) was identified at nt 1,197 from the 5' end of the coding strand of W-dsRNA. This nick is also located at nt 1,211 from the 5' end in the coding strand of J-dsRNA. The dsRNA copy number was increased more than 10-fold in pollen grains of both rice plants. This remarkable increase may be responsible for the highly efficient transmission of J-dsRNA via pollen that we already reported. J-dsRNA and W-dsRNA were also efficiently transmitted to interspecific F1 hybrids. Seed-mediated dsRNA transmission to F2 plants was also highly efficient when the maternal parent was wild rice. The efficiency of dsRNA transmission to F2 plants was reduced when the maternal parent was temperate japonica rice; however, the reduced rates in F2 plants were returned to high levels in F3 plants.
10068954	Holstein bull calves were used to examine the effect of dry feed on water balance and fecal moisture content during the suckling period. In Experiment 1 (n = 20 calves), free access to concentrate and timothy hay decreased urine volume and increased apparent water retention, fecal water excretion, and fecal moisture content by 2 wk, although daily amounts of milk replacer also affected water balance when DMI from dry feed was low. In Experiment 2 (n = 20 calves), free access to concentrate and hay from wk 1 increased reabsorption of water from renal tubules during wk 2, resulting in reduced urine volume and increased plasma volume. In Experiment 3 (n = 10 calves), supplementation of 500 g/d of milk replacer plus free access to concentrate and hay from wk 1 increased plasma antidiuretic hormone by 2 wk compared with the concentration in calves receiving 200 g/d of milk replacer alone. Plasma antidiuretic hormone concentrations were highly correlated with plasma concentrations of acetate and ketone bodies but not with glucose and urea. In Experiment 4 (n = 16 calves), apparent water retention and fecal moisture content during wk 2 were increased by free access to concentrate from wk 1 but were not affected by rice straw as an inert bulk source.
10069842	Many reports have shown that plant growth and yield is superior on mixtures of NO3- and NH4+ compared with provision of either N source alone. Despite its clear practical importance, the nature of this N-source synergism at the cellular level is poorly understood. In the present study we have used the technique of compartmental analysis by efflux and the radiotracer 13N to measure cellular turnover kinetics, patterns of flux partitioning, and cytosolic pool sizes of both NO3- and NH4+ in seedling roots of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv IR72), supplied simultaneously with the two N sources. We show that plasma membrane fluxes for NH4+, cytosolic NH4+ accumulation, and NH4+ metabolism are enhanced by the presence of NO3-, whereas NO3- fluxes, accumulation, and metabolism are strongly repressed by NH4+. However, net N acquisition and N translocation to the shoot with dual N-source provision are substantially larger than when NO3- or NH4+ is provided alone at identical N concentrations.
10071204	This paper presents the first report on the structure of a 14-kb centromere sequence in a cereal genome that includes 1.9-kb direct repeats. The cereal centromeric sequence (CCS1) conserved in some Gramineae species contains a 17-bp motif similar to the CENP-B box, which serves as the binding site for the centromere-specific protein CENP-B in human. To isolate centromeric units from rice (Oryza sativa L.), we performed PCR using the CENP-B box-like sequences (CBLS) as primers. A 264-bp clone was amplified by this method, and called RCS1516. It appeared to be a novel member of the CCS1 family, sharing about 60% identity with the CCS1 sequences of other cereals. Then, a 14-kb genomic clone, lambda RCB11, carrying the RCS1516 sequence was isolated and sequenced. It was found to contain three copies of a 1.9-kb direct repeat, RCE1, separated by 5.1- and 1.7-kb. A 300-bp sequence at the 3' end of RCE1 is highly conserved in all three copies (>90%) and is almost identical to the RCS1516 sequence including the CBLS motif. The copy number of RCE1 was estimated to range from 10(2) to 10(3) in the haploid genome of rice. Cloned RCE1 units were used for fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis, and signals were observed on almost every primary constriction of rice chromosomes. Thus it was concluded that RCE1 is a significant component of the rice centromere. The lambda RCB11 clone contained at least four A/T-rich regions, which are candidate for matrix attachment regions (MARs), in the sequences between the RCE1 repeats. Other elements that are homologous to the short centromeric repetitive sequences pSau3A9 and pRG5, detected in both sorghum and rice, were also found in the clone.
10071210	The genetic components responsible for qualitative and quantitative resistance of rice plants to three strains (CR4, CXO8, and CR6) of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) were investigated using a set of 315 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from the cross Lemont (japonica) x Teqing (indica) and a complete linkage map with 182 well distributed RFLP markers. We mapped a major gene (Xa4) and ten quantitative trait loci (QTLs) which were largely responsible for segregation of the resistance phenotype in the RILs. The Teqing allele at the Xa4 locus, Xa4T, acted as a dominant resistance gene against CR4 and CXO8. The breakdown of Xa4T-associated resistance mediated by the mutant allele at the avrXa4 locus in the virulent strain CR6 results from significant changes in both gene action (lose of dominance) and the magnitude of gene effect (approximately 50% reduction). Nevertheless, Xa4T still acted as a recessive QTL with a significant residual effect against CR6. The mutant alleles at the avrXa4 locus in CXO8 and CR6 that lead to a reduction in effect, or "breakdown", of Xa4T were apparently accompanied by corresponding penalties for their fitness. The quantitative component of resistance to Xoo in the RILs was largely due to a number of resistance QTLs. Most resistance QTLs mapped to genomic locations where major resistance genes and/or QTLs for resistance to Xoo, blast and sheath blight were identified in the same cross. Most QTLs showed consistent levels of resistance against all three Xoo strains. Our results suggest that a high level of durable resistance to Xoo may be achieved by the cumulative effects of multiple QTLs, including the residual effects of "defeated" major resistance genes.
10071212	During the course of work aimed at isolating a rice gene from Oryza australiensis by PCR, the oligonucleotide primers used were found to generate a fragment that showed sequence homology to the endonuclease (EN) region of the maize non-LTR retrotransposon (LINE) Cin4. We carried out further PCRs using oligonucleotide primers that hybridized to these sequences, and found that they amplified several fragments, each with homology to the EN regions, from Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare as well as O. australiensis. We mapped the approximate locations of two rice LINE homologues by screening clones in a YAC library made from a rice (O. sativa) genome, and found that each homologue was present in a low copy number apparently at nonspecific regions on rice chromosomes. We then carried out PCR using degenerate oligonucleotide primers which hybridized to the rice LINE homologues and Cin4 to ascertain whether LINE homologues are present in a variety of members of the plant kingdom, including angiosperms, gymnosperms, bracken, horsetail and liverwort. Cloning and nucleotide sequencing revealed that 53 clones obtained from 27 out of 33 plant species contained LINE homologues. In addition to these homologues, we identified four homologues with EN regions in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome by a computer search of databases. The nucleotide sequences of almost all the LINE homologues were greatly diverged, but the derived amino acid sequences were well conserved, and all contained glutamic acid and tyrosine residues at almost the same relative positions as in the the active site regions of AP (apurinic/apyrimidinic)-endonucleases. The EN regions in the LINE homologues from closely related plant species show a closer phylogenetic relationship, indicating that sequence divergence during vertical transmission has been a major influence upon the evolution of plant LINEs.
10071216	The gene areA-GF, a homologue of the major nitrogen regulatory genes nit-2, areA, nre and NUT1 of Neurospora crassa, Aspergillus nidulans, Penicillium chrysogenum and Magnaporthe grisea, respectively, was cloned from the gibberellin (GA)-producing rice pathogen Gibberella fujikuroi. areA-GF encodes a protein of 972 amino acid residues which contains a single putative zinc finger DNA-binding domain that is at least 98% identical to the zinc finger domains of the homologous fungal proteins. The areA-GF gene has been shown to be functional in N. crassa by heterologous complementation of a RIP induced nit-2 mutant. The transformation rate was nearly as high as in a homologous complementation control. Transformants were able to utilize nitrate and expressed a normally regulated nitrate reductase activity. To generate areA-GF- mutants, gene replacement experiments were performed using a linearized replacement vector carrying the hygromycin B phosphotransferase (hph) gene. The replacement of the zinc finger by the hygromycin cassette resulted in transformants which were unable to utilize nitrogen sources other than ammonium and glutamine, and gave significantly reduced gibberellin production yields. Complementation of such a mutant with the wild-type gene led to the full recovery of gibberellin production.
10071225	Map-based DNA fingerprinting with AFLP markers provides a fast method for scanning the rice genome. Three hundred AFLP markers identified with ten primer combinations were mapped in two rice populations. The genetic maps were aligned and almost full coverage of the rice genome was obtained. The transferability of AFLP markers between indica x japonica and indica x indica crosses was tested. The chromosomes were divided into DNA Fingerprint Linkage Blocks (DFLBs) defined by specific AFLP markers. Using these blocks, the degree of similarity or divergence within specific chromosome regions was calculated for nine varieties. Applications of map-based fingerprinting for biodiversity studies and maker-assisted selection are discussed.
10071498	Leptotrombidium (Leptotrombidium) imphalum Vercammen-Grandjean & Langston is redescribed and illustrated. Specimens were collected from the rodents Rattus rattus, Rattus losea, and Bandicota indica in Chiangrai Province, northern Thailand. The species was found on hosts collected on dikes at the margins of rice fields and in adjacent fruit plantations and along irrigation canals, especially in areas covered with the grasses Imperata cylindrica (lalang grass) and Saccharum arudinaceum. The etiological agent of scrub typhus, Orientia (formerly Rickettsia) tsutsugamushi has been isolated from L. (L.) imphalum, rodent hosts, and patients who live and work in the same habitats.
10072265	Hurricane Georges struck the Carribean Islands in September 1998, causing numerous deaths and extensive damage throughout the region. The Dominican Republic was hardest hit, with approximately 300 deaths; extensive infrastructure damage; and severe agricultural losses, including staple crops of rice, plantain, and cassava. Two months after the hurricane, the American Red Cross (ARC) was asked to provide food to an estimated 170,000 families affected by the storm throughout the country. To assist in directing relief efforts, CDC performed a needs assessment to estimate the food and water availability, sanitation, and medical needs of the hurricane-affected population. This report summarizes the results of that assessment, which indicate that, 2 months after the disaster, 40% of selected families had insufficient food > or =5 days per and 28% of families reported someone in need of medical attention.
10077428	The molecular mechanism of light signal perception was analyzed using stem sections of etiolated rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings irradiated with red light from a fluorescent lamp. The membrane and cytosol fractions were labeled by 40 nM [gamma-32P]ATP for 10 s at 0 degrees C and proteins were separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Phosphorylation of three proteins with molecular weights of 16, 17 and 18 kDa in the rice increased with the intensity of red light irradiation (50 micromol/m2/s) for 16 min. Most of the phosphorylation activity was present in the cytosol fraction. The three proteins cross-reacted with the anti-nucleoside diphosphate (NDP) kinase antibody. Phosphorylation of these proteins was correlated with changes in the activity of NDP kinase. These proteins phosphorylated histone III-S, a substrate for measuring the protein kinase activity. By phospho-amino acid analysis, phosphoserine was found present in the phosphorylated proteins. These rapidly phosphorylated proteins would thus appear to have the features of NDP kinase.
10077875	This survey was conducted to examine the extent of the exposure of Bangkok citizens to lead (Pb) and cadmium (Cd), and to evaluate the role of rice as the source of these heavy metals. In practice, 52 non-smoking adult women in an institution in the vicinity of Bangkok, volunteered to offer blood, spot urine, boiled rice and 24-h total food duplicate samples. Samples were wet-ashed, and then analyzed for Pb and Cd by ICP-MS. Geometric means for the levels in blood (Pb-B and Cd-B) and urine (Pb-U and Cd-U as corrected for creatinine concentration), and also for dietary intake (Pb-F and Cd-F) were 32.3 micrograms/l for Pb-B, 0.41 microgram/l for Cd-B, 2.06 micrograms/g creatinine for Pb-U, 1.40 micrograms/g creatinine for Cd-U, 15.1 micrograms/day for Pb-F and 7.1 micrograms/day for Cd-F. Rice contributed 30% and 4% of dietary Cd and Pb burden, respectively. When compared with the counterpart values obtained in four neighboring cities in southeast Asia (i.e. Nanning, Tainan, Manila, and Kuala Lumpur), dietary Pb burden of the women in Bangkok was middle in the order among the values for the five cities. Pb level in the blood was the lowest of the levels among the five cities and Pb in urine was also among the low group. This apparent discrepancy in the order between Pb-B (i.e. the fifth) and Pb-F (the third) might be attributable to recent reduction of Pb levels in the atmosphere in Bangkok. Regarding Cd exposure, Cd levels in blood and urine as well as dietary Cd burden of Bangkok women were either the lowest or the next lowest among those in the five cities.
10079465	The rate of starch hydrolysis in ten cereal-based food preparations was studied using an in vitro dialysis system. The foods were incubated with human saliva and porcine pancreatin. The sugars released after 3 h digestion were expressed as digestibility index (DI), the percentage starch digested was determined and correlated with the degree of gelatinization (DG). Granule morphology was also investigated and related with starch availability for hydrolysis. Significant differences were observed in the in vitro starch digestibility of the 10 foods (P < 0.05). The DI ranged from 53 for chapathi to 78 for rice flakes. DI was inversely related to the protein (r = -0.79, P < 0.01), fat (r = -0.63, P < 0.05) and energy (r = -0.61, P < 0.01). Percent starch digested was inversely related to the insoluble (r = -0.49, P < 0.05) and total dietary fiber (r = -0.63, P < 0.01) content of the foods. The SEM results provided a better understanding of granular morphology on cooking and the effect of protein on limiting DG. The results suggest that carbohydrate foods of potential use in the therapeutic diets may be identified by their in vitro digestion characteristics.
10080693	For identification of genes involved in embryogenesis in the model cereal rice, we have constructed a collection of cDNA libraries of well-defined stages of embryo development before, during and after organ differentiation. Here, we focus on the possible role of KNOX (maize Knotted1-like) class homeobox genes in regulation of rice embryogenesis. Three types of KNOX clones were identified in libraries of early zygotic embryos. Two of these, Oskn2 and Oskn3, encode newly described KNOX genes, whereas the third (Oskn1) corresponds to the previously described OSH1 gene. In situ hybridizations showed that during the early stages of embryo development, all three KNOX genes are expressed in the region where the shoot apical meristem (SAM) is organizing, suggesting that these genes are involved in regulating SAM formation. Whereas OSH1 was previously proposed to function also in SAM maintenance, Oskn3 may be involved in patterning organ positions, as its expression was found to mark the boundaries of different embryonic organs following SAM formation. The expression pattern of Oskn2 suggested an additional role in scutellum and epiblast development. Transgenic expression of Oskn2 and Oskn3 in tobacco further supported their involvement in cell fate determination, like previously reported for Knotted1 and OSH1 ectopic expression. Whereas Oskn3 transformants showed the most pronounced phenotypic effects during vegetative development, Oskn2 transformants showed relatively mild alterations in the vegetative phase but a more severely affected flower morphology. The observation that the KNOX genes produce similar though distinct phenotypic reponses in tobacco, indicates that their gene products act on overlapping but different sets of target genes, or that cell-type specific factors determine their precise action.
10080713	To understand the molecular mechanism of gibberellin-dependent gene regulation, the effect of three phosphatase inhibitors on the germination of rice seeds and the expression of a target gene, the alpha-amylase gene, Osamy-c, were measured. We found that okadaic acid, microcystin-LR, and calyculin A, which are known to specifically inhibit Ser/Thr phosphatases 1 and 2A, strongly inhibit the expression of the Osamy-c and may be involved in the germination of rice seeds. The protein phosphatase enzyme activity assays showed that there is no obvious effect of GA3 on total PP1/PP2A activities. To further understand the possible role of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A in the GA-dependent expression of Osamy-c, we isolated cDNA clones encoding protein phosphatase 1 and protein phosphatase 2A from a rice aleurone cDNA library. These were designated OsPP1c and OsPP2Ac, respectively. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of OsPP1c and OsPP2Ac with the catalytic subunits of PP1 or PP2A of rabbit skeletal muscle, Arabidopsis thaliana, maize and Brassica napus showed that the catalytic subunit sequences of PP1 or PP2A among these organisms are highly conserved (73% to 90% similarity). Genomic Southern blot analysis indicated that there are only one or two copies of OsPP1c genes and more than two copies of OsPP2Ac genes in the rice genome. Northern blot analysis showed that OsPP1c and OsPP2Ac genes are expressed in several organs of rice, including seed, shoot and root. We also showed by using 3' gene-specific probes of OsPP1c and OsPP2Ac cDNA, that the expression of neither gene is regulated by GA. Taken together, our results suggest that protein phosphatases PP1 or PP2A are involved in the GA-dependent expression of the rice Osamy-c gene, though the PP1 or/and PP2A enzymatic activities as well as mRNA levels do not increase upon GA3 treatment.
10080717	A cDNA clone encoding alanine aminotransferase (AlaAT) has isolated from randomly sequenced clones derived from a cDNA library of maturing rice seeds by comparison to previously identified genes. The deduced amino acid sequence was 88% and 91% homologous to those of the enzymes from barley and broomcorn millet (Panicum miliaceum), respectively. Using this cDNA as a probe, we isolated and sequenced the corresponding genomic clone. Comparison of the sequences of the cDNA and the genomic gene revealed that the coding region of the gene was interrupted by 14 introns 66 to 1547 bp long. Northern and western blotting analyses showed that the gene was expressed at high levels in developing seeds. When the 5'-flanking region between -930 and +85 from the site of initiation of transcription was fused to a reporter gene for beta-glucuronidase (GUS) and then introduced into the rice genome, histochemical staining revealed strong GUS activity in the inner endosperm tissue of developing seeds and weak activity in root tips. Similar tissue-specific expression was also detected by in situ hybridization. These results suggest that AlaAT is involved in nitrogen metabolism during the maturation of rice seed.
10080972
10080978
10080999
10081798	After conducting a preliminary survey, a feeding trial was carried out to determine the effect of urea-molasses-multinutrient block (UMMB) and urea-treated rice straw (UTRS) as a feed supplement on the productivity of dairy cows. Sixty Holstein-Friesian crossbred cows on 11 smallholder farms were divided equally into control, UMMB and UTRS supplementation groups. Milk yield and feed intake were recorded daily. Milk fat content, body weight and body condition score (BSC) of each cow were determined at two week intervals. Milk samples for progesterone analysis were collected once a week commencing one month after parturition. Data were recorded for date of onset of ovarian activity, estrus, insemination, and conception rate. Milk production increased by 10.3-11.9% and milk fat content increased by 3-5%, therefore, profit for farmers increased by US $0.55-0.73 per cow per day (exchange rate US $1 = VN $11,000). The intervals from calving to onset of ovarian activity (91-94 days), to estrus (110-114 days), to conception (121-122 days) and the calving interval (13.4-13.6 months) in the trial groups were significantly shorter than those in the control group (112, 135, 152 days and 14.4 months, respectively.
1008250
10085681	Sexual partners harbour often identical yeast strains in the vagina, orointestinal tract and sperm in cases of recurrent vulvovaginal candidoses. Mycologic cultures from the vagina, mouth and stool of the patient and from the mouth and sperm of her partner were cultured on Sabouraud-Glucose-Agar and, if positive, specified by Candida ID-Agar (Biomerieux), rice agar and the system Walk away (Dade). Equal species were compared by DNR-fingerprinting using PCR. The vagina of 22 women was in 21 cases infected by Candida albicans and in one case by Candida glabrata. The culture of mouth or stool of 18 women was in 11 cases identical with those of the vagina. In 13 cases of 18 sexual male partners Candida albicans was found being identical with the strain of the female partner in 8 cases. 4 of the identical strains were grown from the sperm. Future prospective investigations shall prove whether a consequent treatment of both partners to eradicate all identical yeasts is able to improve the treatment results in such women.
10088661	Rice gruels have been used as home remedies to treat dehydration associated with diarrheal illness in developing countries. These preparations have produced conflicting results, most likely due to the heterogeneity of starch used. We investigated whether the modified tapioca starch, Textra (TX), at 5.0 or 10.0 g/L added to a 90 mmol/L Na+-111 mmol glucose oral rehydration solution (ORS) enhanced water and electrolyte absorption in two models of diarrhea. To induce a secretory state (model A), the jejunum of juvenile rats was perfused with 10 mmol/L theophylline (THEO) under anesthesia and then perfused with the solutions indicated above. To produce chronic osmotic-secretory diarrhea (model B), rats had a magnesium citrate-phenolphthalein solution as the sole fluid source for 1 wk, and then were perfused as the THEO-treated rats. Water, electrolyte, and glucose absorption were measured during both perfusions. As an extension of the perfusion studies, we compared how fast rats recovered from chronic osmotic diarrhea by offering them either water, ORS, or ORS containing 5.0 g/L TX along with solid food. Recovery rate markers were measured after 24 h and included weight gain, food and fluid intake, and stool output. In model A, addition of 5.0 g/L TX to ORS reversed Na+ secretion and improved net water as well as K+ and glucose absorption, compared with THEO-treated rats perfused with ORS without TX. In model B, addition of TX to ORS increased water, Na+, K+, and glucose absorption, compared with rats perfused without TX. Increasing TX from 5.0 to 10.0 g/L had no additional benefit. In recovery experiments, animals with free access to ORS with TX had significantly greater weight gain and decreased stool output compared with animals recovering with water or ORS without TX. Our experiments suggest that TX may be a useful additive to standard ORS to promote fluid and electrolyte absorption and may provide additional energy without increasing ORS osmotic load.
10090544	Following the successful rehydration of two moderately dehydrated patients with transient glucose intolerance (TGI) using rice-oral rehydration solution (R-ORS), R-ORS has been used in Hacettepe University Ihsan Dogramaci Children's Hospital Diarrhea Training and Treatment Unit (DTTU) to rehydrate moderately dehydrated children with TGI. The files of children with moderate dehydration and glucose intolerance admitted to the unit were reviewed retrospectively within two periods according to the availability of R-ORS. The clinical and laboratory findings were analysed where available. Before R-ORS became available (September 1993) 6 patients were admitted, all of whom deteriorated with glucose (G)-ORS treatment in 7.0 +/- 3.8 h and were hospitalized for i.v. fluid treatment. During the second period 22 moderately dehydrated children with TGI were admitted. The clinical and laboratory characteristics on admission of the children in the two periods were not statistically different (p > 0.05). Among the 22 patients admitted during the second period 10 were administered G-ORS in the unit and 12 had already received G-ORS at home. Clinical and laboratory deterioration was observed in these 10 patients while receiving G-ORS in the unit within 6.3 +/- 3.7 h and rehydration was continued with R-ORS. Clinical and laboratory improvement were demonstrated in 8 patients within 18.2 +/- 6.5 h. Overall, 17 patients were rehydrated successfully with R-ORS, with a mean time of 18.0 +/- 7.2 h. Five patients were hospitalized. The overall success rate of R-ORS was 77.3%. R-ORS may be considered as an alternative mode of therapy to i.v. treatment in the rehydration of moderately dehydrated children with TGI.
1009067	1. The excretion of urinary and faecal nitrogen by young Nigerian men of a low income group was found to vary significantly between subjects, but was not significantly different in the same subject, when they were given a mixed diet composed of rice, vegetables and fish on two separate occasions. At the levels of energy and protein supplied by this diet the men gained or lost small amounts of weight, mean values indicating N equilibrium, the variation around the mean being high. 2. The correlation between the urinary and faecal N of these men was significantly negative at and below the level of N equilibrium, becoming positive 2-3 weeks after they had consumed the above diet supplemented by 400 g of lean beef per day, and had already established considerable rates of gain in body-weight and N retention. The diets were made isoenergetic by adding the beef at the expense of cassava flour and red palm oil. 3. The physiological processes involved in the adaptation, by young Nigerian men of low income, to a highly efficient use of low-protein diets are discussed in relation to the biological value and true digestibility of those diets, and to the 'safe level of protein intake' and protein-energy ratios proposed by FAO/WHO (1973, 1975). 4. It is concluded that the protein requirements of apparently healthy men can only be established in the context of their ecological, socio-economic and nutritional backgrounds.
10091042	Diet and gastric cancer mortality in Portugal was studied using a multivariate ecological model. The factors investigated over 18 districts were the relationship between gastric cancer mortality (1994-96), dietary habits, and socio-economic factors (1980-81). Mortality geographical pattern was established using age-standardized mortality rates, per capita dietary consumption of foodstuffs and nutrients was obtained from the National Alimentary Survey (1980-81), and data on socio-economic factors from the 1981 National Census. Pearson correlation coefficients and simple and multiple linear regression models were used. The mortality geographical pattern resembled a north-south gradient, and dietary habits and socio-economic factors had great variability throughout the country. The highest negative correlation coefficients between dietary consumption and gastric cancer mortality were obtained for vegetables, fruit, vitamin A and carotene consumption, and the highest positive coefficients were for rice, wine and carbohydrate consumption. No significant correlations were obtained for socio-economic factors. In multiple regression analysis, vegetable and rice consumption could account for 79% of the gastric cancer mortality variability for males, and vegetable and meat consumption could account for 69% of this variability for females. Interestingly, meat consumption was found to be protective. A mean increase of 100 g/person/day in vegetable consumption would imply a mean predicted decrease of 10 (95% CI 6-14) and 5 (95% CI 3-7) gastric cancer deaths per 100,000 persons/year, for males and females respectively, in simple regression analysis. Such a decrease represents about one-third of the mean national gastric cancer mortality rate. Therefore, an increase in vegetable consumption is strongly recommended.
10092854	Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was used to determine the three dimensional structure of rice nonspecific lipid transfer protein (ns-LTP), a 91 amino acid residue protein belonging to the broad family of plant ns-LTP. Sequence specific assignment was obtained for all but three HN backbone 1H resonances and for more than 95% of the 1H side-chain resonances using a combination of 1H 2D NOESY; TOCSY and COSY experiments at 293 K. The structure was calculated on the basis of four disulfide bridge restraints, 1259 distance constraints derived from 1H-1H Overhauser effects, 72 phi angle restraints and 32 hydrogen-bond restraints. The final solution structure involves four helices (H1: Cys3-Arg18, H2: Ala25-Ala37, H3: Thr41-Ala54 and H4: Ala66-Cys73) followed by a long C-terminal tail (T) with no observable regular structure. N-capping residues (Thr2, Ser24, Thr40), whose side-chain oxygen atoms are involved in hydrogen bonds with i + 3 amide proton additionally stabilize the N termini of the first three helices. The fourth helix involving Pro residues display a mixture of alpha and 3(10) conformation. The rms deviation of 14 final structures with respect to the average structure is 1.14 +/- 0.16 A for all heavy atoms (C, N, O and S) and 0.72 +/- 0.01 A for the backbone atoms. The global fold of rice ns-LTP is close to the previously published structures of wheat, barley and maize ns-LTPs exhibiting nearly identical pattern of the numerous sequence specific interactions. As reported previously for different four-helix topology proteins, hydrophobic, hydrogen bonding and electrostatic mechanisms of fold stabilization were found for the rice ns-LTP. The sequential alignment of 36 ns-LTP primary structures strongly suggests that there is a uniform pattern of specific long-range interactions (in terms of sequence), which stabilize the fold of all plant ns-LTPs.
10092937	Supplementation of semi-solid R2 culture medium with a commercial bovine haemoglobin (Hb) solution (Erythrogen) at 1:50-1:500 (v:v), had beneficial effects on the growth, following cryopreservation, of cells of the Indica rice, Oryza sativa cv. Pusa Basmati 1. The mean absorbance, as assessed by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride reduction, of rice cells at 8 d post-thawing, was increased by up to 60% (P < 0.05), compared to cells recovered in the absence of Hb. Erythrogen (1:50-1:500 v:v) promoted an increase in biomass, of up to 25% over control (P < 0.05), at 24 d post-thawing. Cell suspensions, re-established by transfer to liquid medium of cells initially thawed and cultured with Erythrogen for 24 d, exhibited increased (up to 2-fold) growth rates over a subsequent 20-d period, compared to cells recovered without Hb.
10095070	We isolated four novel cDNA clones of rice (Oryza sativa L.), which encode predicted proteins with a KN1-like homeodomain. In situ hybridization and RT-PCR analysis with solid cDNA libraries as templates showed that these genes are expressed in distinct patterns during the early stages of rice embryogenesis.
10095115	Four cDNA clones, rcs1, rcs2, rcs3 and rcs4, encoding cysteine synthase [O-acetylserine(thiol)lyase] were isolated from rice. The predicted amino acid sequences contain the conserved PXXSVKDR region characteristic of cysteine synthase, which includes the lysine residue that binds the cofactor, pyridoxal 5'-phosphate. Molecular phylogenic analysis suggests that, whereas rcs1 and rcs3 belong to the cytosolic isoform family, rcs2 and rcs4 form a new family of cysteine synthase. Transcript accumulation of each gene was examined for organ specificity, and also for response to sulfur, nitrogen and light. The rcs1 transcript accumulated in all organs examined, and was induced in shoots and roots upon sulfur starvation under non-limiting nitrogen conditions. The rcs2 transcript accumulated in shoots grown in the light, but disappeared almost completely by dark treatment. The rcs3 transcript was found more abundantly in roots than in shoots, and was reduced in the dark, as well as under sulfur and nitrogen deprivation. The rcs4 transcript was scarce in all organs examined. These observations indicate that cysteine synthase genes encode functionally distinct cysteine synthase isoforms, and that they are coordinately regulated by the availability of sulfur, nitrogen, and light.
10095931	This paper reports the preparation and identification of two monoclonal antibodies against FTB, and the establishment of an indirect competitive ELISA methods for FTB determination in buckwheat, rice, and corn. Two of the hybridoma cell lines (1C9 and 2D10), which could produce specific antibodies against fumitremorgin B(FTB), were selected and developed. The affinity Kaff constants of the monoclonal antibodies with the coating antigen, FTBS-IgG, were found to be 6 x 10(8) M-1 and 9.8 x 10 M-1, respectively. The isotypes of the monoclonal antibodies are of two isotypes, IgG1 and IgM, respectively. The antibody titers were found around 1 x 10(6) and 1.5 x 10(6). The standard curves showed that as little as 5 pg of FTB in 50 mL could be detected, and the linear range of standard curve was from 10 pg to 1000 pg of standard FTB. There were no cross-reaction for McAbs in the assay system with some mycotoxins tested. The mean recovery rate from buckwheat spiked with 10-60 ng/g of FTB was 78-88.7%.
10096297	To improve the iron content of rice, we have transferred the entire coding sequence of the soybean ferritin gene into Oryza sativa (L. cv. Kita-ake) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The rice seed-storage protein glutelin promoter, GluB-1, was used to drive expression of the soybean gene specifically in developing, self-pollinated seeds (T1 seeds) of transgenic plants, as confirmed by reverse transcription PCR analysis. Stable accumulation of the ferritin subunit in the rice seed was demonstrated by western blot analysis, and its specific accumulation in the endosperm by immunologic tissue printing. The iron content of T1 seeds was as much as threefold greater than that of their untransformed counterparts.
10097385	In rice, silencing of the aleurone-specific Ltp2-gus transgene, causing easily detectable staining patterns on the grain surface, offers a convenient tool to study quantitative aspects of gene silencing in monocots. In this paper we analyzed phenotypes, occurrence, inheritance and environmental effects on the silencing. We also report on the cloning of transgenes, determination of their structure and analysis of transcripts from the transgene loci. The results show that various patterns of silencing appeared in the R2 generation at which most of the transgenes became homozygous and that they were inherited for five generations. In addition, silencing independently occurred in three generations and reversion to full expression was also found. Cloning of transgenes from a silenced L3.3 line demonstrated that this line carried two transgene loci: one carried an intact Ltp2-gus gene and the other carried a rearranged transgene in which part of the gus gene was in the antisense orientation. Analysis of gus transcripts indicated that partial antisense RNA derived from the rearranged transgene was present in silenced lines and was polyadenylated but that it was absent in non-silenced lines. RNA analyses suggested that the Ltp2-gus silencing in the aleurone layer was post-transcriptional and that it may be caused by interaction of partial antisense gus transcripts with normal sense transcripts. Possible involvement of antisense transcripts in post-transcriptional silencing is discussed.
10099350	A cyclic fed-batch bioprocess is designed and a significant improvement of rice alpha-amylase productivity of recombinant Yarrowia lipolytica is illustrated. A bioprocess control strategy developed and reported here entails use of a genetically stable recombinant cloned for heterologous protein, use of optimized media for cell growth and enzyme production phases, and process control strategy enabling high cell-density culture and high alpha-amylase productivity. This process control can be achieved through maintaining a constant optimal specific cell growth rate at a predetermined value (i.e., 0.1 h-1), controlling medium feed rate commensurate with the cell growth rate, and maintaining a high cell-density culture (i.e., 60-70 g/L) for high productivity of cloned heterologous protein. The volumetric enzyme productivity (1, 960 units/L. h) achieved from the cyclic fed-batch process was about 3-fold higher than that of the fed-batch culture process (630 units/L. h).
10100902	Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) isolated from raw materials (fish, rice, garlic and banana leaves) and processed som-fak (a Thai low-salt fermented fish product) were characterized by API 50-CH and other phenotypic criteria. Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis and Leuconostoc citreum were specifically associated with fish fillet and minced fish, Lactobacillus paracasei subsp. paracasei with boiled rice and Weisella confusa with garlic mix and banana leaves. In addition, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus pentosus and Pediococcus pentosaceus were isolated from raw materials. A succession of aciduric, homofermentative lactobacillus species, dominated by Lb. plantarum/pentosus, was found during fermentation. In total, 9% of the strains fermented starch and 19% fermented garlic, the two main carbohydrate components in som-fak. The ability to ferment garlic was paralleled by a capacity to ferment inulin. An increased percentage of garlic fermenting strains was found during fermentation of som-fak, from 8% at day 1 to 40% at day 5. No starch fermenting strains were isolated during fermentation. Three mixed LAB cultures, composed of either starch fermenting Lc. lactis subsp. lactis and Lb. paracasei subsp. paracasei, or garlic fermenting Lb. plantarum and Pd. pentosaceus, or a combination of these strains were inoculated into laboratory prepared som-fak with or without garlic. In som-fak without garlic, pH was above 4.8 after three days, irrespective of addition of mixed LAB cultures. The starch fermenting LAB were unable to ferment som-fak and sensory spoilage occurred after three days. Fermentation with the combined mix of starch and garlic fermenting strains led to production of 2.5% acid and a decrease in pH to 4.5 in two days. The fermentation was slightly slower with the garlic fermenting strains alone. This is the first report describing the role of garlic as carbohydrate source for LAB in fermented fish products.
10100948	The thermogenesis curves of the germination of different rice and tree seeds were determined and studied by using a newly constructed microcalorimeter. The thermogenesis curves of the germination of the seeds demonstrate the existence of physiological triphasic patterns, which include imbibition, activation and growth stages in the germination process. The thermodynamics and thermokinetics of the main growth phase of the growth stage in the germination process have been studied. The growth heat effect (deltaH), the growth rate constant (k), the growth inhibitory factor (s) and deceleration rate constant (beta) have been determined and calculated, In addition, the experimental thermokinetic equations of the growth stage in the seed germination process have been established.
10103241	As 16S rRNA sequence analysis has proven inadequate for the differentiation of Bacillus cereus from closely related species, we employed the gyrase B gene (gyrB) as a molecular diagnostic marker. The gyrB genes of B. cereus JCM 2152(T), Bacillus thuringiensis IAM 12077(T), Bacillus mycoides ATCC 6462(T), and Bacillus anthracis Pasteur #2H were cloned and sequenced. Oligonucleotide PCR primer sets were designed from within gyrB sequences of the respective bacteria for the specific amplification and differentiation of B. cereus, B. thuringiensis, and B. anthracis. The results from the amplification of gyrB sequences correlated well with results obtained with the 16S rDNA-based hybridization study but not with the results of their phenotypic characterization. Some of the reference strains of both B. cereus (three serovars) and B. thuringiensis (two serovars) were not positive in PCR amplification assays with gyrB primers. However, complete sequencing of 1.2-kb gyrB fragments of these reference strains showed that these serovars had, in fact, lower homology than their originally designated species. We developed and tested a procedure for the specific detection of the target organism in boiled rice that entailed 15 h of preenrichment followed by PCR amplification of the B. cereus-specific fragment. This method enabled us to detect an initial inoculum of 0.24 CFU of B. cereus cells per g of boiled rice food homogenate without extracting DNA. However, a simple two-step filtration step is required to remove PCR inhibitory substances.
10103334	To evaluate the potential benefit of dietary supplementation of a rice-lentil (Khitchri) and yogurt diet with 3 mg/kg/d of elemental zinc (as zinc sulfate) in hospitalized malnourished children (age 6-36 months) with persistent diarrhea for 14 days. Randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Nutrition Research Ward at the National Institute of Child Health, Karachi, Pakistan, where children were admitted for 14 days of inpatient supervised rehabilitation. overall weight gain by day 14. overall energy intake, stool output, time to diarrheal recovery and weight gain (>/=3 days), plasma zinc, copper, prealbumin, and insulin-like growth factor-1. Of 87 children randomized for supplementation with either zinc or placebo, the two groups were comparable at admission in terms of severity and duration of diarrhea, as well as nutritional and anthropometric parameters. The overall weight gain, stool volume, stool frequency, as well as the time taken for diarrheal recovery or steady weight gain, were comparable for both supplemented children and controls. Supplemented children had a significant improvement in plasma zinc levels and serum alkaline phosphatase by day 14 of therapy in comparison with controls. Plasma copper levels were low in both groups at admission and although an increase was seen in control children, levels decreased further after zinc supplementation. There was no significant difference between the two groups for hemoglobin, serum albumin, prealbumin, and plasma insulin-like growth factor-1 increments during the course of therapy. Evaluation of primary and secondary outcome criteria among the subset of children with plasma zinc levels <60 microg/d at admission did not reveal any significant differences. Although there was satisfactory recovery in malnourished children with persistent diarrhea receiving the Khitchri-yogurt diet, there was no evidence of improved weight gain or acceleration of recovery from diarrhea with zinc supplementation. In contrast, the reduction in plasma copper levels in zinc-supplemented malnourished children suggests that caution should be exercised in supplementing severely malnourished children with zinc alone.
1010569
1010575
1011252	When two separate and independent organizations must work together to accomplish a mutual task, difficulties often arise which remain poorly understood. The analysis of intergroup phenomena involves an exploration of interaction within and between groups; such relationships include problems arising from differences in tasks, structure, and culture of the two groups, definition of the intergroup task, choice of group representatives, and the possibilities and problems of dual group membership for the negotiators. While the literatures on group process and organization development contain some work on intergroup phenomena (e.g., Aldrich, 1971; Baker and O'Brien, 1971; Klein et al., 1971; Mills, 1975; Walton, 1972), much conceptual work remains to be done. We will focus upon one type of intergroup relationship--that between a traditional human service organization and a social movement group--in which dual membership is a particular problem, and in which conflict may be neutralized by the form of the negotiations. A case example of an interaction between a mental health center and a women's liberation group will provide one example of such negotiations. The analysis is presented within the framework of the open system model of Miller and Rice (1967) and Ric's general model of intergroup relations (1965, 1969).
10123448	Like many medical groups, J. Frederick Rice's had no formal method of evaluating the performance of the investment manager employed to manage the benefits plan. Rice, FACMGA, in his case study, describes how his group set formal, written goals as a means of measuring performance.
10123618
10124211	Under the leadership of internist Howard Dean, the nation's only physician-governor, Vermont is adopting a comprehensive health-care plan that will revolutionize the way the state's doctors practice medicine. As Vermont goes, so may the nation, for Dean is one of the key advisers to the Clinton administration on health-care reform. But if the Vermont plan serves as a model for the rest of the country, many doctors may find it a better pill to swallow. Among other things, it could mean that nearly all the state's physicians will, in effect, participate in a state-run HMO and be subject to global fees and budgets that will also cover hospitals (see opposite page). While the plan's specific provisions are still being debated, Dean's views have spread to other states and to the Clinton administration through his role as co-chairman of the National Governor's Association task force on health care. In a recent interview with Senior Associate Editor Berkeley Rice in the governor's office in Montpelier, Dean discussed Vermont's new health plan, its importance as a model for other states, and his unique perspective as physician-governor.
10127779	According to traditional welfare analysis, consumers facing a price increase forego consumption of the least valued units of a commodity. Studies, such as the Rand HIE, show that patients decrease their consumption of all types of health care when faced with a price increase for health care. From this observation, Thomas Rice (1992) concludes that traditional welfare analysis is inadequate for evaluating insurance-related welfare losses in health care. In this note, I argue that it is not traditional welfare analysis which is inadequate, but the method of assigning marginal valuations to units of health care.
10150156	We review the pathophysiology of intestinal water and electrolyte transport leading to diarrhoea, the currently available pharmacological strategies for its treatment, and the economic implications of such treatments. Diarrhoea occurs most frequently and is associated with highest mortality in children under 5. Oral rehydration therapy (ORT) is the cornerstone of its management. The safety and efficacy of ORT in the prevention of death from dehydration, both in field and also in hospital settings, are now well established. Because it is also inexpensive, ORT is widely applicable worldwide. More recently, rice-based ORT has emerged, based on well known traditional remedies for diarrhoea in southeast Asia and the Far East. Rice-based ORT has the advantage of being more culturally acceptable, readily available even in rural homes in developing countries, and is more effective in reducing stool output and the duration of diarrhoea, compared with conventional glucose-electrolyte solutions such as World Health Organization ORT. For infants, the well known antidiarrhoeal properties of human milk needs emphasis for a variety of reasons including economic ones. Data concerning the economic benefits to a nations' health budget as a result of nationwide implementation of oral rehydration solution (ORS) use are limited. Available data from individual centres in developing countries, if projected to national level, would incur considerable economic advantage. Except for a few notable infections such as shigellosis, cholera, amoebiasis and giardiasis, the widespread use of antibiotics in acute diarrhoea, still a common practice in many developing countries, has no proven value and may be detrimental. The economic implications of antibiotic abuse in the treatment of diarrhoea in developing countries is enormous. Despite the availability of a wide spectrum of pharmacological agents for diarrhoea reviewed in this article, only a few such agents are of proven clinical efficacy: corticosteroids, aminosalicylates and immunosuppressants in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease and opioid derivatives such as loperamide which may be useful in protracted diarrhoea in children and in disorders where rapid gastrointestinal transit is the main cause of diarrhoea. Opioids are not recommended for acute infective diarrhoea in childhood. Octreotide, a somatostatin analogue, is reported to be useful in the treatment of secretory diarrhoea due to noninfective causes and in the treatment of intractable diarrhoea associated with AIDS. Its high cost and need for parenteral administration prevent its wider application.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
10156825
10163054
10166103	During 1980-1990 BRAC, a Bangladeshi non-governmental organization, taught over 12 million mothers how to prepare oral rehydration therapy (ORT) at home with lobon (common salt) and gur (unrefined brown sugar). This was followed by a strong promotion and distribution of prepackaged ORS by various agencies including the government. In 1993 we assessed knowledge of ORT preparation, its local availability and its use for the management of diarrhoea. Over 9000 households in 90 villages were revisited; 306 government outreach health workers, 296 drug sellers, and 237 village doctors were interviewed; 152 government facilities and 495 pharmacies/shops were visited. ORT prepared by mothers in a sub-sample of the households was analyzed for chloride content and interviewers collected information on use of ORT for diarrhoeal episodes occurring in the preceding two weeks. The data quality was assessed through a resurvey of sample respondents within two weeks of the first interview. Over 70% of the mothers could prepare a chemically 'safe and effective' ORS. A significant proportion of these mothers were very young at the time of the mass campaigns using house to house teaching, implying an intergenerational transfer of the knowledge on ORT. ORT was found to be used in 60% of all diarrhoeal episodes, but the rate varied with the type of diarrhoea, being highest for daeria (severe watery diarrhoea) and lowest for amasha (dysentery). Drug sellers and village doctors now recommend ORT much more frequently than before. Members of the medical profession (qualified and unqualified) still lag behind in prescribing the use of ORT. The availability of pre-packaged ORS in rural pharmacies has improved enormously. There is convincing evidence that the widescale promotion in the past of ORS for dehydration in diarrhoea has led to this marked improvement today. Nevertheless the use of rice-based ORS, culturally appropriate messages and the promotion of ORS with food offer opportunities to further improve the utilization of ORT.
1016835	Bladder stone is a relatively common disease of childhood in West Sumatra with an incidence of 8.3/100,000 population per year. We have studied 87 cases with a peak age of onset of 2-4 years and a male/female ratio of 12:1. The majority of these are from poor families with a diet low in protein and phosphate. Diarrhoea is common. The composition of the stones is primarily ammonium acid urate. Patients with sterile urine have shown significantly higher levels of urinary ammonia than controls, and only approximately 50% of patients' urine were infected. This is consistent with excretion of a high acid load, due both to an acidogenic rice diet and diarrhoea, combined with a low level of phosphate. This condition was once endemic in Europe but is now confined to a belt of countries from the Balkans through Asia.
10171660	Researchers at Rice University and the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston have developed a prototype robotic aid for people with severe disabilities, with emphasis on low cost, versatility, and ease of use. Using custom software written for the Macintosh line of personal computers and a custom input device that emulates a mouse, a user can command a modified HERO 2000 robot to perform simple fetch and carry tasks in a structured indoor environment. Further interaction with the environment is possible using a household appliance controller that is also interfaced to the computer.
10171708
10189843	Future European Community regulations will require a sensitive and specific assay for measurement of coeliac toxic gluten proteins in foods marketed as gluten-free. To avoid spurious cross reactions with non-toxic proteins, specific antibodies and target antigens are required. A synthetic 19 amino acid peptide of A gliadin has been shown to cause deterioration in the morphology of small intestinal biopsy specimens of coeliac patients in remission. To develop an assay for detection of gluten in foods, based on measurement of a known toxic peptide. A monoclonal antibody raised against the toxic A gliadin peptide, with a polyclonal anti-unfractionated gliadin capture antibody, was used to develop a double sandwich enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the measurement of gluten in foods. Standard curves for gliadin and for rye, barley, and oat prolamins were produced. The sensitivity of the assay was 4 ng/ml of gliadin, 500 ng/ml for rye prolamins, and 1000 ng/ml for oat and barley prolamins. The assay could detect gluten in cooked foods, although at reduced sensitivity. Prolamins from coeliac non-toxic rice, maize, millet, and sorghum did not cross react in the assay. A variety of commercially available gluten-free foods were analysed; small quantities of gluten were detected in some products. The assay may form the basis of a sensitive method for measurement of gluten in foods for consumption by patients with coeliac disease.
10192910	We have isolated a cDNA encoding Fe-SOD from rice (Oryza sativa L.). The deduced amino acid sequence consists of a polypeptide with 255 amino acids, including a putative transit peptide (40 a.a.) in amino-terminal residues. This sequence is similar to the known plant Fe-SODs but not classified in the group of known Fe-SODs. The metal analysis and SOD assays of the partial purified recombinant protein expressed in E. coli showed that this cDNA encodes an iron-containing SOD. However this SOD activity was not inhibited by the treatment with hydrogen peroxide, which was expected to inhibit known Fe-SOD activity. mRNA of rice Fe-SOD was detected in all vegetative tissues examined, being especially abundant in calli, and strongly increased by light induction. These results suggested that this cDNA encodes rice Fe-SOD, which is apparently distinct from known plant Fe-SODs.
10192912	The composition of nutritionally and physiologically important molecules in transgenic rice with the soybean glycinin gene was determined and compared with that of a non-transgenic control. Except for the levels of protein, amino acids and moisture, no marked differences were found between the two kinds of rice. The protein content of the transgenic rice was about 20% higher than the control (control, 6.5 g/100 g; transgenic, 8.0 g/100 g) with a concomitantly lower moisture content. This increased protein content mainly resulted from the increased glycinin expressed in the transgenic rice, and the protein was susceptible to gastric and intestinal digestion juices. In parallel with the increased protein content, some important amino acids lacking in quantity in normal rice were replenished.
10196018	To disclose the risk factors for immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN), we conducted a case-control study in the Tokai area of central Japan. The subjects were 94 patients, aged 20 years or older at diagnosis, who had histologically confirmed IgAN. Two sex-, age-, and residence-matched controls were randomly selected for each case from the general population. Information on medical history and lifestyle was collected using a self-administered questionnaire. The strength of association between IgAN and a potential risk factor was assessed by calculating an odds ratio. A family history of chronic nephritis, susceptibility to the common cold, preference for salty foods, frequent consumption of raw eggs, and a high intake of carbohydrates, including rice, were significantly associated with an increased risk for IgAN. Alcohol consumption, use of antioxidant vitamin supplements, and a high intake of protein, fat, monounsaturated fatty acids, and all/n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids were somewhat protective against IgAN. Episodes of tonsillitis and exposure to organic solvents were found not to be associated with the risk in the present study. Our findings may provide some clues to the cause of IgAN.
10197544	"Rice queens," "small dicks," and "Asian take-aways," are just a few of the stereotypes that Asian gay men are faced with in Sydney's gay culture. Even though the author grew up in and quickly assimilated to the general Australian society, he felt like an outsider when he came out and moved into the gay community, where race-based sexual perceptions appear to dominate. This article is a personal exploration of how one Asian gay man came to find a place for himself within the predominantly white-oriented gay community. For the benefit of linguistically challenged readers, a glossary of Australian terms is provided at the end of this very serious article.
10197559	Obesity is influenced by genetic and environmental factors. Additionally, synergistic effects of genes and environments may be important in the development of obesity. The aim of this study was to test for genetic effects on food consumption frequency, food preferences, and their interaction with subsequent weight gain. Complete data on the frequencies of consumption of 11 foods typical of the Swedish diet were available for 98 monozygotic and 176 dizygotic twin pairs aged 25-59 y who are part of the Swedish Twin Registry. The data were collected in 1973 as part of a questionnaire study. Body mass index was measured in 1973 and again in 1984. There was some evidence that genetic effects influenced the frequency of intake of some foods. Similarity among monozygotic twins exceeded that among dizygotic twins for intake of flour and grain products and fruit in men and women, intake of milk in men, and intake of vegetables and rice in women, suggesting that genes influence preferences for these foods. Analyses conducted for twins reared together and apart also suggested greater monozygotic than dizygotic correlations, but cross-twin, cross-trait correlations were all insignificant, suggesting that the genes that affect consumption frequencies are not responsible for mediating the relation between the frequency of intake and weight change. Genetic effects and the frequency of intake are independently related to change in body mass index. However, there was no suggestion of differential genetic effects on weight gain that were dependent on the consumption frequency of the foods studied.
10197569	The optimal age at which to introduce complementary foods is a topic of considerable debate. This study was designed to evaluate this issue in a nutritionally vulnerable population in Honduras. Mothers of low-birth-weight (1500-2500 g) term (ie, small-for-gestational-age) infants were recruited in the hospital and assisted with exclusive breast-feeding during the first 4 mo. At 4 mo, mothers were randomly assigned to either continue exclusive breast-feeding to 6 mo (EBF; n = 59) or to feed complementary solid foods (jarred rice cereal, chicken, and fruit and vegetables) twice daily from 4 to 6 mo while continuing to breast-feed at their initial frequency (SF; n = 60). At 4 and 6 mo, breast milk and total energy intake were measured for a nonrandom subsample (those who could stay overnight in a central unit: 32 EBF and 31 SF). At 4 mo, breast milk intake in the subsample was not significantly different between groups (EBF: 729 +/- 135 g/d; SF: 683 +/- 151 g/d: P >0.2); from 4 to 6 mo it increased (by 28 g/d) in the EBF group but decreased (by 39 g/d) in the SF group (P < 0.005). Nonetheless, total energy intake (including solid foods) increased more from 4 to 6 mo in the SF than in the EBF group. However, there were no significant differences between groups in weight or length gain during the intervention or subsequently (6-12 mo). There was no growth advantage of complementary feeding of small-for-gestational-age, breast-fed infants between 4 and 6 mo of age.
10198085	Long-day exposure of the grass Lolium temulentum may regulate flowering via changes in gibberellin (GA) levels. Therefore, we have examined both GA levels and expression of a MYB transcription factor that is specific to the GA signal transduction pathway in monocots. This MYB gene from L. temulentum shows over 90% nucleotide identity with the barley and rice GAMYB genes, and, like them, gibberellic acid (GA3) up-regulates its expression in the seed. Furthermore, cDNAs of both the barley and L. temulentum GAMYB show the same simple patterns of hybridization with digests of L. temulentum genomic DNA. Compared with vegetative shoot apices of L. temulentum, the in situ mRNA expression of LtGAMYB does not change during the earliest steps of "floral" initiation at the apex. However, by 100 h (the double-ridge stage of flowering) its expression increased substantially and was highest in the terminal and lateral spikelet sites. Thereafter, expression declined overall but then increased within stamen primordia. Prior to increased LtGAMYB expression, long-day exposure sufficient to induce flowering led to increased (5- to 20-fold) levels of GA1 and GA4 in the leaf. Thus, increases first in GA level in the leaf followed by increased expression of LtGAMYB in the apex suggest important signaling and/or response roles in flowering.
10201112	Amino acid similarity often needs to be considered in DNA sequence comparison to elucidate gene functions. We propose a Smith-Waterman-like algorithm which considers amino acid similarity and insertions/deletions in sequences at the DNA level and at the protein level in a hybrid manner. The algorithm is applied to cDNA sequences of Oryza sativa and those of Arabidopsis thaliana. The results are compared with the results of application of NCBI's tblastx program (which compares the sequences in the BLAST manner after translation). It is shown that the present algorithm is very helpful in discovering nucleotide insertions/deletions originating from experimental errors as well as amino acid insertions/deletions due to evolutionary reasons.
10205885	In a survey of starch-based foods sampled from retail outlets in Malaysia, fungal colonies were mostly detected in wheat flour (100%), followed by rice flour (74%), glutinous rice grains (72%), ordinary rice grains (60%), glutinous rice flour (48%) and corn flour (26%). All positive samples of ordinary rice and glutinous rice grains had total fungal counts below 10(3) cfu/g sample, while among the positive rice flour, glutinous rice flour and corn flour samples, the highest total fungal count was more than 10(3) but less than 10(4) cfu/g sample respectively. However, in wheat flour samples total fungal count ranged from 10(2) cfu/g sample to slightly more than 10(4) cfu/g sample. Aflatoxigenic colonies were mostly detected in wheat flour (20%), followed by ordinary rice grains (4%), glutinous rice grains (4%) and glutinous rice flour (2%). No aflatoxigenic colonies were isolated from rice flour and corn flour samples. Screening of aflatoxin B1, aflatoxin B2, aflatoxin G1 and aflatoxin G2 using reversed-phase HPLC were carried out on 84 samples of ordinary rice grains and 83 samples of wheat flour. Two point four percent (2.4%) of ordinary rice grains were positive for aflatoxin G1 and 3.6% were positive for aflatoxin G2. All the positive samples were collected from private homes at concentrations ranging from 3.69-77.50 micrograms/kg. One point two percent (1.2%) of wheat flour samples were positive for aflatoxin B1 at a concentration of 25.62 micrograms/kg, 4.8% were positive for aflatoxin B2 at concentrations ranging from 11.25-252.50 micrograms/kg, 3.6% were positive for aflatoxin G1 at concentrations ranging from 25.00-289.38 micrograms/kg and 13.25% were positive for aflatoxin G2 at concentrations ranging from 16.25-436.25 micrograms/kg. Similarly, positive wheat flour samples were mostly collected from private homes.
10205906	We screened 93 lesion mimic mutants of rice for resistance to the blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, and found eight mutants that exhibited significant resistance to the fungus. We called these mutants cdr (cell death and resistance) and further analyzed three of them. Two mutations, cdr1 and cdr2, were recessive and one, Cdr3, was dominant. Many small brownish lesions developed over the entire leaf of the mutants 20-50 days after sowing. TUNEL staining revealed that DNA fragmentation occurred in leaf blade cells of the homozygous Cdr3 mutants. Autofluorescence and callose deposition were visible in leaf cells of these three mutants. Activation of two defense-related genes, PBZ1 and PR1, was observed in the leaves of the mutants; high expression of PBZ1 was correlated with the lesion formation in the three mutants, whereas PR1 was constitutively expressed in the cdr2 and Cdr3 mutants irrespective of the lesion formation. Levels of momilactone A, a major phytoalexin of rice, in these mutants were increased approximately 100-400-fold relative to the wild-type levels. Suspension-cultured cells of the cdr1 and cdr2 but not Cdr3 produced higher levels of H2O2 than the wild type when treated with calyculin A, an inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1. These results suggest that biochemical lesions of cdr1 and cdr2 lie in the early signaling steps leading to activation of the NADPH oxidase and that type-1 protein phosphatase is operative in protein dephosphorylation involved in NADPH oxidase activation.
10205912	The bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) has become the most popular tool for cloning large DNA fragments. The inserts of most BAC clones average 100-200 kilobases (kb) and molecular characterization of such large DNA fragments is a major challenge. Here we report a simple and expedient technique for physical mapping of BAC inserts. Individual BAC molecules were immobilized on glass slides coated with Poly-L-lysine. The intact circular BAC molecules were visualized by fluorescence in situ hybridization using BAC DNA as a probe. The 7.4 kb BAC vector was extended to approximately 2.44 kb per micrometer. Digitally measured linear distances can be transformed into kilobases of DNA using the extension of BAC vector as a standard calibration. We mapped DNA fragments as small as 2 kb directly on circular BAC molecules. A rice BAC clone containing both tandem and dispersed repeats was analyzed using this technique. The distribution and organization of the different repeats within the BAC insert were efficiently determined. The results showed that this technique will be especially valuable for characterizing BAC clones that contain complex repetitive DNA sequences.
10207998	Short runs of mononucleotide repeats are present in chloroplast genomes of higher plants. In soybean, rice, and pine, PCR (polymerase chain reaction) with flanking primers has shown that the numbers of A or T residues in such repeats are variable among closely related taxa. Here we describe a set of primers for studying mononucleotide repeat variation in chloroplast DNA of angiosperms where database information is limited. A total of 39 (A)n and (T)n repeats (n > or = 10) were identified in the tobacco chloroplast genome, and DNA sequences encompassing these 39 regions were aligned with orthologous DNA sequences in the databases. Consensus primer pairs were constructed and used to amplify total genomic DNA from a hierarchical set of angiosperms. All 10 primer pairs generated PCR products from members of the Solanaceae, and 8 of the 10 were also functional in most other angiosperm species. Levels of interspecific polymorphism within the genera Nicotiana, Lycopersicon (both Solanaceae), and Actinidia (Actinidiaceae) proved to be high, while intraspecific variation in Nicotiana tabacum, Lycopersicon esculentum, and Actinidia chinensis was limited. Sequence analysis of PCR products from three primer pairs revealed variable numbers of A, G, and T residues in mononucleotide arrays as the major cause of polymorphism in Actinidia. Our results suggest that universal primers targeted to mononucleotide repeats may serve as general tools to study chloroplast variation in angiosperms.
10208949	Evaluation of nutritional recovery, intestinal permeability, and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) response in malnourished children with persistent diarrhoea and their relation to concomitant systemic infection(s). Open study of severely malnourished children (aged 6-36 months) with persistent diarrhoea (>/= 14 days) admitted for nutritional rehabilitation with a standardised rice-lentil and yogurt diet. Successful recovery was defined prospectively as overall weight gain (> 5 g/kg/day) with a reduction in stool output by day 7 of treatment. Data on coexisting infections and serum C reactive protein (CRP) were collected at admission. Of 63 children, 48 (group A) recovered within seven days of dietary treatment. These children had a significant increase in serum IGF-I (DeltaIGF-I%) and, in contrast to serum prealbumin and retinol binding protein, DeltaIGF-I% correlated with weight gain (r = 0.41). There was no correlation between the IGF-I response and intestinal permeability as assessed by urinary lactulose/rhamnose excretion. Treatment failures (group B) included more children with clinical (relative risk, 4.8; 95% confidence interval, 1.2 to 19.7) and culture proven sepsis at admission and higher concentrations of serum CRP (median (range), 36 (0-182) v 10 (0-240) mg/l) at admission. There was a negative correlation between admission CRP concentration and DeltaIGF-I% (r = -0.45). In comparison with serum albumin, prealbumin, and retinol binding protein, serum IGF-I increment is a better marker of nutritional recovery in malnourished children with persistent diarrhoea. The possible association of systemic infections, serum IGF-I response, and mucosal recovery needs evaluation in future studies.
10217128
10217180	Proteins extracted from green and etiolated shoots of rice were separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and relative molecular weights and isoelectric points were determined. The separated proteins were electroblotted onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane and 85 proteins were analyzed by a gas-phase protein sequencer. The N-terminal amino acid sequences of 21 out of 85 proteins were determined in this manner. N-terminal regions of the remaining proteins could not be sequenced. The internal amino acid sequences of proteins were determined by sequence analysis of peptides obtained by the Cleveland peptide mapping method and compared with those of known plant and animal protein sequences to understand the nature of the proteins. Green shoots revealed the presence of photosynthetic proteins as expected; however, as etiolated shoots were not photosynthetic, only precursors of the photosynthetic proteins were identified. Interestingly, the presence of L-ascorbate peroxidase only in etiolated shoots suggests a cellular protectant function for this antioxidant enzyme in the etiolating shoots. Using this experimental approach, we could identify the major proteins involved in growth regulation in photosynthetic green shoots as well as in etiolating rice seedlings.
1021998	The sugar content in the grits and in a gruel cooked with samples of oats and buckwheat subjected to hydrothermal treatment under different conditions and also in the oat flour, a product of baby and dietetic nutrition, was quantified. Hydrothermal processing results in significant changes occurring individual sugars of the grit. During culinary treatment these changes are levelled out, but in the end the level of virtually all types of sugar is higher in the gruel cooked with hydrothermally treated grit than in that prepared with initial, untreated grit. The oats flour is distinguished by a high glucose, maltose, fructose and saccharose content. A fall of the reducing sugars level coming as a result of thermal and culinary treatment is explained by their participating in the reaction of melanoidine formation. On the other hand, a rise in their content under rigorous conditions and in the production of oat flour is due to the starting of the starch hydrolysis.
10222251	Eighty accessions representing 23 species from the genus Oryza were examined for the presence of homologues of early nodulin (ENOD) genes. Southern analyses indicated a widespread distribution of homologues of ENOD genes across all the genomes of rice as well as other monocots. The degree of cross-hybridization of the legume ENOD genes with sequences in the genomes of various species, as revealed by hybridization differentials measured in terms of signal intensities, however, suggests that the homologues of ENOD genes are conserved to varied extents in different Oryza species. The presence of homologues of ENOD genes in a wide variety of plant species denotes that the biological functions of early nodulins may be diverse, and not restricted to nodule organogenesis alone. The fact that ENOD gene homologues exist widely both in dicots and monocots provides evidence that these homologues have arisen from a common ancestral plant.
10223965	Methanotrophic and nitrifying bacteria are both able to oxidize CH4 as well as NH4+. To date it is not possible to estimate the relative contribution of methanotrophs to nitrification and that of nitrifiers to CH4 oxidation and thus to assess their roles in N and C cycling in soils and sediments. This study presents new options for discrimination between the activities of methanotrophs and nitrifiers, based on the competitive inhibitor CH3F and on recovery after inhibition with C2H2. By using rice plant soil as a model system, it was possible to selectively inactivate methanotrophs in soil slurries at a CH4/CH3F/NH4+ molar ratio of 0.1:1:18. This ratio of CH3F to NH4+ did not affect ammonia oxidation, but methane oxidation was inhibited completely. By using the same model system, it could be shown that after 24 h of exposure to C2H2 (1,000 parts per million volume), methanotrophs recovered within 24 h while nitrifiers stayed inactive for at least 3 days. This gave an "assay window" of 48 h when only methanotrophs were active. Applying both assays to model microcosms planted with rice plants demonstrated a major contribution of methanotrophs to nitrification in the rhizosphere, while the contribution of nitrifiers to CH4 oxidation was insignificant.
10223989	Rice field soil with a nonsaturated water content induced CH4 consumption activity when it was supplemented with 5% CH4. After a lag phase of 3 days, CH4 was consumed rapidly until the concentration was less than 1.8 parts per million by volume (ppmv). However, the soil was not able to maintain the oxidation activity at near-atmospheric CH4 mixing ratios (i.e., 5 ppmv). The soil microbial community was monitored by performing denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) during the oxidation process with different PCR primer sets based on the 16S rRNA gene and on functional genes. A universal small-subunit (SSU) ribosomal DNA (rDNA) primer set and 16S rDNA primer sets specifically targeting type I methylotrophs (members of the gamma subdivision of the class Proteobacteria [gamma-Proteobacteria]) and type II methylotrophs (members of the alpha-Proteobacteria) were used. Functional PCR primers targeted the genes for particulate methane monooxygenase (pmoA) and methanol dehydrogenase (mxaF), which code for key enzymes in the catabolism of all methanotrophs. The yield of PCR products amplified from DNA in soil that oxidized CH4 was the same as the yield of PCR products amplified from control soil when the universal SSU rDNA primer set was used but was significantly greater when primer sets specific for methanotrophs were used. The DGGE patterns and the sequences of major DGGE bands obtained with the universal SSU rDNA primer set showed that the community structure was dominated by nonmethanotrophic populations related to the genera Flavobacterium and Bacillus and was not influenced by CH4. The structure of the methylotroph community as determined with the specific primer sets was less complex; this community consisted of both type I and type II methanotrophs related to the genera Methylobacter, Methylococcus, and Methylocystis. DGGE profiles of PCR products amplified with functional gene primer sets that targeted the mxaF and pmoA genes revealed that there were pronounced community shifts when CH4 oxidation began. High CH4 concentrations stimulated both type I and II methanotrophs in rice field soil with a nonsaturated water content, as determined with both ribosomal and functional gene markers.
10224418
10226688	Protoplasts (wall-less cells) isolated enzymatically from leaf tissues of Manihot esculenta, Passiflora edulis and Petunia parodii, and from cell suspensions of Oryza sativa, Passiflora giberti, Petunia hybrida and Salpiglossis sinuata, were cultured for up to 35 d at an interface between the inert, oxygen-gassed perfluorocarbon (PFC) liquid, perfluorodecalin, overlaid with liquid or semi-solidified aqueous media. The maximum increase in mitotic division, as assessed by initial plating efficiency (IPE) occurred with protoplasts of O. sativa, which showed a 4-fold increase above the control over 35 d. Similar, but less pronounced increases in IPE of 90-103% occurred with S. sinuata, P. giberti and P. parodii following culture with oxygenated PFC. The least responsive species was M. esculenta, where the mean IPE after 25 d was increased by 33% over control. For those totipotent protoplast systems (e.g. P. edulis, P. giberti, O. sativa and P. parodii) phenotypically normal plants were regenerated following initial culture with oxygenated PFC. The advantages of such an interface system include (1) ease of sterilisation of the PFC by autoclaving, (2) the recycleability and, hence, recovery of the PFC, thereby offsetting the high initial costs, and (3) the ability to aspirate cells at the interface.
10227732	We have previously suggested that differences in cancer incidence between Polynesians (including Maoris and people from several Pacific islands) and Europeans in New Zealand may at least partially relate to differences in the species of food plants (fruits, vegetables and cereals) preferentially eaten by these groups. Twenty-five food plants that are typically eaten in different amounts by these two population groups were selected for detailed study. Antimutagenic properties of three extracts from each of the selected plants were investigated using a preincubation mutagenicity assay with Salmonella typhimurium strain TA1538 against the mutagenicity of the heterocyclic amine 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ). The data revealed strong antimutagenic properties in several of the food plants commonly eaten by Polynesians, especially rice, watercress, pawpaw, taro leaves, green banana and mango. Using the New Zealand food database, a number of nutrients and micronutrients with antimutagenic and anticarcinogenic potential were identified from the selected food plants. Some of these were tested for antimutagenic potential in parallel experiments to those done with the food plant extracts. Although some of these micronutrients are antimutagens against IQ, their concentrations in the food plants failed to explain the protection against mutagenicity found in the experiments with extracts of the food plants. Thus, other types of chemical, not identified in the database, must be leading to antimutagenesis. Possible active molecules include chlorophylls, carotenoids, flavonoids and coumarins, many of which are also known to be anticarcinogens. If human cancer data are to be interpreted in terms of cancer protection, these components need urgently to be quantified in food plants in the New Zealand diet, especially in those food plants eaten in large amounts by Polynesians.
10228966	The influence of microbial phytase on the ileal amino acid digestibilities in three cereals (corn, sorghum, and wheat), four oilseed meals (soybean meal, canola meal, cottonseed meal, and sunflower meal) and two cereal by-products (wheat middlings and rice polishings) was determined using 5-wk-old broilers. Supplementation of microbial phytase (1,200 FTU/kg) improved (P < 0.001 to 0.10) the digestibilities of protein and amino acids in all feedstuffs, but the magnitude of response varied depending on the feedstuff and the amino acid considered. Mean digestibility of the 15 amino acids in the feedstuffs without and with phytase were: corn, 78.0 and 80.4%; sorghum, 74.7 and 79.4%; wheat, 77.7 and 84.6%; soybean meal, 82.2 and 85.5%; canola meal, 78.7 and 80.7%; cottonseed meal, 70.8 and 74.2%; sunflower meal, 76.7 and 80.2%; wheat middlings, 70.8 and 73.4%; and rice polishings 62.1 and 66.9%, respectively. When individual amino acids were considered, the increments in digestibility were relatively higher for threonine and valine. This effect was consistent across all feedstuffs. The observed variations in response among feedstuffs were influenced by the inherent protein digestibility, but not by dietary phytic acid concentration. No correlations were determined between the dietary concentrations of phytic acid and phytase responses in terms of protein digestibility (r = 0.20; P > 0.31) and mean amino acid digestibility (r = 0.12; P > 0.51); however a significant negative correlation was observed between inherent protein digestibility and phytase responses in protein digestibility (r = -0.42; P < 0.03). It appears that solubilities of phytate salts and protein, and their influence on the degree of phytate-protein complexing in different feedstuffs, may be more relevant than total phytic acid concentrations. Interestingly, dietary phytic acid concentrations were negatively correlated with inherent protein (r = -0.81; P < 0.001) and mean amino acid (r = -0.85; P < 0.001) digestibilities of the feedstuffs evaluated in this study.
10230059	The characterization of plasmid-genomic DNA junctions following plant transformation has established links between DNA double-strand break repair (DSBR), illegitimate recombination and plasmid DNA integration. The limited information on plasmid-plasmid junctions in plants comes from the dicot species tobacco and Arabidopsis. We analyzed 12 representative transgenic rice lines, carrying a range of transforming plasmid rearrangements, which predominantly reflected microhomology mediated illegitimate recombination involving short complementary patches at the recombining ends. Direct end-ligation, in the absence of homology between the recombining molecules, occurred only rarely. Filler DNA was found at some of the junctions. Short, purine-rich tracts were present, either at the junction site or in the immediate flanking regions. Putative DNA topoisomerase I binding sites were clustered around the junctions. Although different regions of the transforming plasmid were involved in plasmid-plasmid recombination, we showed that a 19 bp palindromic sequence, including the TATA box of the CaMV 35S promoter, acted as a recombination hotspot. The purine-rich half of the palindromic sequence was specifically involved at the recombination junctions. This recombination hotspot is located within the 'highly recombinogenic' region of the full-length CaMV RNA that has been shown to promote viral recombination in dicot plants. Clustering of plasmid recombination events in this highly recombinogenic region, even in the absence of viral enzymes and other cis-acting elements proves that the plant cellular machinery alone is sufficient to recognize and act on these viral sequences. Our data also show the similarity between mechanisms underlying junction formation in dicot and monocot plants transformed using different procedures.
10231319	Because IgG antibodies to foods can be detected before IgE antibodies to inhalants, increased levels of IgG antibodies to foods might be used as a predictor of IgE-mediated allergy in initially nonatopic children. To examine the cross-sectional relation between IgG to foods (i.e. mixture of wheat and rice, mixture of soybean and peanut, egg white, cow's milk, meat, orange and potato) and specific IgE to cat, dog, mite, milk and egg white in 1-year-old children. All atopic children (n = 120; 58 with and 62 without eczema) and a random sample of the nonatopic children (n = 144) of the Bokaal study were tested on their IgG response to foods. The IgG results of the food assays were dichotomized high or low using the 66th centile as a cut-off value. Atopic children more often had high IgG levels to foods than nonatopic children. IgG to egg white (OR = 7.50) and mixture of wheat and rice (OR = 4.79) were most strongly associated with positive specific IgE. In a stepwise logistic regression analysis egg white, mixture of wheat and rice, and orange were selected (OR = 3.76, OR = 2.43, and OR = 2.11, respectively). In children without eczema higher levels of IgG to foods were still significantly associated with atopy, which was most prominent for egg white, orange and cow's milk. An increased IgG antibody level to foods, especially to egg white, orange, and mixture of wheat and rice, indicates an increased risk of having IgE to cat, dog, mite, egg and/or milk allergens, even in the noneczematous group. Therefore, in another prospective study we are currently investigating the usefulness of IgG in early identification, i.e. before IgE antibodies can be detected, of children with an increased risk of developing allergic diseases in the future.
10231964	To refine the current physical map of rice, we have established a restriction fragment fingerprinting method for identifying overlap between pairs of rice yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) clones and defining the physical arrangement of YACs within contiguous fragments (contigs). In this method, Southern blots of rice YAC DNAs digested with a restriction endonuclease are probed with a rice microsatellite probe, (GGC)5. The probe produces a unique fingerprint profile characteristic of each YAC clone. The profile is then digitized, processed in a computer, and a statistic that represents the degree of overlap between two YACs is calculated. The statistics have been used to detect overlaps among YAC clones, thereby filling a gap between two neighbouring contigs and organizing overlapping rice YAC clones into contiguous fragments. We applied this method to rearranging YACs that had previously been assigned to rice chromosome 6 by anchoring with RFLP markers.
10235173	This cross-sectional study was undertaken to investigate the association between the reported frequency of consumption of vegetables and fruits, the choice of staple carbohydrate, and glucose intolerance. One thousand one hundred twenty-two subjects aged 40-64 years in a population-based study underwent an oral glucose tolerance test, and their food consumption was assessed using a food-frequency questionnaire. The crude prevalence of undiagnosed non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) was 4.5%, and that of impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) 16.8%. The age-standardized prevalence rates were 2.3 and 11.2%, respectively. Frequent consumption of vegetables throughout the year was inversely associated with the risk of having NIDDM (odds ratio [OR] = 0.16; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.04-0.69). This association was maintained after adjustment for age, gender, and family history. Vegetable consumption during the summer months had a much weaker inverse association with the risk of having NIDDM that failed to reach statistical significance. A nonsignificant inverse association between frequent consumption of fruits and NIDDM was observed. Frequent self-reported pasta and rice consumption was associated with a reduction in the risk of having IGT and NIDDM. (OR = 0.62, 95% CI = 0.44-0.87, and OR = 0.51, 95% CI = 0.27-0.99, respectively) but this relationship was not independent of age. Whether these associations reflect specific effects of particular nutrients or are a reflection of the patterning of lifestyle factors remains to be determined.
10235208	We surveyed elderly individuals in an Asian community to determine the prevalence of constipation and its association with sociodemographic and lifestyle factors. This information will be used to plan a health promotion program for the elderly. A random sample of 2807 residents aged > or = 60 yr in Singapore were interviewed in their homes, using a standardized questionnaire. The response rate was 87.4% (n = 2454). The overall age- and gender-adjusted prevalence rate of functional constipation was 11.6 per 100 persons (95% confidence interval [CI], 11.4-11.7). There were no gender or ethnic differences in constipation rates. Increased rates of constipation were significantly associated with advancing age. We found a significant dose-response relationship of increased constipation rates with decreased intake of rice, increased intake of Chinese tea, and number of chronic illnesses and medications, after controlling for potential confounders. Constipation was also significantly associated with lower intake of fruits and vegetables, but no dose-response gradient was seen. Patients taking many medications should be monitored for constipation and given advice to avoid constipating factors. Further studies are needed to establish the causal-effect relationship of rice and Chinese tea with constipation.
1025716	There has been a temporary increase in schistosomiasis japonica after World War II in each of the known endemic areas, but a national control programme, including use of molluscicides, lining irrigation ditches through rice paddies with concrete and the reclamation of swampy areas by drainage and filling, begun around 1950, drastically reduced the prevalence and distribution of the disease. It can be said that these measures together with improvements in agricultural techniques, mechanization of farming and also socioeconomic factors such as improvements in the living standards of the inhabitants and urbanization have brought about a rapid decrease in schistosomiasis in Japan.
1025901	Chemical and biological methods were used in determining the biological value of dairy products ("Malyutka", "Malysh", B-rice, kephir and "Bebiron-I") employed in the nutrition of infants kept on artificial feeding. The results of these methods are found to accord well with each other. The highest biological value were found to possess the new Soviet-made substituents o
1027111	Annual population curves for C. tritaeniorhynchus are presented for representative localities distributed from Pakistan, east through Southeast Asia and the Philippines and north to Japan and Korea. In the dry temperature (Pakistan) and colder maritime climates (Japan and Korea). C. tritaeniorhynchus populations apparently overwintered as hibernating adults, while in the warmer maritime climates (Okinawa and Taiwan), gonotrophic activity and larval development continued throughout the winter months. In these climatic types, the population curves closely paralleled the annual temperature curves. In the tropical climates, however, temporal population patterns were closely related to available moisture either in the form of annual precipitation and/or rice irrigation. The extremely variable environmental conditions tolerated C. tritaeniorhynchus throughout its distribution attests to the physiological and ecological plasticity of this species and suggests that further ecological and genetic studies may reveal marked clinical variances among selected biological parameters.
1027114	A survey of flies in Bangkok and neighboring province revelaed that among 8,675 flies collected there were 10 genera and 18 species of flies, eg. Musca domestica, M. bezzii, M. conducens, M. nebulo, Chrysomyia megacephala, C. rufifacies, Phaenicia sericata, P. cuprina, Sarcophaga ruficornis, S. peregrina, S. orchidae, S. albiceps, Megaselia scalaris, Lispe orientalis, Anaclysta flexa, Morellia hortensia, Hemipyrellia ligurriens and Orthellia coeruleifrons. Musca mostly bred in low-protein content media, eg., garbage piles of vegetable and rice, and was predominant in the morning while Chrysomyia and Phaenicia mostly bred in high-protein content media, eg., animal carcasses, and were predominant in the afternoon. Female flies were bigger than male and they were more predominant than males in or around breeding places. The density of flies was correlated with the relative humidity but not with rainfall or temperature. The density of flies was correlated with the occurrence of gastrointestinal diseases. Some cases of myiasis have been reported from Thailand.
1030838	Measures that would change the habitat of the snails were found to prevent its breeding. Among these are clearing and drainage of waterlogged areas; filling of depressions where filling materials are available; ponding of areas which cannot be drained, and improved rice culture. The degree of success in snail control depends to a large extent on the amount of change brought about in the habitat. The more radical the change, the greater the reduction in snail density. It can be expected that improvement in sanitation in the form of toilet construction and use, provision of safe water supply, building of footbridges and the control of stray animals will bring a further decline in the transmission of the disease. Studies have shown that perfect sanitation in the form of toilet construction and use will reduce transmission by about 75%, the other 25% being contributed by lower mammals. Agro-engineering control measures are presently being carried out intensively in 7 town of Leyte, with food assistance from the UN/FAO World Food Program being given to volunteer workers as incentives for them to work. Snail evaluation after 2 years has shown a snail reduction by 72% in the areas covered. It may be mentioned here that sanitation improvement, especially latrine construction, is an ongoing program of the Department of Health in all rural areas.
10313412	The total costs of illness and injury in the U.S. civilian noninstitutionalized population in 1980 amounted to $381.7 billion. The direct costs of illness and injury--resource expenditures for the diagnosis, treatment, and management of medical and dental conditions--were $153.9 billion, or 40.3 percent of total costs. Indirect costs--economic losses from morbidity and mortality--were $227.9 billion, or 59.7 percent of total costs. Of indirect costs, $104.9 billion resulted from productivity losses because of morbidity, and $123.0 billion represent the present value of lost productivity from premature mortality based on a net effective discount rate of 4 percent. These estimates, based on data from the 1980. National Medical Care Utilization and Expenditure Survey (NMCUES), differ from other estimates of the costs of illness and injury in 1980 (Gibson and Waldo, 1982; Rice, Hodgson, and Kopstein, 1985). The differences, which can be resolved, are attributable to two major factors: (1) NMCUES includes only the civilian noninstitutionalized population, but the other estimates include the institutionalized population and the military; and (2) NMCUES indirect cost estimates for the population unable to work include persons who were retired for health reasons in 1979 and 1980, disabled homemakers, and other persons who were disabled for the entire year 1980 but were not retired for health reasons in 1979, but the Rice et al. estimates do not include the last two categories in the population unable to work. The principal NMCUES findings on the total costs of illness in the civilian noninstitutionalized population reinforce the importance of considering distributional effects. Persons 65 years of age and over represent one-tenth of this population yet account for more than one-fourth of direct costs and more than their share of total costs, even though the institutionalized elderly are excluded. More than two-thirds of total costs for this age category are accounted for by direct costs. Direct costs also account for more than two-thirds of total costs for people under 17 years of age. However, this youngest age category, which constitutes over one-fourth of the civilian noninstitutionalized population, generates only 12.3 percent of direct costs. In contrast, indirect costs account for well more than 60 percent of total costs for the working-age population (17-64 years of age). Within the working-age population, per capita direct costs are highest among persons who are not full participants in the work force, many of whom are not working full time or at all because of injury or ill health.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
10318692	The mechanisms by which moderate water stress (adding polyethylene glycol 6000 to the root medium) induces a sustained inhibition of growth in emerging first leaves of intact rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings was investigated under growth-chamber conditions. Early (24 h) inhibition of leaf growth was not related to changes in root size or in osmotic potential gradients and cell wall-yielding characteristics in the leaf-expansion zone of stressed seedlings. However, reductions in root-to-leaf hydraulic conductance (L) were measured in two rice cultivars after 4 or 24 h at various levels of water stress, and these reductions correlated well with the inhibition of leaf growth. We assayed L by a psychrometric method and, in intact seedlings, by a novel osmotic-jump method. The addition of 0.5 mM HgCl2 to the root medium to inhibit water transport through Hg-sensitive water channels in the roots did not inhibit leaf growth in unstressed seedlings. However, both leaf growth and L were additionally reduced (by 49% and 43%, respectively) within minutes of adding HgCl2 to roots of water-stressed seedlings. Water stress therefore appeared to increase the transport of water via Hg-sensitive water channels. Other mechanisms were apparently involved in inhibiting overall L and leaf growth.
10319558	Rice agro-ecosystem of Kheda district in Central Gujarat was inhabited by 14 species of anophelines and 15 species of culicines. Anopheles subpictus and Culex vishnui gr dominated the respective groups. Species diversity in rice fields as well as in associated habitats remained high during non-monsoon (rabi) period. There existed several positive and negative interspecific associations. Malaria vector An. culicifacies showed positive association with An. subpictus, An. annularis, An. pallidus and Cx. quinquefasciatus but was found negatively associated with An. nigerrimus, Cx. vishnui and Cx. tritaeniorhynchus.
1032076	A survey of skull development of the rice rat (Oryzomys palustris natator) covering a period of 21 days to 16 months involving equal numbers of males and females (108) was undertaken using various skull parameters. Sexual dimorphism in relation to body weight and length emerged before that of the skull which was only clearly marked by 2 months. A number of the skull parameters by virtue of their individual growth potential did not show sexual differences in size for a long time, whereas others were clearly marked. Once the differences between the sexes had been established they were maintained. One parameter - lenght of cranium - represents those parameters which show changes and it was found that the male rat continued to show a steady linear increase in length up to 16 months, whereas the female cranial length shows a deceleration with termination around 12 months. The skull differences are mirrored in the weight and length findings and it suggested that the earlier sexual maturity of the females is compensated by an earlier cessation of growth compared to the males which mature later and have a correspondingly later cessation.
1032105	Quantitative expressions of character difference between reciprocal crosses have been studied by different researchers in a number of plant species, such as Epilobium, Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Hordeum sativum, Triticum aestivum, Trifolium hybridum, Linum usitatissimum, Nicotiana rustica, and others. In all cases it was found that the nonequivalence of reciprocal crosses manifested itself beginning with the F1 generation, with the exception of some flax crosses in which reciprocals differed beginning with the F2 generation. The nonequivalence of reciprocal crosses usually manifested itself in the inequality of their F1 and/or F2 or backcross means; however, there were instances in which their means were the same but the variances were different. Both matroclinous and patroclinous inheritances were reported in plants. Because of the casual complexity of reciprocal differences the experimental results often lack a simple explanation.
10321121	Adverse reactions to food and food additives must be classified according to pathogenic criteria. It is necessary to strictly differentiate between an allergy, triggered by a substance-specific immunological mechanism, and an intolerance, in which no specific immune reaction can be established. In contrast to views expressed in the media, by laymen and patients, adverse reactions to additives are less frequent than is believed. Due to frequently "alternative" methods of examination, an allergy to food additives is often wrongly blamed as the cause of a wide variety of symptoms and illness. Diagnosing an allergy or intolerance to additives normally involves carrying out double-blind, placebo-controlled oral provocation tests with food additives. Allergic reactions to food additives occur particularly against additives which are organic in origin. In principle, it is possible that during the manufacture of genetically modified plants and food, proteins are transferred which potentially create allergies. However, legislation exists both in the USA (Federal Drug Administration, FDA) and in Switzerland (Ordinance on the approval process for GM food, GM food additives and GM accessory agents for processing) which require a careful analysis before a genetically modified product is launched, particularly where foreign genes are introduced. Products containing genetically modified organisms (GMO) as additives must be declared. In addition, the source of the foreign protein must be identified. The "Round-up ready" (RR) soya flour introduced in Switzerland is no different from natural soya flour in terms of its allergenic potential. Genetically modified food can be a blessing for allergic individuals if gene technology were to succeed in removing the allergen (e.g. such possibilities exist for rice). The same caution shown towards genetically modified food might also be advisable for foreign food in our diet. Luckily, the immune system of the digestive tract in healthy people tolerates foreign antigens. Food allergies in adults occur mainly among those allergic to pollen.
10322198	Over the past two years, selected regions of the rice genome have been sequenced and shown to be colinear at the sequence level with limited regions of other cereal genomes. A large number of expressed gene sequences and molecular markers have accumulated in the public databases. Large insert clone libraries of the rice genome have been constructed, and rice has become an increasingly attractive candidate for whole genome sequencing.
10322780	To establish a method to determine food oral-colon transit time (OCTT). OCTT was determined for five groups of food rich in carbohydrate in 13 healthy adults with breath hydrogen test (BHT) using lactulose as control. OCTT was 90.0 +/- 50.6 min, 237 +/- 64.9 min, 341.3 +/- 77.9 min and 352.5 +/- 59.5 min, respectively for lactulose syrup, sweet potato, steamed bun and corn flour, and OCTT could not identified for rice and rice with ground meat due to hydrogen production only in few study subjects or no rising in hydrogen value. OCTT inversely correlated with peak hydrogen value (r = -0.6625) and correlated with the time of peak hydrogen value and food absorption rate (r = 0.7668 and 0.8790). BHT is a simple, reliable, non-invasive and feasible method to determine food OCTT.
10323223	DNA methylation is known to play an important role in the regulation of gene expression in eukaryotes. In this study, we assessed the extent and pattern of cytosine methylation in the rice genome, using the technique of methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism (MSAP), which is a modification of the amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) method that makes use of the differential sensitivity of a pair of isoschizomers to cytosine methylation. The tissues assayed included seedlings and flag leaves of an elite rice hybrid, Shanyou 63, and the parental lines Zhenshan 97 and Minghui 63. In all, 1076 fragments, each representing a recognition site cleaved by either or both of the isoschizomers, were amplified using 16 pairs of selective primers. A total of 195 sites were found to be methylated at cytosines in one or both parents, and the two parents showed approximately the same overall degree of methylation (16.3%), as revealed by the incidence of differential digestion by the isoschizomers. Four classes of patterns were identified in a comparative assay of cytosine methylation in the parents and hybrid; increased methylation was detected in the hybrid compared to the parents at some of the recognition sites, while decreased methylation in the hybrid was detected at other sites. A small proportion of the sites was found to be differentially methylated in seedlings and flag leaves; DNA from young seedlings was methylated to a greater extent than that from flag leaves. Almost all of the methylation patterns detected by MSAP could be confirmed by Southern analysis using the isolated amplified fragments as probes. The results clearly demonstrate that the MSAP technique is highly efficient for large-scale detection of cytosine methylation in the rice genome. We believe that the technique can be adapted for use in other plant species.
10323229	The segregation pattern and chromosomal location of a slender glume mutation, induced by gamma-ray irradiation, was investigated. The mutation is genetically unstable: in the selfed progenies of slender glumed plants, not only plants with normal glumes but also plants that are chimeric for glume shape almost always appear at low frequency. The results showed that the mutation is controlled by a single recessive, mutable mutant gene slg. The frequency of reversion of slg to its wild-type state was little affected by crossing, back-crossing, genetic background or cytoplasmic factors. Conventional trisomic and linkage analyses revealed that the slg locus was located close to the rfs (rolled fine stripe leaf) locus on chromosome 7. In a subsequent RFLP analysis, slg was found to be located between the two RFLP loci XNpb20 and XNpb33, with recombination values of 3.0 and 3.2%, respectively. Southern analysis indicated that the mutability of slg is caused by none of the known transposable elements in rice. From these results, we infer that slg has a novel transposable DNA insert in its vicinity, which was possibly activated by gamma-ray irradiation.
10325615	The authors used the method of cyanogen bromide-fulorimetry to determine the trace amounts of bound selenomethionine (SeMet) in corn, rice, wheat, soybean and human blood. The contents of SeMet in corn samples were found to be 9.2-19014.1 ng/g, and 45.5% to 82% of the total Se in corn samples were in the form of SeMet. Like corn, the proportion of Se in the form of SeMet in total Se in rice, wheat and soybean were 54.9%-86.5%, 50.4%-81.4% and 62.9%-71.8% respectively. The results showed that SeMet is the major chemical form of Se in grain samples determined. The contents of SeMet in two human blood samples (Se content 56.4 ng/g and 71.8 ng/g) were determined as 28.3 ng/g and 53.4 ng/g respectively.
10325653	A survey on nutritional knowledge, attitude and practice (K-A-P) was carried out among 965 residents aged between 20 and 50 and randomly selected in Beijing, Guangzhou and Shanghai. The results showed that subjects' knowledge level was not high, and their knowledge scores were significantly correlated with their education levels (r = 0.3011, P < 0.010). Subjects aged above 35 had a higher knowledge level than that of younger ones. Subjects from three cities held a positive and favorable attitude towards the acquisition of nutritional knowledge, reasonable dietary pattern and healthy diet habits. Results of food frequency survey indicated that the consumption of rice/flour, meat/poultry, vegetables, fruits, milk and milk products was relatively high. In addition, 89.5%, 78.8% and 47.8% of subjects selected newspaper, TV and broadcast as their main sources of nutritional information respectively. This survey provided basis on content and method for future nutrition education.
10326104	To estimate the seroprevalence of human leptospirosis in the Mekong delta in Viet Nam, an epidemiological survey was conducted in the province of Tien Giang, which is representative of the socioeconomic activities of the region (rice growing and cattle breeding). A cross-sectional study included 35 clusters representing 1400 people randomly selected and aged 15-60 years. Sex, age, occupation, contact with animals, type of water supply, and individual habits were recorded. Leptospiral agglutinins were detected by the microagglutination test, with a battery of 22 live antigens representing the main pathogenic serogroups of Leptospira species and additional local strains. 263 sera (18.8%) gave positive results and 41 (2.9%) had a titre of agglutinins > or = 400, suggesting recent infection. No significant difference was found between females and males. The distribution of seroprevalence was homogeneous throughout the population studied, with the exception of the 15-25 years age group, in which leptospiral antibodies were less frequent. Fifteen serogroups were found, the most prevalent being Bataviae (21.7%), Panama (15.2%), Icterohaemorrhagiae (13.7%) and Australis (8.7%). No significant link between leptospiral seropositivity and professional activities or contacts with animals was found, indicating that leptospirosis in the Mekong delta may be considered as an environmentally linked disease. Leptospirosis is known to be endemic in south-east Asia, and these data demonstrated the high level of circulation of leptospires and the potential importance of leptospiral infections among the rural population in this area.
1032626	1. A light yellow viscous oily antithiamine compound designated as Compound X was isolated from rice-bran and it was composed of three components--glucose, a yellow viscous oily substance (Fraction A) and a reddish brown amorphous substance (Fraction B). 2. 1 mg of Compound X inactivated 3.5 microgram of thiamine hydrochloride whereas 1 mg of Fraction A inactivated 26.5 microgram of thiamine hydrochloride. Fraction B had no antithiamine activity. 3. Fraction A was partially characterised as benzene nucleus with ortho dihydroxyl groups, one methyl group and a side chain containing hydroxyl and carboxylic acid groups. 4. Compound X as well as Fraction A inhibited the utilisation of ribose-5-phosphate by TPP-TK system of human erythrocyte hemolysate and the growth of Staphylococcus aureus was retarded by these compounds.
10331306	An involvement of rice allergy in development and exacerbation of recalcitrant atopic dermatitis (AD) has been suggested in some cases, and it has been also known that elimination diet of rice results in improvement of AD and reduction of the doses of steroid ointment and anti-allergic drugs used for the treatment. We prepared the hypoallergenic rice grain, AFT-R 1 (Allergen-free Technology Lab. Inc.-Rice 1), with alkali treatment from the rice material, Koshihikari, which is popular in Japan. Its usefulness was evaluated clinically and serologically. The serological study with IgE-ELISA showed that the major allergic protein were remarkably reduced to less than 1/6400 of them in the AFT-R 1. Then it was applied to the clinical trial, and evaluated as useful by the clinical effect in 14 (93%) out of 15 patients, who were diagnosed to have rice allergy by the elimination (in 15 case) and ingestion (in 12 cases) of the regular rice. The serum taken from the patient, whom the AFT-R 1 was evaluated as unuseful in the clinical trial, was shown to have IgE antibodies reactive to the remaining protein in AFT-R 1 by IgE-ELISA, and the 60 kd protein band was detected as an IgE-binding component of AFT-R 1 by IgE-immunoblotting with the same serum. This 60 kd rice protein was identified as ADP (UDP)-glucose-starch glycosyl transferase (EC: 2.4.1.21) by N-terminal amino acid analysis. These results indicated that AFT-R 1 is very useful as a substitute of rice in many AD patients with rice allergy, although IgE-binding component such as the 60 kd protein is remaining in one.
10331308	Rice is the main food taken every day in Japan. We introduced hypoallergenic rice (95% of albumin and globulin were taken off by hyperpressure method) for 4 weeks to 7 atopic dermatitis patients (m 3, f 4), 11 mo-4 y 8 m (mean 3 y 2 m) who showed the RAST score of rice 1 or more. Stimulation Index by CAST (cellular antigen stimulation test) were compared before and after taking the rice (50-100 g). By albumin (0.1-100 micrograms/ml), maximum decreases of S.I. were 22.4-96.5% (mean 70.9) and by globulin maximum decreases of S.I. were (0.1-100 micrograms/ml) 33.3-97.0% (mean 72.9). In all the patients the skin conditions were improved.
10333591	Isoamylase (EC 3.2.1.68) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) was efficiently purified within a day to homogeneity, as confirmed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), from developing endosperm by sequential use of Q Sepharose HP anion-exchange chromatography, ammonium sulfate fractionation, and TSKgel G4000SWXL and G3000SWXL gel filtration chromatography. Although the protein exhibited a molecular size of ca. 83 kDa on SDS-PAGE, the apparent size of the native enzyme was approximately 340 and 490 kDa on TSKgel G3000SWXL and G4000SWXL gel filtration chromatograms, respectively, suggesting that rice isoamylase exists in a homo-tetramer to homo-hexamer form in developing endosperm. The purified rice isoamylase was able to debranch glycogen, phytoglycogen and amylopectin but could not attack pullulan. The optimum pH and temperature for isoamylase activity were found to be pH 6.5 to 7.0 and 30 degrees C, respectively. The enzyme activity was completely inhibited by HgCl2 and p-chloromercuribenzoate at 1 mM. These results indicate that rice isoamylase possesses properties which are distinct from those reported for bacterial isoamylase. Complementary-DNA clones for rice endosperm isoamylase were isolated with a polymerase-chain-reaction product as probe which was generated by primers designed from nucleotides conserved in cDNA for maize Sugary-1 isoamylase (M.G. James et al., 1995. Plant Cell 7: 417-429) and a Pseudomonas amyloderamosa gene encoding isoamylase (A. Amemura et al. 1988, J Biol Chem 263: 9271-9275). The nucleotide sequence and deduced amino acid sequence of the longest clone showed a high similarity to those of maize Surgary-1 isoamylase, but a lesser similarity to those of Pseudomonas amyloderamosa isoamylase. Southern blot analysis and gene mapping analysis indicated that the isoamylase gene exists as a single copy in the rice genome and is located on chromosome 8 of cv. Nipponbare which belongs to the Japonica rice group. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that isoamylases from maize and rice are more closely related to a number of glgX gene products of the blue green alga Synechocystis and various bacteria than to isoamylases from Pseudomonas and Flavobacterium. Hence, it is proposed that glgX proteins are classified as isoamylase-type debranching enzymes. Our tree also showed that all starch- and glycogen-debranching enzymes from plants and bacteria tested can be classified into two distinct types, an isoamylase-type and a pullulanase-type.
10334220	To determine if there is an anatomic basis for the assumption that loose, "rogue" otoliths presumed to arise from the utricular macula and theorized to cause benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) by impinging on semicircular canal ampullae could be returned to their original site by a series of changes in the position of the head called particle repositioning maneuvers (PRMs). Further, if such otolith movement were possible, once they were replaced into the utricle, would they adhere to the utricular macula? Kodachrome photographs of 2-mm-thick macrosections of human temporal bones were available for evaluation. The bones were sectioned in horizontal, coronal, and sagittal planes. Rice grains were placed on the photographs of the cross-sections to demonstrate the possible paths taken by loose otoliths under the influence of gravity in different positions of the head. A study of cross-sections of the temporal bone shows that loose macular otoliths after PRMs would tend to fall into the lumen of the utricle. Once the patient assumes the erect position, however, repositioned otoliths would tend to fall into the near or utriculopetal side of the cupula of the posterior semicircular canal, which opens directly into the inferior portion of the utricle, and could cause labyrinth stimulation and BPPV by the same mechanism of misplaced otoliths on the opposite or far side of the cupula. Loose otoliths in the utricle could also stimulate the horizontal ampullae. PRMs do not remove or fix otoliths in any specific site in the labyrinth. Repositioning of loose otoliths onto the original site in the macula of the utricle, which lies superiorly in the vestibule, could not be accomplished by any of the repositioning maneuvers. If otoliths were to be repositioned on the utricular macula, there is no evidence that the otoliths would adhere to the macula when the patient assumes the erect position. The good results obtained by physiotherapeutic procedures suggest that some other mechanism than repositioning of otoliths is responsible for the relief of BPPV.
10339523	Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), rice (Oryza sativa L.), and maize (Zea mays L.) provide about two-thirds of all energy in human diets, and four major cropping systems in which these cereals are grown represent the foundation of human food supply. Yield per unit time and land has increased markedly during the past 30 years in these systems, a result of intensified crop management involving improved germplasm, greater inputs of fertilizer, production of two or more crops per year on the same piece of land, and irrigation. Meeting future food demand while minimizing expansion of cultivated area primarily will depend on continued intensification of these same four systems. The manner in which further intensification is achieved, however, will differ markedly from the past because the exploitable gap between average farm yields and genetic yield potential is closing. At present, the rate of increase in yield potential is much less than the expected increase in demand. Hence, average farm yields must reach 70-80% of the yield potential ceiling within 30 years in each of these major cereal systems. Achieving consistent production at these high levels without causing environmental damage requires improvements in soil quality and precise management of all production factors in time and space. The scope of the scientific challenge related to these objectives is discussed. It is concluded that major scientific breakthroughs must occur in basic plant physiology, ecophysiology, agroecology, and soil science to achieve the ecological intensification that is needed to meet the expected increase in food demand.
10339830	Two variants have been isolated from the wild-type Azospirillum lipoferum strain 4B. The first variant, 4V(I), spontaneously emerged from the wild-type at frequencies in the order of 10(-4) to 10(-3) per cell generation. Compared to the wild-type, the 4V(I) variant gained (production of a carotenoid-like pigment, assimilation of certain carbohydrates) and lost (swimming motility, reduction of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride, acid production from certain sugars) apparently unrelated phenotypic characteristics. Only from the 4V(I) variant, a second atypical stable form, variant 4V(II), which acquired laccase activity and ability to produce melanin, appeared under very specific conditions, namely growth at extremely low oxygen concentrations. Neither of the variants was able to revert to the parental phenotype. The results suggest that atypical non-motile laccase-positive isolates of A. lipoferum that are found in the rice rhizosphere originate from wild-type (motile, laccase-negative) cells via a two-step phenotypic switching event, a non-motile laccase-negative variant being an intermediate phase.
10340665	A total of 138 raw cow's and 57 raw ewe's milk samples; 80 pasteurized cow's milk samples; 39 Anthotyros cheese, 36 Manouri cheese, and 23 Feta cheese samples; and 15 rice pudding samples were examined for the presence and any countable population of Aeromonas species. Twenty-two (15.9%) of the 138 cow's milk samples analyzed were contaminated with A. hydrophila. In 13 of these samples, populations of 3.0x10(2) to 5.0x10(3) CFU/ml were counted in starch ampicillin agar (SAA). Eighteen cow's milk samples (13.0%) were contaminated with A. caviae, and in eight of these samples, populations of 2.0x10(2) to 3.0x10(3) CFU/ml were counted in SAA. Five cow's milk samples (3.6%) were contaminated with A. sobria, and in two of these samples, populations of 2.5x10(3) and 5.0x10(3) CFU/ml were counted in SAA. Eleven cow's milk samples (7.9%) were contaminated with other Aeromonas spp. not classified. Eight (14.0%) of the 57 ewe's milk samples analyzed were contaminated with A. hydrophila. In these samples, populations of 5.0x10(2) to 5.0x10(3) CFU/ml were counted in SAA. Six ewe's milk samples (10.5%) were contaminated with A. caviae, and populations of 1.5x10(2) to 1.0x10(3) CFU/ ml were counted in SAA. Two ewe's milk samples (3.5%) were contaminated with A. sobria, and populations counted in SAA were 5.0x10(2) and 1.0x10(3) CFU/ml. Four samples (7.0%) were contaminated with other Aeromonas spp. not classified. A. hydrophila was recovered in 4 (10.2%) and 3 (8.3%) of the Anthotyros and Manouri cheese samples analyzed, respectively, but no countable populations were noted in SAA. None of the pasteurized milk, Feta cheese, and rice pudding samples yielded Aeromonas spp. The results of this work indicate that motile Aeromonas are common in raw milk in Greece. Also, the presence of A. hydrophila in the whey cheeses Anthotyros and Manouri indicates that postprocessing contaminations of these products with motile Aeromonas may occur during production.
10342236	The effect of drastic undernutrition was studied in Bos indicus cows. Four nonlactating cows (body weight = 208 kg) fitted with ruminal cannulas were used in a crossover design. They received, in two 1-mo periods, a diet of 80% rice straw and 20% cotton-seed meal fed either at energy maintenance [3.91 kg of dry matter (DM)/d] or at one-third of this intake (1.30 kg of DM/d). The variation in digestibility was studied in relation to particle retention time and microbial events. Organic matter digestibility decreased with underfeeding (64.5 and 53.7%, respectively, at high and low intakes) without modification of mean ruminal or total tract retention times. This lower digestibility can be related to a decrease in protozoal population in the rumen; however, other characteristics of microbial activity did not vary, such as in situ DM degradability (41.9 and 43.3%, respectively, at high and low intakes) and ruminal soluble Ca concentration, a factor involved in the attachment of microorganisms to feed particles. Mean size of ruminal particles was not modified, although more time spent chewing was observed at the low intake (165 and 221 min/kg of DM intake, respectively, at high and low intakes). This experiment confirms that, at intakes below maintenance, digestibility can decrease when feed intake is restricted, contrary to the general view described in the literature.
10344196	Expression patterns of chitinase transcripts induced by N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor were analyzed by northern blot hybridization in order to reveal a signal transduction pathway leading to the activation of class I chitinase genes (Cht-1 and Cht-3), which may play an important role in producing N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor. The transcription level of both genes was enhanced in response to N-acetylchitooligosaccharides larger than pentaose at subnanomolar concentrations. These structure and dose dependencies were consistent not only with those for a 75 kDa high-affinity binding protein for N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor in the plasma membrane, but also with other series of cellular responses including phytoalexin production and the expression of elicitor-responsive genes (EL2, EL3). Therefore, the elicitor signal to evoke these cellular responses including the activation of the chitinase genes could be common and transmitted into cells through the 75 kDa protein. However, the signal transduction pathway for the activation of the chitinase gene appeared to diverge from those for the other elicitor-responsive genes shortly after the signal perception. It was shown that the induction of chitinase expression by N-acetylchitooligosaccharide would require protein phosphorylation, but not de novo protein synthesis. The oxidative burst was demonstrated not to be necessary for transcriptional induction of the all four elicitor-responsive genes (Cht, PAL, EL2, EL3) by N-acetylchitooligosaccharide.
10346032	The quality of poverty alleviation programmes relies heavily on appropriate targeting and priority setting. Major problems in assessing poverty include identification of the indicators of poverty and the methods used for its assessment. Nutritional status, expressed by anthropometric indices, has been proposed as a poverty indicator because of its validity, objectivity, reliability and feasibility. This study was conducted to explore the application of remote sensing to poverty mapping based on nutritional status at the community level. Relationships between the nutritional status within a community and the ecological characteristics of the community were investigated. Multiple linear regression tests were executed, and the resultant equations were tested for their validity in predicting communities with poor nutritional status. Among geographical and ecological indicators used, distance to the nearest market, main soil type, rice field area, and perennial cultivation area were found to be most useful predictors for the ranking of the communities by nutritional status. Among non-ecological determinants, food consumption, health service status and living conditions were also found as predictors. The highest correlation was found if total population was also taken into account in the regression model (R2 = 0.69; p < 0.0001). In the assessment of the sensitivity and specificity of the eight models studied, 'undernutrition' was defined as a condition where a community belongs in the first quartile for nutritional status (highest prevalence of undernutrition), and the baseline nutritional survey was considered as a standard method for final diagnosis. Most models which included only ecological factors in the equations had lower sensitivity and specificity than models which included all determinant factors in the equations. All models which took into account the total population had higher sensitivity and specificity than those that did not take total population into account. The best model of those that took into account only the geographical and ecological characteristics of the community's living environment had similar sensitivity and specificity (80% and 94.1%, respectively) as the models that considered non-geographical and non-ecological variables in addition to geographical and ecological variables. In the case of West Sumatra, only four ecological and geographic characteristics were sufficient to predict poverty in village. Since these characteristics could be surveyed by remote sensing, it may well be possible to use remote sensing for a rapid method for poverty mapping.
10347011	Soil temperatures in Italian rice fields typically range between about 15 and 30 degrees C. A change in the incubation temperature of anoxic methanogenic soil slurry from 30 degrees C to 15 degrees C typically resulted in a decrease in the CH4 production rate, a decrease in the steady-state H2 partial pressure, and a transient accumulation of acetate. Previous experiments have shown that these changes were due to an alteration of the carbon and electron flow in the methanogenic degradation pathway of organic matter caused by the temperature shift (K. J. Chin and R. Conrad, FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 18:85-102, 1995). To investigate how temperature affects the structure of the methanogenic archaeal community, total DNA was extracted from soil slurries incubated at 30 and 15 degrees C. The archaeal small-subunit (SSU) rRNA-encoding genes (rDNA) of these environmental DNA samples were amplified by PCR with an archaeal-specific primer system and used for the generation of clone libraries. Representative rDNA clones (n = 90) were characterized by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and sequence analysis. T-RFLP analysis produced for the clones terminally labeled fragments with a characteristic length of mostly 185, 284, or 392 bp. Sequence analysis allowed determination of the phylogenetic affiliation of the individual clones with their characteristic T-RFLP fragment lengths and showed that the archaeal community of the anoxic rice soil slurry was dominated by members of the families Methanosarcinaceae (185 bp) and Methanosaetaceae (284 bp), the kingdom Crenarchaeota (185 or 284 bp), and a novel, deeply branching lineage of the (probably methanogenic) kingdom Euryarchaeota (392 bp) that has recently been detected on rice roots (R. Grosskopf, S. Stubner, and W. Liesack, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64:4983-4989, 1998). The structure of the archaeal community changed when the temperature was shifted from 30 degrees C to 15 degrees C. Before the temperature shift, the clones (n = 30) retrieved from the community were dominated by Crenarchaeota (70%), "novel Euryarchaeota" (23%), and Methanosarcinacaeae (7%). Further incubation at 30 degrees C (n = 30 clones) resulted in a relative increase in members of the Methanosarcinaceae (77%), whereas further incubation at 15 degrees C (n = 30 clones) resulted in a much more diverse community consisting of 33% Methanosarcinaceae, 23% Crenarchaeota, 20% Methanosaetaceae, and 17% novel Euryarchaeota. The appearance of Methanosaetaceae at 15 degrees C was conspicuous. These results demonstrate that the structure of the archaeal community in anoxic rice field soil changed with time and incubation temperature.
10347012	Degradation of glucose has been implicated in acetate production in rice field soil, but the abundance of glucose, the temporal change of glucose turnover, and the relationship between glucose and acetate catabolism are not well understood. We therefore measured the pool sizes of glucose and acetate in rice field soil and investigated the turnover of [U-14C]glucose and [2-14C]acetate. Acetate accumulated up to about 2 mM during days 5 to 10 after flooding of the soil. Subsequently, methanogenesis started and the acetate concentration decreased to about 100 to 200 &mgr;M. Glucose always made up >50% of the total monosaccharides detected. Glucose concentrations decreased during the first 10 days from 90 &mgr;M initially to about 3 &mgr;M after 40 days of incubation. With the exception at day 0 when glucose consumption was slow, the glucose turnover time was in the range of minutes, while the acetate turnover time was in the range of hours. Anaerobic degradation of [U-14C]glucose released [14C]acetate and 14CO2 as the main products, with [14C]acetate being released faster than 14CO2. The products of [2-14C]acetate metabolism, on the other hand, were 14CO2 during the reduction phase of soil incubation (days 0 to 15) and 14CH4 during the methanogenic phase (after day 15). Except during the accumulation period of acetate (days 5 to 10), approximately 50 to 80% of the acetate consumed was produced from glucose catabolism. However, during the accumulation period of acetate, the rate of acetate production from glucose greatly exceeded that of acetate consumption. Under steady-state conditions, up to 67% of the CH4 was produced from acetate, of which up to 56% was produced from glucose degradation.
10347699	The information about dietary fiber presents controversies in many research areas such as in nomenclature, related illnesses, recommended quantities and terminology, mainly because of lack of analytical data. Different needs and interests for the dietary fiber composition of foods and forages have led to a proliferation of methods for its analysis. This research, a further adaptation of the enzymatic method of Asp et al. (1983) for its application is proposed for rice and wheat bran, byproducts of agroindustries in the southern region of Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil). The inclusion of Amyloglucosidase in the proposed methodology contributed to the decrease in the content of residual starch at the end of the experiment, like Prosky et al (1992). To increase the efficiency of the enzyme system in this type of samples, other changes were made with respect to incubation time and proteolytic enzyme concentration. In the final adaptation, a decrease of 51.33% of the starch content was observed in rice bran (RB) and of 52.93% in wheat bran (WB). This decrease was also verified in the model system (MS) (52.08%), which demonstrates the adequacy of the proposed adaptation. With respect to the residual protein, it was verified that the measures adopted provoked a reduction of 42.15% (RB), 52.19% (WB) and 42.11% (MS) as compared to the original method. Then the proposed conditions has been shown to be efficient in decreasing the level of interference (indigestible starch and protein) in the quantification of dietary fiber in rice and wheat bran.
10347814	Gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT-EC 2.3.2.2) activity and glutathione (GSH) content were measured in livers of female weanling Wistar rats (N = 5-18), submitted to rice-and-bean diets (13 and 6% w/w protein), both supplemented or not with DL-methionine (0.5 and 0.23 g/100 g dry diet, respectively). After 28 days, the rats on the rice-and-bean diets showed significantly higher levels (four times higher) of liver GGT activity and a concomitant 50% lower concentration of liver GSH in comparison with control groups feeding on casein. The addition of DL-methionine to rice-and-bean diets significantly increased the liver GSH content, which reached levels 50% higher than those found in animals on casein diets. The increase in GSH was accompanied by a decrease in liver GGT activity, which did not reach levels as low as those observed in the control groups. No significant correlation could be established between GGT and GSH changes under the present experimental conditions. Linear correlation analysis only revealed that in animals submitted to unsupplemented rice-and-bean diets GSH concentration was positively associated (P < 0.05) with weight gain, food intake and food efficiency. GGT, however, was negatively correlated (P < 0.05) with food intake only, and exclusively for supplemented rice-and-bean diets. The high levels of GGT activity observed in the present study for rats receiving a rice-and-bean mixture could be a result of the poor quality of these diets associated with their deficiency in sulfur amino acids. The results also suggest that diet supplementation with methionine could be important in the reduction of the deleterious effects of GSH depletion by restoring the intracellular concentration of this tripeptide.
10348817	When rice is incorporated into oral rehydration therapy for patients with secretory diarrhea, clinical outcomes improve. We have shown that a factor purified from boiled rice (RF) blocks the secretory response of intestinal crypt cells to adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP). Now we report that the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) chloride channel is the cellular target for this rice inhibitor. We used RF, the same previously described extract prepared from boiled rice, to assess chloride channel activation in vitro, measuring (1) cell volume regulation of guinea pig intestinal crypt epithelial cell suspensions using standard Coulter counter technology, (2) transepithelial chloride current in monolayers of T84 cells mounted in Ussing chambers, and (3) whole-cell and single-channel currents using the patch-clamp technique in cells transfected to express CFTR. RF inhibited activation by cAMP of CFTR chloride channels in all experimental preparations; RF did not block volume-stimulated Cl- secretion, suggesting that its effect might be specific for CFTR chloride channels. RF inhibited transepithelial cAMP-stimulated Cl- current in T84 cells and inhibited forskolin (i.e., cAMP)-induced current in cells transfected with CFTR. Excised patch and single-channel patch-clamp recordings supported the view that the response was a direct effect on CFTR rather than on cAMP signal transduction. RF exerts a specific inhibitory effect on CFTR chloride channels, blocking activation from the luminal surface of the cell and reversing established activation. Many major diarrheal states are based on cAMP-induced CFTR activation, leading to excessive gut secretion; our findings could have clinical relevance.
10350630	The gene encoding the starch debranching enzyme limit dextrinase, LD, from barley (Hordeum vulgare), was isolated from a genomic phage library using a barley cDNA clone as probe. The gene encodes a protein of 904 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 98.6 kDa. This is in agreement with a value of 105 kDa estimated by SDS-PAGE. The coding sequence is interrupted by 26 introns varying in length from 93 bp to 825 bp. The 27 exons vary in length from 53 bp to 197 bp. Southern blot analysis shows that the limit dextrinase gene is present as a single copy in the barley genome. Gene expression is high during germination and the steady state transcription level reaches a maximum at day 5 of germination. The deduced amino acid sequence corresponds to the protein sequence of limit dextrinase purified from germinating malt, as determined by automated N-terminal sequencing of tryptic fragments coupled with matrix assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry. The sequenced peptide fragments cover 70% of the entire protein sequence, which shows 62% and 77% identity to that of starch debranching enzymes from spinach and rice and 37% identity to Klebsiella pullulanase. Sequence alignment supports the multidomain architecture and identifies both secondary structure elements of the catalytic (beta/alpha)8-barrel substrate, catalytic residues, and specificity associated motifs characteristic of members of the glycoside hydrolase family 13 which cleave alpha-1,6-glucosidic bonds. A remarkable distribution of the secondary structure elements to individual exons is observed.
10350744	This chapter is intended to help primary care physicians and other providers of health care to adolescents to become more knowledgeable about the management of soft tissue injuries. Discussion includes the pathophysiology of injury, the assessment of the degree of injury, and the rationale for the RICE (rest, ice, compression, and elevation) method of acute treatment. Principles of rehabilitation are also discussed along with objective criteria that can be used to make return-to-play decisions following a soft tissue injury.
10353221	The subcellular localization of plant farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPPS) was examined. Immunocytochemical staining using anti-FPPS1 antibody followed by electron microscopy showed that FPPS1 was localized to chloroplasts of rice mesophyll cells. Subcellular fractions from wheat leaves were examined by immunoblot analysis. FPPS was detected in the chloroplast fraction in wheat, and was protected from proteolysis following trypsin treatment of chloroplasts. FPPS was also detected in the chloroplast fraction of a dicot plant, tobacco.
10354579	Studies of the model plant Arabidopsis are providing knowledge about the function of plant genes with an unprecedented clarity and quantity. A major challenge now is to apply this new information to the improvement of crop plants in a systematic manner. Sequence comparisons between Arabidopsis and rice can define potential functional relationships, and conserved gene order among cereals can then be used to ascribe functions to genes in many cereals.
10354818	This study was carried out to examine the effect of methanol extract of Oryza sativa L. (Dong-Jin in Korean, abbreviate as Os-DJ hereafter) on anaphylaxis. Os-DJ (10(-5) to 1 g/kg) dose-dependently inhibited systemic anaphylaxis induced by compound 48/80 in rats. When Os-DJ was pretreated at concentration ranging from 10(-5) to 1 g/kg, the serum histamine levels were reduced in a dose-dependent manner. Os-DJ (1 g/kg) also significantly inhibited local anaphylaxis activated by anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP) IgE. Moreover, Os-DJ dose-dependently inhibited the histamine release from rat peritoneal mast cells (RPMC) activated by compound 48/80 or anti-DNP IgE. These results indicate that Os-DJ possess antianaphylactic activity by inhibition of histamine release from mast cells in vivo and in vitro.
10355850	The effect of a mixture of organisms (a probiotic mixture) comprising Bacillus, Lactobacillus, Streptococcus, Clostridium, Saccharomyces, and Candida (10(7-8) colony-forming units/g rice bran of each component) on delta6-desaturase activity in liver microsomes was compared with those of Lactobacillus acidophilus and Streptococcus faecalis. There were four treatment groups. Each group of these rats received rice bran (control), the mixture of organisms, L. acidophilus, or S. faecalis (30 g/kg) along with a fat- and cholesterol-enriched diet for 4 wk. The serum total cholesterol concentration of the group fed the mixture of organisms was reduced by 15-33% compared with the other groups at the end of the 4-wk feeding period (P<0.05). The proportion of palmitic acid in the serum phosphatidylcholine (PC) for the control group was significantly higher than those of the other groups. The proportion of arachidonic acid in the serum PC for the mixed-organism group was also significantly higher than those of the other groups. The proportion of arachidonic acid in the liver PC for the mixed-organism group was significantly higher than those of the control and S. faecalis groups. The ratio of arachidonic acid/linoleic acid was significantly higher in the liver PC of rats fed the mixed organisms compared with the control group (P<0.05). The delta6-desaturase activity in the liver microsomal fraction of the mixed-organism group was significantly higher than those of the other groups. The delta6-desaturase activity correlated positively with the ratio of arachidonic acid/linoleic acid of liver PC, the correlation coefficient (r) being 0.819 (P<0.001). The results indicate that the effect of the mixture of organisms was to increase delta6-desaturase activity and serum arachidonic acid and decrease cholesterol compared to the other organisms and control, but the mechanism whereby the enzyme activity was related to serum cholesterol does not appear to have been explored.
10356595	We asked whether under-reporting of energy and cigarette smoking were associated with choice of foods and dietary composition amongst subjects with hypercholesterolaemia who had received dietary instruction to lower serum cholesterol. Dietary intake was assessed with a 4-day weighed food record in 205 women and 141 men, aged 20-73 years, being treated at a lipid clinic (tertiary referral centre). Under-reporting was assessed by calculating the ratio of energy intake (EI) to estimated basal metabolic rate (BMR). The median EI/BMR was 1.1 for both men and women. EI/BMR did not differ according to smoking status, but correlated negatively with body mass index (Spearman's rho = -0.32, P = 0.0001). EI/BMR was inversely associated with energy-adjusted intakes of potatoes, vegetables, fish and low-fat meats, and positively associated with intakes of nuts, potato crisps, chocolate, sour and ice cream, oils, fatty meat spreads, cakes and biscuits, and with alcohol. Thus, low EI/BMR was associated with increased energy-adjusted intakes of protein, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, iron and cholesterol and with decreased intakes of sugar, poly- and monounsaturated fats and vitamin E (all P < 0.05). Cigarette smokers had a higher energy percentage (E%) from fat than non-smokers (29 +/- 6 vs. 26 +/- 6), a lower E% from carbohydrates (50 +/- 7 vs. 54 +/- 7) and a lower intake of vitamin C (11 +/- 7 vs. 16 +/- 9 mg MJ-1; all P = 0.0001), reflecting an increased intake of fatty meats and a decreased intake of skimmed cheese, fruit, rice and pasta, and cakes and biscuits (all P < 0.05). Weighed dietary records reflected a 'healthier' intake of fat, protein, sugar, alcohol and some micronutrients amongst under-reporters, suggesting that self-reported dietary intakes are biased in patients with hypercholesterolaemia. Lack of responsiveness to the diet should not be assumed when dietary data are based on self-report. Smokers report a higher intake of fat and lower intake of vitamin C than non-smokers, even after dietary counsel, and may require more intensive interventions to optimize the diet.
10358025	The lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Chlamydia trachomatis L2 was isolated from tissue culture-grown elementary bodies using a modified phenol/water procedure followed by extraction with phenol/chloroform/light petroleum. From a total of 5 x 10(4) cm2 of infected monolayers, 22.3 mg of LPS were obtained. Compositional analysis indicated the presence of 3-deoxy-D-manno-oct-2-ulopyranosonic acid (Kdo), GlcN, phosphorus, and fatty acids in a molar ratio of 2.8:2:2.1:4.5. Matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization mass spectrometry performed on the de-O-acylated LPS gave a major molecular ion peak at m/z 1781.1 corresponding to a molecule of 3 Kdo, 2 GlcN, 2 phosphates, and two 3-hydroxyeicosanoic acid residues. The structure of deacylated LPS obtained after successive treatment with hydrazine and potassium hydroxide was determined by 600 MHz NMR spectroscopy as Kdoalpha2-->8Kdoalpha2-->4Kdoalpha2-->6D-GlcpNbeta1 -->6D-GlcpNalpha 1,4'-bisphosphate. These data, together with those published recently on the acylation pattern of chlamydial lipid A (Qureshi, N., Kaltashov, I., Walker, K., Doroshenko, V., Cotter, R. J., Takayama, K, Sievert, T. R., Rice, P. A., Lin, J.-S. L., and Golenbock, D. T. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 10594-10600) allow us to present for the first time the complete structure of a major molecular species of a chlamydial LPS.
10359080	We have cloned a novel nuclear gene for a ribosomal protein of rice and Arabidopsis that is like the bacterial ribosomal protein S9. To determine the subcellular localization of the gene product, we fused the N-terminal region and green fluorescent protein and expressed it transiently in rice seedlings. Localized fluorescence was detectable only in chloroplasts, indicating that this nuclear gene encodes chloroplast ribosomal protein S9. The N-terminal region of rice ribosomal protein S9 was found to have a high sequence similarity to the transit peptide region of the rice chloroplast ribosomal protein L12, suggesting that these transit peptides have a common lineage.
10359797	We used 22 fragments corresponding to the reverse transcriptase domain of copia-like retrotransposons as representatives to study the organization and distribution of these elements in the rice genome. The loci detected by these 22 fragments were assigned to 47 locations in the molecular-linkage map involving all 12 chromosomes. The distributional features of copia-like retrotransposons found in the rice genome indicated that (i) the loci detected were located mainly in one arm of each chromosome; (ii) one fragment usually detected several loci that were mapped to similar locations of different chromosomes; (iii) retrotransposons sharing high identity in nucleotide sequences were usually assigned to similar locations of the chromosomes; and (iv) concurrences of multiple loci, detected by different fragments, in similar locations or stretches of different chromosomes were common in the rice genome. We also determined that the copy number of copia-like retrotransposons in rice genome may be as low as approximately 100 per haploid genome. The restricted distribution, along with low copy number, suggested that copia-like retrotransposons in rice were relatively inactive during evolution compared with those in other plants. The distributional features of the copia-like retrotransposons suggested the existence of possible lineages among the rice chromosomes, which in turn suggested that chromosome duplication and diversification may be a mechanism for the origin and evolution of the rice chromosomes. The information provided by fine mapping of the retroelements in the genetic linkage map may also be useful for gene tagging and molecular cloning.
10360248	This study was carried out to evaluate the effects of tea catechins on fecal contents and metabolites of elderly people who were on a diet of solid food. The subjects were 35 residents in a long-term care facility who were all on the same diet, consisting of rice gruel and minced food. Tea catechins (300 mg), which were divided into 3 doses a day, were a meal supplement every day for 6 weeks. Fecal specimens were collected by the nursing staff, and their moisture content, pH, ammonia, sulfide, and oxidation-reduction potential (ORP) were determined before, during, and after the administration of tea catechins. In a comparison of values before the administration, all these fecal parameters decreased significantly during the tea catechin administration. After termination of the administration, these data tended to return toward the levels before administration. The reduction of such fecal parameters as moisture, pH, ammonia, sulfide, and ORP by tea catechin administration indicated very favorable improvements of the subjects' bowel conditions.
10362227	Quinolinic acid, alpha-picolinic acid, fusaric acid, and 2,6-pyridinedicarboxylic acid enhanced the Fenton reaction in phosphate buffer, respectively. The enhancement by quinolinic acid, alpha-picolinic acid, fusaric acid, and 2,6-pyridinedicarboxylic acid of the Fenton reaction may be partly related to their respective actions in the biological systems such as a neurotoxic effect (quinolinic acid), a marked growth-inhibitory action on rice seeding (alpha-picolinic acid and fusaric acid), and an antiseptic (2,6-pyridinedicarboxylic acid). The ultraviolet-visible absorption spectrum of the mixture of alpha-picolinic acid with ferrous ion showed a characteristic visible absorbance band with a lambda(max) at 443 nm, suggesting that alpha-picolinic acid chelate of Fe2+ ion forms in the solution. Similar characteristic visible absorbance band was also observed for the mixture of Fe2+ ion with quinolinic acid (or fusaric acid, or 2,6-pyridinedicarboxylic acid). The chelation seems to be related to the enhancement by quinolinic acid, alpha-picolinic acid, fusaric acid, and 2,6-pyridinedicarboxylic acid of the Fenton reaction. alpha-Picolinic acid was reported to be a toxic substance isolated from the culture liquids of blast mould (Piricularia oryzae CAVARA). On the other hand, it has also been known that chlorogenic acid protects rice plants from the blast disease. The chlorogenic acid inhibited the formation of the hydroxyl radical in the reaction mixture of alpha-picolinic acid, FeSO4(NH4)2SO4, and H2O2. Thus the inhibition may be a possible mechanism of the protective action of the chlorogenic acid against the blast disease.
10363365	The early nodulin ENOD40 has been proposed as playing a pivotal role in the organogenesis of legume root nodules. We have isolated the ENOD40 gene homologues ObENOD40 and OsENOD40 from the wild and cultivated rice genotypes Oryza brachyantha and Oryza sativa, respectively. Rice ENOD40s contain a sequence at the 5' end (region I) for encoding an oligopeptide that is highly conserved in all legume ENOD40s. Furthermore, at the 3' end (region II), the nucleotide sequence of rice ENOD40s exhibited a considerable homology to the corresponding region in legume ENOD40s. Among various organs of the rice plant, expression of OsENOD40 was detected only in stems. In situ hybridization studies revealed that, within the stem, transcription of OsENOD40 is confined to parenchyma cells surrounding the protoxylem during the early stages of development of lateral vascular bundles that conjoin an emerging leaf. Expression pattern of OsENOD40 promoter-GUS fusion in nodules developed on transgenic hairy roots of soybean was also found to be restricted to peripheral cells of nodule vascular bundles, thus evidencing that rice ENOD40 promoter activity is essentially the same as that of soybean ENOD40. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that OsENOD40 and legume ENOD40s share common, if not identical, functions in differentiation and/or function of vascular bundles.
10363373	The cycloidea (cyc) and teosinte branched 1 (tb1) genes code for structurally related proteins implicated in the evolution of key morphological traits. However, the biochemical function of CYC and TB1 proteins remains to be demonstrated. To address this problem, we have analysed the predicted secondary structure of regions conserved between CYC and TB1, and looked for related proteins of known function. One of the conserved regions is predicted to form a non-canonical basic-Helix-Loop-Helix (bHLP) structure. This domain is also found in two rice DNA-binding proteins, PCF1 and PCF2, where it has been shown to be involved in DNA-binding and dimerization. This indicates that the conserved domain most probably defines a new family of transcription factors, which we have termed the TCP family after its first characterised members (TB1, CYC and PCFs). Other plant proteins of unknown function also belong to this family. We have studied two of these in Arabidopsis and have shown that they are expressed in rapidly growing floral primordia. This, together with the proposed involvement of cyc and tb1 in influencing meristem growth, suggests that many members of the TCP family may affect cell division. Some of these genes may have been recruited during plant evolution to generate new morphological traits.
10364308	Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection alters the phosphorylation of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNAP II), resulting in the depletion of the hypophosphorylated and hyperphosphorylated forms of this polypeptide (known as IIa and IIo, respectively) and induction of a novel, alternatively phosphorylated form (designated IIi). We previously showed that the HSV-1 immediate-early protein ICP22 is involved in this phenomenon, since induction of IIi and depletion of IIa are deficient in cells infected with 22/n199, an HSV-1 ICP22 nonsense mutant (S. A. Rice, M. C. Long, V. Lam, P. A. Schaffer, and C. A. Spencer, J. Virol. 69:5550-5559, 1995). However, depletion of IIo still occurs in 22/n199-infected cells. This suggests either that another viral gene product affects the RNAP II large subunit or that the truncated ICP22 polypeptide encoded by 22/n199 retains residual activity which leads to IIo depletion. To distinguish between these possibilities, we engineered an HSV-1 ICP22 null mutant, d22-lacZ, and compared it to 22/n199. The two mutants are indistinguishable in their effects on the RNAP II large subunit, suggesting that an additional viral gene product is involved in altering RNAP II. Two candidates are UL13, a protein kinase which has been implicated in ICP22 phosphorylation, and the virion host shutoff (Vhs) factor, the expression of which is positively regulated by ICP22 and UL13. To test whether UL13 is involved, a UL13-deficient viral mutant, d13-lacZ, was engineered. This mutant was defective in IIi induction and IIa depletion, displaying a phenotype very similar to that of d22-lacZ. In contrast, a Vhs mutant had effects that were indistinguishable from wild-type HSV-1. Therefore, UL13 but not the Vhs function plays a role in modifying the RNAP II large subunit. To study the potential role of UL13 in viral transcription, we carried out nuclear run-on transcription analyses in infected human embryonic lung cells. Infections with either UL13 or ICP22 mutants led to significantly reduced amounts of viral genome transcription at late times after infection. Together, our results suggest that ICP22 and UL13 are involved in a common pathway that alters RNAP II phosphorylation and that in some cell lines this change promotes viral late transcription.
10364408	We identified in deepwater rice (Oryza sativa L.) a gene encoding a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like transmembrane protein kinase, OsTMK (O. sativa transmembrane kinase). The transcript levels of OsTMK increased in the rice internode in response to gibberellin. Expression of OsTMK was especially high in regions undergoing cell division and elongation. The kinase domain of OsTMK was enzymatically active, autophosphorylating on serine and threonine residues. A cDNA encoding a rice ortholog of a kinase-associated type 2C protein phosphatase (OsKAPP) was cloned. KAPPs are putative downstream components in kinase-mediated signal transduction pathways. The kinase interaction domain of OsKAPP was phosphorylated in vitro by the kinase domain of OsTMK. RNA gel-blot analysis indicated that the expression of OsTMK and OsKAPP was similar in different tissues of the rice plant. In protein-binding assays, OsKAPP interacted with a receptor-like protein kinase, RLK5 of Arabidopsis, but not with the protein kinase domains of the rice and maize receptor-like protein kinases Xa21 and ZmPK1, respectively.
10364502	We have expressed the recombinant reverse transcriptase (RT) of bovine leukemia virus (BLV) in bacteria. The gene encoding the RT was designed to start at its 5' end next to the last codon of the mature viral protease, namely the amino terminus of the RT matches the last 26 codons of the pro gene and is coded for by the pro reading frame. The RT sequence extends into the pol gene, utilizing the pol reading frame after overcoming the stop codon by adding an extra nucleotide (thus imitating the naturally occurring frameshift event). Hence we have generated a transframe polypeptide that is a 584-residues-long protein (see Rice, Stephens, Burny, and Gilden (1985) Virology 142, 357-377). This protein was partially purified after adding a six-histidine tag and studied biochemically testing a variety of parameters. The enzyme exhibits all activities typical of RTs, i.e., both RNA- and DNA-dependent DNA polymerase as well as a ribonuclease H (RNase H) activity. Unlike most RTs, the BLV RT is enzymatically active as a monomer even after binding a DNA substrate. The enzyme shows a preference for Mg2+ over Mn2+ in both its DNA polymerase and RNase H activities. BLV RT is relatively resistant to nucleoside triphosphate analogues, which are known to be potent inhibitors of other RTs such as that of HIV.
10364828	To examine the distribution and genome coverage of RAPDs, a total of 242 Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers generated by 73 random decamer primers were mapped onto 12 rice chromosomes by linkage analysis using a doubled haploid population, developed from an indica x japonica cross. The RAPD markers were derived from both parents equally and were well distributed over the rice genome. Furthermore, multiple RAPD markers generated from the same primer were dispersed over different chromosomes rather than clustered. The RAPD technique provided improved marker coverage on a previously developed RFLP map. A set of primers producing reproducible markers originating from either parent and equally spaced over all the 12 chromosomes were selected for application in marker-assisted backcross breeding. The RAPD analysis as a realistic and practical alternative to RFLP and their usefulness in anchoring the identified BAC contigs directly to chromosomes is discussed.
1036663	Nitrogen retention and concentrations of plasma amino acids were compared when young adults consumed isonitrogenous diets containing proteins (3.0 g of N from rice plus 3.0 g of N from milk or 3.0 g of N from rice plus 3.0 g of N from wheat flour) or mixtures of their constituent amino acids. Diets containing proteins induced greater nitrogen retention than did those containing corresponding amounts of amino acids in crystalline form, and the difference between the combinations of proteins was delineated more sharply. Concentrations of several amino acids were elevated by substituting crystalline amino acids for proteins, especially in postprandial plasma. Subjects responded differently to addition of the limiting amino acids, lysine and tryptophan, to the diets containing amino acids instead of rice plus wheat. Therefore, data obtained by means of combinations of cereals and by mixtures of their constituent amino acids cannot always be used interchangeably.
10367391	Gas chromatographic multiresidue methods for simultaneous determination of organophosphorus, organochlorine, and organonitrogen pesticides were used to study the exposure of the Indian population to pesticide contamination at their actual dietary intakes. Selected agricultural commodities--5 kinds of vegetables (tomato, potato, okra, cabbage, and green beans), 6 kinds of cereals and pulses (rice, maize, wheat, red gram, black gram, and green gram), and 6 kinds of fruits (mango, orange, guava, banana, apple, and grapes)--readily available in Chennai City local markets--were studied for this purpose. Samples were fortified with known concentrations of various pesticides and subjected to household preparation methods commonly used in India. The impact of household preparation is very high, resulting in 65-95% decontamination of pesticides at different stages. Of 512 raw market samples analyzed, the organochlorine and organophosphorus pesticides present in 12 samples were removed during household preparations, resulting in residues well below the toxicologically acceptable limits.
1036854	The influence of calcium-cyanamide upon the microbiological activity was tested in pot experiments under controlled conditions in two Portuguese soils (sandy and loamy) after the addition of rice or wheat straw (rice straw 0.275% N, wheat straw 0.307% N). The amount of straw was equalled to 100 dz/ha, the application of calcium-cyanamide to 25, 50 and 100 kg N/ha. In the containers treated with straw the total amount of microorganisms (Koch-method) was higher in sandy than in loamy soil after 30 days, but after 70 days it was higher in loamy soil. The content of active nitrogen (NH4 + NO3) increased, when calcium-cyanamide was added, but decreased after the application of straw. After 70 days sandy soil again showed an increase of active nitrogen. Straw increased the rates of CO2-production considerably, wheat straw was superior to rice straw. Calcium-cyanamide increased the CO2-production more in sandy than in loamy soil or German loess, which was also used for this experiment. Only in the case of rice straw higher doses of calcium-cyanamide had a positive effect. After 70 days the CO2-production rose only when rice straw was applied. The dehydrogenase-activity was increased in both soils, but a superiority of wheat straw occurred in sandy soil only. The microbiological activity in the pots with straw was higher in sandy than in loamy soil, the addition of calcium-cyanamide accelerated it. Doses of 25-50 kg N/ha are sufficient generally. The period of the formation of insoluble organic N-compounds, usually connected with the application of organic matter with a wide N:C-ratio, seems to be reduced by the addition of calcium-cyanamide.
10371193	A plant homologue of mammalian 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 (PDK1) has been identified in Arabidopsis and rice which displays 40% overall identity with human 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1. Like the mammalian 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1, Arabidopsis 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 and rice 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 possess a kinase domain at N-termini and a pleckstrin homology domain at their C-termini. Arabidopsis 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 can rescue lethality in Saccharomyces cerevisiae caused by disruption of the genes encoding yeast 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 homologues. Arabidopsis 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 interacts via its pleckstrin homology domain with phosphatidic acid, PtdIns3P, PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 and PtdIns(3,4)P2 and to a lesser extent with PtdIns(4,5)P2 and PtdIns4P. Arabidopsis 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 is able to activate human protein kinase B alpha (PKB/AKT) in the presence of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3. Arabidopsis 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 is only the second plant protein reported to possess a pleckstrin homology domain and the first plant protein shown to bind 3-phosphoinositides.
1037181	Three investigations were carried out. The first determined the relationships between dehydrogenase acitivty throughout the course of composting wheat straw and the changes in both organic carbon and total nitrogen. The second investigation tested the validity of the first investigation results. The third dealt with the effect of the degree of ripening of a compost, expressed by age and C/N ratio, on its dehydrogenase activity, and production of CO2. The results revealed continual decreases in the organic carbon, coincident with increases in total N and dehydrogenase activity. Noticeable chemical and biological changes occurred in the first and third month. Levels of dehydrogenase were highest in rice straw and lowest in cotton stalk compost, while the wheat straw compost occupied an intermediate position. Aging of the compost resulted in increases in the dehydrogenase figures and decreases in the amounts of CO2 produced.
10373007	There are many proteins that share the same fold but have no clear sequence similarity. To predict the structure of these proteins, so called "protein fold recognition methods" have been developed. During the last few years, improvements of protein fold recognition methods have been achieved through the use of predicted secondary structures (Rice and Eisenberg, J Mol Biol 1997;267:1026-1038), as well as by using multiple sequence alignments in the form of hidden Markov models (HMM) (Karplus et al., Proteins Suppl 1997;1:134-139). To test the performance of different fold recognition methods, we have developed a rigorous benchmark where representatives for all proteins of known structure are matched against each other. Using this benchmark, we have compared the performance of automatically-created hidden Markov models with standard-sequence-search methods. Further, we combine the use of predicted secondary structures and multiple sequence alignments into a combined method that performs better than methods that do not use this combination of information. Using only single sequences, the correct fold of a protein was detected for 10% of the test cases in our benchmark. Including multiple sequence information increased this number to 16%, and when predicted secondary structure information was included as well, the fold was correctly identified in 20% of the cases. Moreover, if the correct secondary structure was used, 27% of the proteins could be correctly matched to a fold. For comparison, blast2, fasta, and ssearch identifies the fold correctly in 13-17% of the cases. Thus, standard pairwise sequence search methods perform almost as well as hidden Markov models in our benchmark. This is probably because the automatically-created multiple sequence alignments used in this study do not contain enough diversity and because the current generation of hidden Markov models do not perform very well when built from a few sequences.
1037450	There is a growth retardation among Thai infants under the age of two years in the Bangkok area. A serious matter is the possible delay in brain development which may start at this early stage. In comparing growth curves of infants on three patterns of feeding it appears that those having sweetened condensed milk suffer from malnutrition and possible delay in brain development. Breast feeding provides satisfactory growth rate and brain development up to the age of 12 months and there is great hope that a nutrition programme to encourage breast feeding could combat existing problems of protein energy malnutrition. There is evidence of greater deficiency of energy than of protein, and there is need to investigate whether growth retardation is due to inadequate energy intake or to high infection rates or to both. Rice is the most suitable basic food for supplementing infants diets, and uncooked grain giving 1 g protein and 83.68 kJ (20 kcal) may well be the simplest formula for supplementing feeding up to the age of two years.
10375131	Steam-cooked soybeans and rice koji were combined (1:1, w/w), mixed with 5% (w/w) NaCl and ground into a fine paste. Samples (30 g) were deposited in nylon/polyethylene plastic bags and supplemented with 10 ml of aqueous ethanol solutions to give concentrations of 0, 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 15, 20, and 25% ethanol. Mixtures were homogenized, sealed, and incubated at 28 degrees C for eight weeks. Mold populations were less than 3 log10 CFU/g in all miso products after four weeks of fermentation. Yeast populations increased to 6.1 log10 CFU/g in the control (0% added ethanol) during the first week of fermentation and remained stable throughout the eight-week fermentation period. Yeasts were not detected in products containing 5-25% ethanol. Populations of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) increased to 6 log10 CFU/g after one week of fermentation in products containing 0 and 2.5% ethanol. However, after eight weeks of fermentation, LAB populations in all products were less than 4 log10 CFU/g. Rapid decreases in pH occurred only in products supplemented with 0 or 2.5% ethanol. Percentages of soluble protein in miso products containing various ethanol concentrations during the eight-week fermentation period revealed that protease activity was still active or not greatly inhibited in products supplemented with less than 10% ethanol. In comparison, koji enzymes were comparatively less affected by ethanol than were populations of molds, yeasts, and LAB. Total soluble carbohydrate and glucose contents were higher in products supplemented with 5, 7.5 and 10% ethanol than in other products. Discoloration (browning) during fermentation occurred most rapidly in products supplemented with 5 or 7.5% ethanol. Sensory evaluation of the low-salt (5%) product supplemented with 7.5% ethanol and fermented for eight weeks revealed normal or enhanced flavor ratings compared to ratings for a commercial product.
10375206
10376667	The rapidity with which genomic sequences of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana and soon of rice are becoming available has strongly boosted plant molecular biology research. Here, two main genomic fields will be discussed: the progress in different structural genome projects, such as mapping, sequencing, genome organization and comparative genomics, and the so-called functional genomics approaches to analyze the genome using such molecular tools as transcript profiling, micro-arrays, and insertional mutagenesis. In addition a section on bioinformatics is included.
10376775	This article looks at the food group choices by individuals grouped based on fat intake, saturated fat intake, and use of lowfat foods. Food consumption data from USDA's National Food Consumption Surveys (NFCS) and the Continuing Survey of Food Intakes by Individuals (CSFII) were used to look at changes in the mean energy, percent calories from fat and saturated-fat and total-fat intakes over time. USDA's 1995 CSFII data were used to evaluate the diets of individuals grouped based on percent calories from fat and use of low-fat foods. Individuals six to 50 years old who had complete food intake records were included and five age-gender classifications were used. The percent of calories from total fat and saturated fat have steadily declined over the last 30 years, and the amount of fat in the diet has increased from 1989 to 1995. Those whose diets met the Dietary Guidelines Recommendations for fat and saturated fat had lower fat intakes. Except for adult males, those with low-fat diets had higher intakes of total-food amount. Also, lower saturated-fat intakes were associated with lower energy intakes. In general, high-fruit-and-grain-products consumption were seen in groups with low-fat intake. For those who included low-fat foods in their diets and also had low-fat intakes, rice and pasta were the major foods of choice for calories. Fried potatoes were one of the main sources of calories for high-fat groups. The study showed individuals whose diets included low-fat foods are more likely to have a diet that meets the dietary guidelines recommendations for fat and saturated fat.
10377457	Transgenic rice containing an antisense cDNA for the alpha subunit of rice heterotrimeric G protein produced little or no mRNA for the subunit and exhibited abnormal morphology, including dwarf traits and the setting of small seeds. In normal rice, the mRNA for the alpha subunit was abundant in the internodes and florets, the tissues closely related to abnormality in the dwarf transformants. The position of the alpha-subunit gene was mapped on rice chromosome 5 by mapping with the restriction fragment length polymorphism. The position was closely linked to the locus of a rice dwarf mutant, Daikoku dwarf (d-1), which is known to exhibit abnormal phenotypes similar to those of the transformants that suppressed the endogenous mRNA for the alpha subunit by antisense technology. Analysis of the cDNAs for the alpha subunits of five alleles of Daikoku dwarf (d-1), ID-1, DK22, DKT-1, DKT-2, and CM1361-1, showed that these dwarf mutants had mutated in the coding region of the alpha-subunit gene. These results show that the G protein functions in the formation of normal internodes and seeds in rice.
10378987	We studied the effect of the methanol extract of Oryza sativa L. subsp. hsien Ting (OSHT) on anaphylaxis. OSHT (0.001-1.0 mg g-1body weight (BW)) dose-dependently inhibited systemic anaphylaxis induced by compound 48/80 in rats. When OSHT was pretreated at concentrations ranging from 0.001 to 1.0 mg g-1BW, the serum histamine levels were reduced in a dose-dependent manner. OSHT (0. 001-1.0 mg g-1BW) also inhibited local anaphylaxis activated by anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP) IgE. Moreover, OSHT dose-dependently inhibited the histamine release from rat peritoneal mast cells (RPMC) activated by compound 48/80 or anti-DNP IgE. The level of cAMP in RPMC, when OSHT was added, significantly increased approx. 20-fold compared with that of basal cells. These results indicate that OSHT possesses strong antianaphylactic activity by inhibition of histamine release from mast cells in vivo and in vitro.
10380798	A genomic DNA fragment containing the 5'-upstream sequence and part of the open reading frame corresponding to Triticum aestivum puroindoline-b cDNA, was isolated by inverse PCR. Promoter fragments extending to -1068, -388, -210 or -124 upstream of the translation initiation ATG codon and the sequence coding for the first 13 amino acids of the puroindoline-b, were translationally fused to the uidA reporter gene encoding beta-glucuronidase and transferred to rice calli via particle bombardment-mediated transformation. The 1068 bp and 124 bp promoters were also transcriptionally fused to the uidA reporter gene. Out of the 196 plants regenerated from transformed rice calli, 118 plants set seeds. No GUS activity was detectable in the stems, roots, leaves or pollen of the transgenic rice which had integrated the puroindoline-b promoter or its deletions; GUS activity was detected only in seeds, except in those having integrated the 124 bp promoter. Within seeds, histological localisation showed GUS activity as being restricted to the endosperm, aleurone cells and pericarp cell layers; no GUS activity was detected in the embryonic axis. Analysis of 5' promoter deletions identified the region between -388 and -210 as essential for endosperm expression, and the region between -210 and -124 as essential for expression in the epithelium of the scutellum. No difference of expression was observed between the translational and transcriptional fusion genes.
10380800	Endogenous, 14 kb double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) have been found in two ecospecies of cultivated rice (temperate japonica rice and tropical japonica rice, Oryza sativa L.) and in wild rice (O. rufipogon, an ancestor of O. sativa). A comparison of the nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of the core regions of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase domains found in these three dsRNAs suggested that these dsRNAs probably evolved independently within each host plant from a common ancestor. These dsRNAs were introduced into F1 hybrids by crossing cultivated rice and wild rice. Unusual cytoplasmic inheritance of these dsRNAs was observed in some F1 hybrids; the evolutionarily related dsRNAs were incompatible for each other, and the resident dsRNA of an egg cell from cultivated rice was excluded by the incoming dsRNA of a pollen cell from wild rice. Coexisting dsRNAs in the F1 hybrids segregated away from each other in the F2 plants. However, the total amount of these dsRNAs in the host cells remained constant (ca. 100 copies/cell). The stringent regulation of the dsRNA copy number may be responsible for their unusual inheritance.
10380802	A modified protocol for differential display of mRNA was used to identify and clone genes expressed in developing Arabidopsis thaliana seeds. Two novel embryo-specific genes designated ATS1 and ATS3 (Arabidopsis thaliana seed gene) were identified. In situ hybridization showed that, spatially, ATS1 is expressed in a pattern similar to the Arabidopsis GEA1 gene and that ATS3 is expressed in a pattern similar to the Arabidopsis seed storage protein genes. Southern analysis of Arabidopsis genomic DNA indicated that ATS1 is a member of a small gene family and that ATS3 is present as a single copy in the diploid genome. Sequence analysis of both genes showed that ATS1 is similar to the rice EFA27 gene and that ATS3 is unique. Western analysis and light level immunocytochemistry using antisera raised against the putative ATS1 and ATS3 translation products verified that ATS1 and ATS3 proteins are seed-specific and accumulate in a spatial pattern similar to their respective transcripts. Taken together, these data show that ATS1 and ATS3 are novel embryo-specific genes in Arabidopsis.
10382654	Raw vegetables cut for salad, cooked salad, cooked rice, boiled noodles, bean curd, and cooked Japanese foods were purchased in 27 retail shops in Tokyo. Intact vegetables before being processed and ready-to-eat fresh salad products were obtained from two food factories located in the suburbs of Tokyo. Two hundred thirty-eight retail samples, 137 samples of intact vegetables, and 159 samples of fresh products were examined for aerobic plate count (APC), coliforms, Escherichia coli, Listeria spp., Staphylococcus aureus, and Bacillus cereus. The APC of retail foods were 2.1 to 5.7 log CFU/g, and the range for the coliforms was 0.1 to 2.3 log CFU/g. The APC and coliform values showed that the raw vegetables cut for salad were the most heavily contaminated among the six kinds of ready-to-eat foods examined. Although L. monocytogenes was not detected, two samples of raw vegetables and five kinds of cooked foods yielded Listeria spp. S. aureus was detected in one sample of Japanese cooked food. The APC of the intact vegetables were 2.9 to 7.3 log CFU/g upon arrival and 2.2 to 7.2 log CFU/g after 3 days storage at 10 degrees C. The APC of the fresh products were 3.4 to 7.6 log CFU/g upon arrival and 4.7 to 8.7 log CFU/g after 3 days storage at 10 degrees C. The isolation rates for coliforms were 6.1 to 50% for intact vegetables and 50 to 66.7% for fresh products. E. coli was detected only in the fresh products. B. cereus was isolated from 20.1% (17 of 81) of the intact vegetables and 9.2% (8 of 87) of the fresh products.
10382970	Thirty-five MADS box gene homologues were identified through a large-scale cDNA analysis in rice. Based on the nucleotide sequences of the 3'-untranslated region, these clones were classified into 11 independent species. Seven species were found to be new among the rice MADS box gene family, and the other 4 corresponded to the previously reported OsMADS1, OsMADS2, OsMADS4, and OsMADS5. The full nucleotide sequences of the 7 new species were determined. Each clone encoded a deduced protein of 164-267 amino acids. The K-domain of the MADS protein was conserved in all clones though with lower degree in clone S10304. Reverse transcription PCR analysis showed that clones E31254 and E31864 were expressed mainly in panicles. Dendrogram analysis suggested that E31254 and E31864 are close to Arabidopsis AGL9 and AP1, respectively. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) linkage mapping revealed that the rice MADS box gene homologues reported here are not clustered but are located throughout the genome. The locus of E31864 on the RFLP map was closely linked to the long sterile lemma gene, g-1.
10383438	We describe the primary structure of eukaryotic molybdopterin synthase small and large subunits and compare the sequences of the lower eukaryote, Aspergillus nidulans, and a higher eukaryote, Homo sapiens. Mutants in the A. nidulans cnxG (encoding small subunit) and cnxH (large subunit) genes have been analyzed at the biochemical and molecular level. Chlorate-sensitive mutants, all the result of amino acid substitutions, were shown to produce low levels of molybdopterin, and growth tests suggest that they have low levels of molybdoenzymes. In contrast, chlorate-resistant cnx strains have undetectable levels of molybdopterin, lack the ability to utilize nitrate or hypoxanthine as sole nitrogen sources, and are probably null mutations. Thus on the basis of chlorate toxicity, it is possible to distinguish between amino acid substitutions that permit a low level of molybdopterin production and those mutations that completely abolish molybdopterin synthesis, most likely reflecting molybdopterin synthase activity per se. Residues have been identified that are essential for function including the C-terminal Gly of the small subunit (CnxG), which is thought to be crucial for the sulfur transfer process during the formation of molybdopterin. Two independent alterations at residue Gly-148 in the large subunit, CnxH, result in temperature sensitivity suggesting that this residue resides in a region important for correct folding of the fungal protein. Many years ago it was proposed, from data showing that temperature-sensitive cnxH mutants had thermolabile nitrate reductase, that CnxH is an integral part of the molybdoenzyme nitrate reductase (MacDonald, D. W., and Cove, D. J. (1974) Eur. J. Biochem. 47, 107-110). Studies of temperature-sensitive cnxH mutants isolated in the course of this study do not support this hypothesis. Homologues of both molybdopterin synthase subunits are evident in diverse eukaryotic sources such as worm, rat, mouse, rice, and fruit fly as well as humans as discussed in this article. In contrast, molybdopterin synthase homologues are absent in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Precursor Z and molybdopterin are undetectable in this organism nor do there appear to be homologues of molybdoenzymes.
10383685	Genetic variation within and between eight natural populations of Oryza rufipogon from China and Brazil was investigated at the DNA level by analysis of RAPD fragments. Out of 60 random primers, which were initially screened against DNA from four individuals, 20 generated highly reproducible RAPD fragments which were then used for further population analysis. With these primers, 95 discernible DNA fragments were produced and 78 (82.1%) were polymorphic, which indicated that high levels of genetic variation existed in these natural populations. In addition, the Chinese populations showed greater polymorphism than those from Brazil at both the population and regional levels. This is noteworthy considering that the Chinese populations are from a relatively restricted area of China. The factors responsible for these findings include the contrasting mating systems in the Brazilian and Chinese populations, and gene flow from annual cultivated rice to perennial natural populations in China. An Analysis of Molecular Variance (AMOVA) was used to apportion the variation between individuals within populations, between populations within regions, and between regions. Results showed that 61.8% of the total genetic diversity resided between the two continents, whereas only 14.9% and 23.3% was attributable to population differences within regions and to individual differences within a population, respectively. The great genetic differentiation between the Chinese and Brazilian populations is in agreement with recent treatment of the American form of O. rufipogon as a separate species, O. glumaepatula.
10386945	Insights gained from a crystal structure of scytalone dehydratase led to the design of carboxamide inhibitors with a phenoxypropyl group substituted on the nitrogen atom Potent enzyme inhibitors were synthesized around this motif, the best of which provided excellent control of rice blast disease in greenhouse assays and outdoor field trials.
10386946	Five X-ray crystal structures of scytalone dehydratase complexed with different inhibitors have delineated conformationally flexible regions of the binding pocket. This information was used for the design and synthesis of a norephedrine-derived cyanoacetamide class of inhibitors leading to potent fungicides.
10388817	The population genetics of Magnaporthe grisea, the rice blast pathogen, were analyzed in a center of rice diversity (the Uttar Pradesh hills of the Indian Himalayas) using multilocus and single-, or low-copy, DNA markers. Based on DNA fingerprinting with the multilocus probe MGR586 and single-locus probes, 157 haplotypes clustered into 56 lineages (at >/=70% MGR586 band similarity, each with unique single-locus profiles) and high diversity indices were detected among 458 isolates collected from 29 sites during 1992-1995. Most valleys sampled had distinct populations (73% of the lineages were site specific) with some containing one or a few lineages, confirming the importance of clonal propagation, and others were very diverse. Widely distributed lineages suggested that migration occurs across the region and into the Indo-Gangetic plains. Repeated sampling at one site, Matli, (170 isolates, 1992-1995) yielded 19 lineages and diversity significantly greater than that reported from similar samples from Colombia and the Philippines. Analysis of allelic associations using pairwise comparisons and multilocus variance analysis failed to reject the hypothesis of gametic phase equilibrium. The Matli population shifted from highly diverse in 1992 to almost complete dominance by one lineage in 1995. Such population dynamics are consistent with recombination followed by differential survival of clonal descendants of recombinant progeny. At another site, Ranichauri, population (n = 84) composition changed from 2 to 11 lineages over 2 yr and yielded additional evidence for equilibrium. Sexually fertile and hermaphrodite isolates of both mating types were recovered from rice in both Matli and Ranichauri. We demonstrate that Himalayan M. grisea populations are diverse and dynamic and conclude that the structure of some populations may be affected to some extent by sexual recombination.
10388831	We have constructed a 1736-locus maize genome map containing1156 loci probed by cDNAs, 545 probed by random genomic clones, 16 by simple sequence repeats (SSRs), 14 by isozymes, and 5 by anonymous clones. Sequence information is available for 56% of the loci with 66% of the sequenced loci assigned functions. A total of 596 new ESTs were mapped from a B73 library of 5-wk-old shoots. The map contains 237 loci probed by barley, oat, wheat, rice, or tripsacum clones, which serve as grass genome reference points in comparisons between maize and other grass maps. Ninety core markers selected for low copy number, high polymorphism, and even spacing along the chromosome delineate the 100 bins on the map. The average bin size is 17 cM. Use of bin assignments enables comparison among different maize mapping populations and experiments including those involving cytogenetic stocks, mutants, or quantitative trait loci. Integration of nonmaize markers in the map extends the resources available for gene discovery beyond the boundaries of maize mapping information into the expanse of map, sequence, and phenotype information from other grass species. This map provides a foundation for numerous basic and applied investigations including studies of gene organization, gene and genome evolution, targeted cloning, and dissection of complex traits.
10389747	We have investigated the relation between alcohol, tobacco and dietary habits and risk of adenocarcinoma of the small intestine using data from 2 hospital-based case-control studies on intestinal cancers conducted in 6 Italian centres between 1985 and 1996. Cases were 23 patients below age 75 years with adenocarcinoma of the small intestine. Controls were 230 patients admitted to hospital for a wide spectrum of acute, non-neoplastic, non-digestive tract diseases, matched to cases on sex, age, study and centre. Odds ratios (ORs) were estimated using conditional logistic regression. Alcohol and tobacco consumption did not increase the risk of adenocarcinoma of the small intestine. The risk appeared to be directly related to intake of bread, pasta or rice (OR = 3.8), sugar (OR = 2.9) and red meat (OR = 4.6), and inversely to coffee (OR = 0.4), fish (OR = 0.3), vegetables (OR = 0.3) and fruit (OR = 0.6). Our results suggest that dietary correlates of adenocarcinoma of the small intestine are similar to those of colon cancer and at least of the same magnitude. While the present data are inconsistent with a major effect of tobacco or alcohol, a moderate association between these factors and small bowel cancer may have been obscured by the play of chance.
10390872	The taxonomic position of the nitrogen-fixing rice isolate A15, previously classified as Alcaligenes faecalis, was reinvestigated. On the basis of its small subunit ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) sequence this strain identifies as Pseudomonas stutzeri. Phenotyping and fatty acid profiling confirm this result. DNA:DNA hybridisations, using the optical renaturation rate method, between strain A15 and Pseudomonas stutzeri LMG 11199T revealed a mean DNA-binding of 77%. The identification was further corroborated by comparative sequence analysis of the oprF gene, which encodes the major outer membrane protein of rRNA homology group I pseudomonads. Furthermore we determined the nifH sequence of this strain and of two putative diazotrophic Pseudomonas spp. and made a comparative analysis with sequences of other diazotrophs. These Pseudomonas NifH sequences cluster with NifH sequences isolated from the rice rhizosphere by PCR and of proteobacteria from the beta and gamma subclasses.
10390878	Rice plants that were grown in flooded rice soil microcosms were examined for their ability to exhibit sulfate reducing activity. Washed excised rice roots showed sulfate reduction potential when incubated in anaerobic medium indicating the presence of sulfate-reducing bacteria. Rice plants, that were incubated in a double-chamber (phylloshpere and rhizosphere separated), showed potential sulfate reduction rates in the anoxic rhizosphere compartment. These rates decreased when oxygen was allowed to penetrate through the aerenchyma system of the plants into the anoxic root compartment, indicating that sulfate reducers on the roots were partially inhibited by oxygen or that sulfate was regenerated by oxidation of reduced S-compounds. The potential activity of sulfate reducers on rice roots was consistent with MPN enumerations showing that H2-utilizing sulfate-reducing bacteria were present in high numbers on the rhizoplane (4.1 x 10(7) g-1 root fresh weight) and in the adjacent rhizosperic soil (2.5 x 10(7) g-1 soil dry weight). Acetate-oxidizing sulfate reducers, on the other hand, showed highest numbers in the unplanted bulk soil (1.9 x 10(6) g-1 soil dry weight). Two sulfate reducing bacteria were isolated from the highest dilutions of the MPN series and were characterized physiologically and phylogenetically. Strain F1-7b which was isolated from the rhizoplane with H2 as electron donor was related to subgroup II of the family Desulfovibrionaceae. Strain EZ-2C2, isolated from the rhizoplane on acetate, grouped together with Desulforhabdus sp. and Syntrophobacter wolinii. Other strains of sulfate-reducing bacteria originated from bulk soil of rice soil microcosms and were isolated using different electron donors. From these isolates, strains R-AcA1, R-IbutA1, R-PimA1 and R-AcetonA170 were Gram-positive bacteria which were affiliated with the genus Desulfotomaculum. The other isolates were members of subgroup II of the Desulfovibrionaceae (R-SucA1 and R-LacA1), were related to Desulforhabdus sp. (strain BKA11), Desulfobulbus (R-PropA1), or culstered between Desulfobotulus sapovorans and Desulfosarcina variabilis (R-ButA1 and R-CaprA1).
10393345	In Burkholderia glumae (formerly named Pseudomonas glumae), isolated as the causal agent of grain rot and seedling rot of rice, oxalate was produced from oxaloacetate in the presence of short-chain acyl-CoA such as acetyl-CoA and propionyl-CoA. Upon purification, the enzyme responsible was separated into two fractions (tentatively named fractions II and III), both of which were required for the acyl-CoA-dependent production of oxalate. In conjugation with the oxalate production from oxaloacetate catalyzed by fractions II and III, acetyl-CoA used as the acyl-CoA substrate was consumed and equivalent amounts of CoASH and acetoacetate were formed. The isotope incorporation pattern indicated that the two carbon atoms of oxalate are both derived from oxaloacetate, and among the four carbon atoms of acetoacetate two are from oxaloacetate and two from acetyl-CoA. When the reaction was carried out with fraction II alone, a decrease in acetyl-CoA and an equivalent level of net utilization of oxaloacetate were observed without appreciable formation of CoASH, acetoacetate or oxalate. It appears that in the oxalate production from oxaloacetate and acetyl-CoA, fraction II catalyzes condensation of the two substrates to form an intermediate which is split into oxalate and acetoacetate by fraction III being accompanied by the release of CoASH.
10393983	Comparative genomic analysis at the genetic-map level has shown extensive conservation of the gene order between the different grass genomes in many chromosomal regions. However, little is known about the gene organization in grass genomes at the microlevel. Comparison of gene-coding regions between maize, rice, and sorghum showed that the distance between the genes is correlated with the genome size. We have investigated the microcolinearity at Lrk gene loci in the genomes of four grass species: wheat, barley, maize, and rice. The Lrk genes, which encode receptor-like kinases, were found to be consistently associated with another type of receptor-like kinase (Tak) on chromosome groups 1 and 3 in Triticeae and on chromosomes homoeologous to Triticeae group 3 in the other grass genomes. On Triticeae chromosome group 1, Tak and Lrk together with genes putatively encoding NBS/LRR proteins form a cluster of genes possibly involved in signal transduction. Comparison of the gene composition at orthologous Lrk loci in wheat, barley, and rice revealed a maximal gene density of one gene per 4-5 kb, very similar to the gene density in Arabidopsis thaliana. We conclude that small and large grass genomes contain regions that are highly enriched in genes with very little or no repetitive DNA. The comparison of the gene organization suggested various genome rearrangements during the evolution of the different grass species.
10394640	REP-1 is a major cysteine endopeptidase that digests seed storage glutelin of rice. A cDNA clone (pRP60) for REP-1 and a cDNA clone (pRP80) for a related enzyme were previously isolated. The expression of both mRNAs is regulated by gibberellin. In this study, we revealed the structure and organization of Rep1 and RepA, genes corresponding to pRP60 and pRP80 mRNAs, respectively. Rep1 has no introns whereas RepA consists of five exons and four introns, and both genes exist as one copy gene in the rice genome. The gibberellin-responsive elements conserved in cereal alpha-amylase genes are not included in the 5'-upstream region of Rep1 or RepA. A molecular phylogenetic tree of plant cysteine endopeptidases was constructed, and their relationship was discussed.
10394940	Rice storage protein glutelin genes are coordinately regulated during seed development. A previous 5' deletion analysis using transgenic tobacco revealed that the minimum 5' region necessary for endosperm specificity was within -245 bp of the transcription start site, and included the AACA and GCN4 motifs that are highly conserved in the 5'-flanking regions of all glutelin genes. In this paper, the sequence elements essential for endosperm-specific expression are characterized in stable transgenic tobacco plants by both loss-of-function and gain-of-function experiments using this minimum promoter. Base substitution analysis shows that the proximal AACA motif between -73 and -61, and the GCN4 motif between -165 and -158 act as critical elements. An ACGT motif between -81 and -75, and Skn-I-like elements between -173 and -169 also play important roles in controlling the seed-specific expression. When the distal region between -245 and -145 containing the AACA and the GCN4 motifs or the proximal region between -113 and -46 containing the ACGT and AACA motifs is fused to a truncated promoter (-90 to +9) of the CaMV 35S gene fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene, high levels of seed-specific expression are observed in these fusions, thereby indicating that either pair of motifs is sufficient to confer seed expression in these fusions. However, when substituted for by the CaMV 35S core promoter (-46 to +1), seed expression is abolished, suggesting that the sequence between -90 and -46 of the CaMV 35S promoter containing G-box-like motif (as-1 element) is required for such specific expression in addition to AACA and GCN4 motifs. Therefore, we conclude that at least three cis-regulatory elements, the AACA motif, GCN4 motif and ACGT motif, are necessary to mediate endosperm expression of the GluB-1 glutelin gene.
10394955	A cDNA clone OsMADS16 was isolated from the rice young inflorescence cDNA expression library by the yeast two-hybrid screening method with OsMADS4 as bait. We have previously shown that the OsMADS4 gene is a member of the PI family and that the MADS-box gene is involved in controlling development of the second and third whorls of rice flowers. The sequence comparison indicated that OsMADS16 belongs to the AP3 family. The OsMADS16 protein contains a PI-derived motif, FAFRVVPSQPNLH, that is a conserved sequence in AP3 family genes at the C-terminal region. In addition, OsMADS16 contains a paleoAP3 motif, YGGNHDLRLG, downstream of the PI-derived motif. The paleoAP3 motif is a consensus sequence in the C-terminal region of the AP3 family genes of lower eudicot and magnolid dicot species. RNA blot analysis showed that the OsMADS16 gene was expressed in the second and third whorls, whereas the OsMADS4 transcripts were present in the second, third, and fourth whorls. These expression patterns of the OsMADS16 and OsMADS4 genes are very similar to those of AP3 and PI, respectively. In the yeast two-hybrid system, OsMADS4 interacted only with OsMADS16 among several rice MADS genes investigated, suggesting that OsMADS4 and OsMADS16 function as a heterodimer in specifying sepal and petal identities. The OsMADS16 protein displayed transcription activation ability in yeast, whereas AP3 did not. It was also shown in yeast that OsMADS16 interacted with PI whereas OsMADS4 did not interact with AP3. These differences between OsMADS16 and AP3 indicate that the functions of the AP3 family genes of monocots and dicots diverged during molecular evolution processes of the B function genes. Deletion analysis showed that the 155-200 amino acid region of the OsMADS16 protein plays an important role in the transcription activation ability.
10395595	We examined the role of resistant protein and peptides in promoting cecal butyrate production in rats fed rapidly fermentable carbohydrates. Rats were fed diets containing raw potato starch (RPS, 200 g/kg diet) or fructooligosaccharide (FOS, 60 g/kg diet) with casein, soy or rice protein (250 g/kg diet) for 13 d. In rats fed RPS with casein, the major cecal organic acid was acetate (441 micromol), but lactate and succinate were also found in considerable amounts (324 micromol). Succinate was the major cecal organic acid (235 micromol) in rats fed FOS with casein. When rice protein was fed with RPS, the contribution of lactate was significantly lower and that of propionate tended to be higher (P < 0.1) than in rats fed casein. In rats fed rice protein with FOS, cecal butyrate and acetate were greater and cecal succinate was lower than in rats fed casein with FOS (P < 0.05). Despite the similar amounts of undigested protein in rice and soy proteins, soy protein did not similarly affect cecal butyrate in rats fed FOS or RPS. In another experiment, rats were fed diets containing high amylose cornstarch (HAS, 200 g/kg diet) with casein, casein + oligo-L-methionine (OM, 3 g/kg diet), soy protein, soy protein + OM (3 g/kg diet) or rice protein (250 g/kg diet) for 10 d. OM (digestibility, 31%) was substituted for the same amount of casein. Rats fed rice protein had greater cecal butyrate than rats fed casein (P < 0.05). OM supplementation to casein or soy protein increased cecal butyrate compared with rats fed casein or soy protein alone (P < 0.05). These data support our hypothesis that resistant protein and peptides promote cecal butyrate production and suggest that the differing potency of rice and soy proteins in promoting cecal butyrate production might be explained in part by the different amino acid composition of resistant protein.
10395929	Na+/H+ exchanger catalyzes the countertransport of Na+ and H+ across membranes. We isolated a rice cDNA clone the deduced amino acid sequence of which had homology with a putative Na+/H+ exchanger in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, NHX1. The sequence contains 2330 bp with an open reading frame of 1608 bp. The deduced amino acid sequence is similar to that of NHX1 and NHE isoforms in mammals, and shares high similarity with the sequences within predicted transmembrane segments and an amiloride-binding domain. The expression of the gene was increased by salt stress. These results suggest that the product of the novel gene, OsNHX1, functions as a Na+/H+ exchanger, and plays important roles in salt tolerance of rice.
10396872	This paper presents the fecal excretion of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin (PCDD) congeners, and polychlorinated dibenzofuran (PCDF) congeners in male rats fed a diet containing 0.5% disodiumprotoporphyrin (PPNa) or 0.5% hemin. The animals were administered 4 g of 0.5% PPNa or 0.5% hemin diet containing 0.5 ml of the causal rice-bran oil of Yusho that had occurred in the Southwest part of Japan in 1968 and kept on the same diet for five days. The fecal excretion of 2,3,7,8-T4CDD and 2,3,4,7,8-P5CDF in the group fed with 0.5% PPNa were 2.1 and 1.9 times higher, respectively, than that in the group fed with a control diet. Hemin did not show any significant effect on the inhibition of absorption of dioxins. Next, the rats were given a diet containing 0.5% PPNa or 0.5% Hemin for four weeks after a week interval from the day of the causal rice-bran oil administration. The fecal excretion of 2,3,7,8-T4CDD and 2,3,4,7,8-P5CDF in the group fed with 0.5% PPNa were stimulated 2.1 times higher, respectively, than that in the group fed with a control diet. Hemin did not show any significant effect on the inhibition of re-absorption of dioxins.
10396873	The effect green vegetable on fecal excretion of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin (PCDD) congeners and polychlorinated dibenzofuran (PCDF) congeners was examined in male rats. The rats were administered 10% vegetable diets or a basal diet containing 0.2 ml of the causal rice-bran oil of Yusho that had occurred in the Southwest part of Japan in 1968 and kept on the same diet for five days. The fecal excretion of 2,3,7,8-T4CDD and 2,3,4,7,8-P5CDF in the group fed with Komatsuna, Mitsuba, Spinach and Perilla were 7.6-11.6 and 6.5-9.4 times higher, respectively, than that in the group fed with a basal diet. The fecal excretion of 2,3,7,8-T4CDD and 2,3,4,7,8-P5CDF in the group fed with Kale, Chinese chive, Shungiku, Chingentsuai, Green lettus and Sweet pepper were 3.3-4.8 and 4.3-4.5 times higher, respectively, than that in the basal group. The fecal excretion of 2,3,7,8-T4CDD and 2,3,4,7,8-P5CDF in the group fed with Chinese cabbage, Broccoli, Onion, Welsh onion, Cabbage and Celery were 1.6-3.0 and 1.2-1.3 times higher, respectively, than that in the basal group. A correlation between Chllophyll consumption and fecal excretion of PCDD and PCDF congeners was highly significant (p < 0.01). Next, we investigated the fecal excretion of PCDD and PCDF congeners from day 8 to day 35 in rats administered with 0.5 ml of the rice oil. The fecal excretion of 2,3,7,8-T4CDD and 2,3,4,7,8-P5CDF in the group fed with Perilla, Kale and Spinach were 3.1-4.9 and 3.0-3.6 times higner, respectively, than that in the basal group. The presents results suggest that the green vegetables might be useful in treatment of humans exposed to PCDD and PCDF congeners.
10396875	All PCB congeners were analyzed by high separation gas chromatography/low resolution mass spectrometer, using 209 PCB congeners as standards. They were separated into 169 peaks, including 28 peaks containing 2 PCBs and 8 peaks containing 3 PCBs. The rice oil samples of Fukuoka and Taiwan Poisonings were analyzed for PCB congeners. They showed 115 separated peaks of PCB congeners. Total PCB concentrations were 879 and 769 ppm in 2 samples of Fukuoka rice oil and 57 and 83 ppm in 2 samples of Taiwan rice oil.
10397340	Public and private EST (Expressed Sequence Tag) programs provide access to a large number of ESTs from a number of plant species, including Arabidopsis, corn, soybean, rice, wheat. In addition to the homology of each EST to genes in GenBank, information about homology to all other ESTs in the data base can be obtained. To estimate expression levels of genes represented in the DuPont EST data base we count the number of times each gene has been seen in different cDNA libraries, from different tissues, developmental stages or induction conditions. This quantitation of message levels is quite accurate for highly expressed messages and, unlike conventional Northern blots, allows comparison of expression levels between different genes. Lists of most highly expresses genes in different libraries can be compiled. Also, if EST data is available for cDNA libraries derived from different developmental stages, gene expression profiles across development can be assembled. We present an example of such a profile for soybean seed development. Gene expression data obtained from Electronic Northern analysis can be confirmed and extended beyond the realm of highly expressed genes by using high density DNA arrays. The ESTs identified as interesting can be arrayed on nylon or glass and probed with total labeled cDNA first strand from the tissue of interest. Two-color fluorescent labeling allows accurate mRNA ratio measurements. We are currently using the DNA array technology to study chemical induction of gene expression and the biosynthesis of oil, carbohydrate and protein in developing seeds.
10399351	Alcohol-soluble endosperm proteins (prolamins) from some cereals (e.g. wheat, barley, and rye) give origin upon proteolytic digestion to biologically-active antinutritional peptides able to adversely affect in vivo the intestinal mucosa of coeliac patients, whereas prolamins from other cereals (e.g. maize and rice) do not. These antinutritional peptides are also able to: (a) prevent in vitro recovery of atrophic coeliac mucosa; (b) to inhibit differentiation of isolated rat fetal and chick fetal intestines; and (c) to interact with undifferentiated cells either agglutinating them or affecting their proliferation and metabolism. Studies performed with A-gliadin, a highly purified bread wheat prolamin fraction, and its fragments obtained either by chemical cleavage of A-gliadin or by synthesis from aminoacids, clearly pointed out to a few small sequences very rich in glutamine and proline residues as the biologically-active agents. Several protective substances, including mannan and N,N',N"-triacetylchitotriose, have been identified as being able to prevent the effects of these peptides in vitro, but the evidence of their in vivo activity is still missing. The present paper provides a synthetic overview of the available data concerning this highly complex matter and offers a critical appraisal of present hypotheses on the action mechanism of biologically-active peptides derived from cereal prolamins.
10399598	Schistosoma mansoni and S. haematobium affect respectively 2 million and 500,000 persons in Madagascar. Over the past decade, S. mansoni has spread in the central Highlands of Madagascar, essentially throughout the mid-west and Antananarivo plain. To understand this recent change in the epidemiology of S. mansoni, we examined the relationship between its spatial distribution and several host factors, including labour migration, urbanization and water development projects. In the Highlands, the disease in distribution could be superimposed on the potential expansion areas of snail distribution defined in 1958. However, the distribution is not homogeneous, as for example the road between Betafo and Mandoto (South West of Antananarivo). This focal pattern described in other African countries is unique to the central Highlands of Madagascar. Rice cultivation is the main economic activity and is associated with intense water contact. The focal distribution may be related to an environmental adaptation of host-parasite interaction depending on behavioural patterns, water and soil chemistry and incompatibility between Biomphalaria pfeifferi and S. mansoni. It is also possible that these focal patterns precede homogeneous endemicity, as along the road Itasy-Tsiroanomandidy (west Antananarivo). Major water development carried out in this migration area led to a rapid endemization of the disease. In Befato-Mandoto, where soil management is more restricted, schistosomiasis due to S. mansoni seems to have been established in some foci where epidemiologic conditions are favourable (for example, traditional irrigation canals). In contrast, the spread of S. mansoni in the Antananarivo plain closely follows the settlement of an infected rural population. Epidemiologic surveys conducted on school children in the Antananarivo suburbs, where sanitary conditions are poor, showed a prevalence of 25%. Human migration linked to development projects and urbanization seems to be the principal factor associated with the spread of schistosomiasis in the mid-west area and Antananarivo plain. In the Highlands, the preferential exposure of adult labour migrants has contributed to the widening of the endemic area.
10404165	The disease caused by rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) is a serious problem for African rice growers in large-scale irrigated programs. As there are very few suitable natural sources of RYMV resistance, we have investigated a transgenic approach using widely grown, RYMV-susceptible cultivars of rice and a transgene encoding the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of RYMV. Transformed lines were resistant to RYMV strains from different African locations. In the most extreme examples there was complete suppression of virus multiplication. Resistance was stable over at least three generations. Subject to satisfactory field testing, these transgenic lines may be suitable for introduction into RYMV-affected rice-growing areas. In the most resistant line, transcription analysis indicated that the resistance derives from an RNA-based mechanism associated with posttranscriptional gene silencing.
10407888	To examine the working hypothesis that a lack of childhood training in the fine-detailed finger movements illustrated by learning to use chopsticks properly as a child has later rendered such individuals clumsier in the execution of other more adult-like motor movements, four experiments were conducted. Groups of proper and nonproper users (both males and females) performed a task of picking up rice grains (Exp. 1), a pin-down task (Exp. 2), a task of unfastening nuts from bolts (Exp. 3), and a knot-tying task (Exp. 4). Only on the rice-grain transfer task and the knot-tying task, proper chopstick users showed better performance than nonproper users. On the pin-down task and the nuts-and-bolts task, no difference was found between groups. These results suggest that there is no clear evidence to support the hypothesis that a lack of early training for proper chopstick use makes such individuals more clumsy as adults in at least some motor movements.
10409508	The regulatory mechanism of shoot apical meristem (SAM) initiation is an important subject in developmental plant biology. We characterized nine recessive mutations derived from four independent loci (SHL1-SHL4) causing the deletion of the SAM. Radicles were produced in these mutant embryos. Concomitant with the loss of SAM, two embryo-specific organs, coleoptile and epiblast, were lost, but the scutellum was formed normally. Therefore, differentiation of radicle and scutellum is regulated independently of SAM, but that of coleoptile and epiblast may depend on SAM. Regeneration experiments using adventitious shoots from the scutellum-derived calli showed that no adventitious shoots were regenerated in any shl mutant. However, small adventitious leaves were observed in both mutant and wild-type calli, but they soon became necrotic and showed no extensive growth. Thus, leaf primordia can initiate in the absence of SAM, but their extensive growth requires the SAM. An in situ hybridization experiment using a rice homeobox gene, OSH1, as a probe revealed that shl1 and shl2 modified the expression domain of OSH1, but normal expression of OSH1 was observed in shl3 and shl4 embryos. Accordingly, SHL1 and SHL2 function upstream of OSH1, and SHL3 and SHL4 downstream or independently of OSH1. These shl mutants are useful for elucidating the genetic program driving SAM initiation and for unraveling the interrelationships among various organs in grass embryos.
10409987	This qualitative study explored the understandings of body size, food and eating, and health held by Filipino women living in Canada. Women (n = 11) aged 19 to 30 years old who were born in the Philippines and living in British Columbia participated in individual interviews where they discussed their beliefs and practices relating to their body, food, and health. Informants' comments reflected contrasting "Canadian" and "Filipino" meanings. Canadian beliefs emphasized the desirability of thinness, "watching" intake of fat, rice, and junk food, and minimizing disease risk. Filipino beliefs valued fatness, "just eating" fat and rice, and maximizing disease resistance. While most informants appeared to have adopted the Canadian values, Filipino beliefs continued to be of some significance in their lives. These findings demonstrate the socially constructed nature of health beliefs and illustrate how members of a minority ethnic group negotiate among conflicting cultural beliefs about body size, food and health.
10411495	Nucleotide sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome is nearing completion, sequencing of the rice genome has begun, and large amounts of expressed sequence tag information are being obtained for many other plants. There are many opportunities to use this wealth of sequence information to accelerate progress toward a comprehensive understanding of the genetic mechanisms that control plant growth and development and responses to the environment.
10411626	Treatment of rice cells with an endogenous mitogenic peptide, phytosulfokine-alpha (PSK-alpha), results in cell proliferation. In the present study, [3H]PSK-alpha prepared by catalytic reduction of a PSK-alpha analog containing tetradehydroisoleucine was employed to identify putative PSK-alpha target molecules on rice plasma membranes. Membrane binding of the ligand was found to be saturable, reversible and pH dependent. Scatchard analysis demonstrated the existence of both high- and low-affinity binding sites with Kd values of 1.4 nM and 27 nM, respectively. Competition studies with [3H]PSK-alpha and several PSK-alpha analogs showed that displacing activity closely corresponds to the ability to induce cell proliferation. The properties of the binding sites distributed on plasma membranes are consistent with the function of PSK-alpha receptors in activating a cascade of molecular events involved in plant cell proliferation.
10412104	Aquatic habitats, mosquitoes, and larvivorous predators were studied on deforested lands in Central Sulawesi, Indonesia. Open ground pools, mainly in depressions made by the treads of bulldozers and other heavy equipment, were numerous but because of their small size, comprised ca. 1% or less of the total area of the deforested lands studied. The dominant mosquitoes in these pools were Anopheles vagus, Culex vishnui, Culex tritaeniorhynchus, and Culex gelidus. The 1st 2 species were dominant in clear pools, whereas the latter 2 species were dominant in turbid pools. The dominant metazoans other than mosquitoes were Crustacea, Ephemeroptera, and Chironomidae. Both aquatic and surface predators were abundant. Dominant among aquatic predators were Anisoptera and Zygoptera nymphs, Dytiscidae, and Notonectidae. These results are discussed in relation to mosquito control on deforested lands that transitionally but inevitably appear during the course of rice field development projects in Indonesia.
10412512	The protein quality of fruits bodies of three Pleurotus ostreatus Mexican strains (INIREB-8, CDBB-H-896 and CDBB-H-897) was evaluated. The protein concentration (Nx4.38) ranged from 17.26 to 19.97 g/100 g dry weight; chemical scores were between 74 and 93% with available lysine as a first limiting amino acid in either INIREB-8 and CDBB-H-896 strains or leucine in CDBB-H-897 strain. The nutritional evaluation revealed 67.75 to 68.38% in vitro digestibility. Relative protein values were from 100.06-107.85%, which were lower than soybean meal and whole egg but larger than those of rice, maize, beans, fava beans and pasta, no differences were found between these values and those of skim milk powder, casein plus methionine and albumin. In accordance with the last results we concluded that due to their essential amino acids content, mushroom proteins are a good complement of cereals; furthermore, it is highly recommended to include Pleurotus in the daily diet.
10412904	The contribution of sequences upstream and downstream of the transcription start site to the strength and specificity of the promoter of rice tungro bacilliform virus was analysed in transgenic rice plants. The promoter is strongly stimulated by downstream sequences which include an intron and is active in all vascular and epidermal cells. Expression in the vascular tissue requires a promoter element located between -100 and -164 to which protein(s) from rice nuclear extracts bind. Elimination of this region leads to specificity for the epidermis. Due to the presence of a polyadenylation signal in the intron, short-stop RNA is produced from the promoter in addition to full-length primary transcript and its spliced derivatives. The ratio between short-stop RNA and full-length or spliced RNA is determined by upstream promoter sequences, suggesting the assembly of RNA polymerase complexes with different processivity on this promoter.
10417331	We have isolated a Lotus japonicus cDNA for pantothenate (vitamin B(5)) synthetase (PS) by functional complementation of an Escherichia coli panC mutant (AT1371). A rice (Oryza sativum) expressed sequence tag, identified by sequence similarity to PS, was also able to complement the E. coli auxotroph, as was an open reading frame from Saccharomyces cerevisiae (baker's yeast). The Lotus and rice cDNAs encode proteins of approx. 34 kDa, which are 65% similar at the amino acid level and do not appear to encode N-terminal extensions by comparison with PS sequences from other organisms. Furthermore, analysis of genomic sequence flanking the coding sequence for PS in Lotus suggests the original cDNA is full-length. The Lotus and rice PSs are therefore likely to be cytosolic. Southern analysis of Lotus genomic DNA indicates that there is a single gene for PS. Recombinant PS from Lotus, overexpressed in E. coli AT1371, is a dimer. The enzyme requires d-pantoate, beta-alanine and ATP for activity and has a higher affinity for pantoate (K(m) 45 microM) than for beta-alanine (K(m) 990 microM). Uncompetitive substrate inhibition becomes significant at pantoate concentrations above 1 mM. The enzyme displays optimal activity at about 0.5 mM pantoate (k(cat) 0.63 s(-1)) and at pH 7.8. Neither oxopantoate nor pantoyl-lactone can replace pantoate as substrate. Antibodies raised against recombinant PS detected a band of 34 kDa in Western blots of Lotus proteins from both roots and leaves. The implications of these findings for pantothenate biosynthesis in plants are discussed.
10417708	The dhlA gene of Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 encodes a dehalogenase which hydrolyzes dihalo- alkanes, such as 1, 2-dichloroethane (DCE), to a halogenated alcohol and an inorganic halide (Janssen et al. 1994, Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 48, 163-191). In Xanthobacter, these alcohols are further catabolized by alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenase activities, and by the product of the dhlB gene to a second halide and a hydroxyacid. The intermediate halogenated alcohols and, in particular, the aldehydes are more toxic than the haloalkane substrates or the pathway products. We show here that plants, including Arabidopsis, tobacco, oil seed rape and rice, do not express detectable haloalkane dehalogenase activities, and that wild-type Arabidopsis grows in the presence of DCE. In contrast, DCE applied as a volatile can be used to select on plates or in soil transgenic Arabidopsis which express dhlA. The dhlA marker therefore provides haloalkane dehalogenase reporter activity and substrate dependent negative selection in transgenic plants.
10417713	A gene encoding a calcium-dependent seed-specific protein kinase (SPK) is abundantly expressed in developing rice seeds (Kawasaki, T et al. Gene (1993) 129, 183-189). Rice genomic clones encoding SPK were isolated using the entire cDNA fragment as a probe. Physical mapping of these genomic clones indicated that the genomic region corresponding to the entire cDNA was divided into two different regions, SPK-A and SPK-B, located on different rice chromosomes. The results of RACE-PCR analyses showed that the respective transcripts from SPK-A and SPK-B contained additional sequences which were not found in the SPK cDNA, and that these sequences were removed like introns during maturation of the SPK mRNA. These results suggest that two different RNAs were independently transcribed from SPK-A and SPK-B and joined, possibly by trans-splicing.
10419232	Environmental pollutants, which may occur in breast milk and in various food products and drinking water, and which are also transferred to the foetus, constitute a severe threat to the health of infants and children. Among such compounds, various organochlorines, such as pesticides for the control of parasites (DDTs, HCHs), and products of industry and agriculture, such as dioxins and dioxin-like compounds (PCBs), are much discussed, in addition to organic mercury and heavy metals, such as lead and cadmium. The consequences of acute exposure to PCB have been documented in Japan following the ingestion of rice oil contaminated by PCBs. In Sweden birthweight has been found to be reduced and the perinatal mortality rate higher than expected in regions with high consumption of fatty fish from the Baltic Sea. In addition, from studies around Lake Michigan, it has been shown that children who have been exposed to PCBs in utero have retarded cognitive development. In the Aral Sea basin in Central Asia people have been subjected to long-term exposure to various pesticides, which have been distributed over the cotton fields in huge quantities. Organochlorines are resistant to breakdown in nature, thus they enter the food chain, eventually entering the human diet, and they may also be inhaled from dust. Such compounds accumulate in the foetus by placental transport and continue to do so postnatally if the infants are breastfed, as they may be present in high concentrations in human milk. The health of children living in the Aral Sea region is reported to be poor, with high morbidity and mortality and a high rate of chronic diseases and retarded mental and physical development. However, in addition to being subjected to environmental pollution, these children also suffer from health hazards related to poverty. Through epidemiological studies it may be possible to obtain information about to what extent exposure to environmental pollution from organochlorines contributes to the poor health of people living in the Aral Sea region.
10420213	The contrast sensitivity function was assessed in children and adults with normal vision, visual impairment due to ocular disease, and strabismic amblyopia. The methods used were: the LH contrast vision test and the ability to detect raisins, puffed rice and white and black sugar strands against a white and black background. The aim of the study was to see whether any of the tests could be used in the detection of subnormal vision, and to compare the results between the different groups of patients. The following parameters of contrast sensitivity function (CSF) were measured with the LH-test: the maximum contrast sensitivity, the total area of CSF, and the area of 8 spatial frequency bands. Difficulty in detecting an object with low versus high contrast was measured with the sugar strands. Subjects with subnormal vision due to ocular disease and strabismic amblyopia had lower contrast sensitivity than subjects with normal vision measured as the total area of the CSF or the area of a specific frequency band. However, the maximum contrast sensitivity value that could be measured with the test was not significantly different between the groups. No subject had difficulties in the detection of raisins and puffed rice on a white and black background. Difficulties in detecting sugar strands on a white background were not seen in the normal children, but approximately 65% of the children with visual impairment had difficulties, as did approximately 25% of the children and adults with strabismus. Most of these subjects also had low visual acuity, but there was no correlation between the level of reduction of visual acuity and the difficulty in detecting sugar strands.
10420646	Three isoforms of starch synthase (SS) were shown to be present in soluble potato tuber extracts by activity staining after native gel electrophoresis. A cDNA encoding SSI from rice was used as a probe to clone a corresponding cDNA from potato. The deduced amino acid sequence identified the protein as an SS from potato with an M(r) of 70.6 kDa for the immature enzyme including its transit peptide. This novel isoform was designated SSI. An analysis of the expression pattern of the gene indicated that SSI is predominantly expressed in sink and source leaves, and, to a lower extent in tubers. In several independent transgenic potato lines, where the expression of SSI was repressed using the antisense approach, the activity of a specific SS isoform was reduced to non-detectable levels as determined through activity staining after native gel electrophoresis. The reduction in the amount of this isoform of SS did not lead to any detectable changes in starch structure, probably due to the fact that this isoform only represents a minor activity in potato tubers.
10420984	We have developed a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assay that could effectively reduce the time period required to screen and select the cold tolerance gene of rice seedlings under field conditions. The two specific random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) fragments for the assay were identified on the basis of quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis which were found to be tightly linked to cold sensitivity. The two RAPD fragments, OPT8(600) in the cold sensitivity rice cultivar 'Dular (indica)' and OPU20(1200) in the resistance rice cultivar 'Toyohatamochi (japonica)', were identified after screening 11 RAPD fragments using 2 random primers on the genomic DNAs of 'Dular' and 'Toyohatamochi'. These primers, when used in a multiplexed PCR, specifically amplified a 0.6 kb and a 1.2 kb fragment in the sensitive and resistant rice cultivars, respectively. When this assay was performed on the genomic DNAs of 16 japonica, 3 Tongil (indica/ japonica), and 2 indica rice cultivars, the primers amplified a 0.6 kb fragment in all of the cold sensitivity rice cultivars or 1.2 kb fragment in all of the resistance ones. These markers can be of potential use in the marker-assisted selection (MAS) for cold tolerance in rice seedling. As screening for resistance can now be conducted independent of the availability of low temperature, the breeding of cold tolerance cultivars can be hastened.
10421366	World wheat grain yields increased substantially in the 1960s and 1970s because farmers rapidly adopted the new varieties and cultivation methods of the so-called 'green revolution'. The new varieties are shorter, increase grain yield at the expense of straw biomass, and are more resistant to damage by wind and rain. These wheats are short because they respond abnormally to the plant growth hormone gibberellin. This reduced response to gibberellin is conferred by mutant dwarfing alleles at one of two Reduced height-1 (Rht-B1 and Rht-D1) loci. Here we show that Rht-B1/Rht-D1 and maize dwarf-8 (d8) are orthologues of the Arabidopsis Gibberellin Insensitive (GAI) gene. These genes encode proteins that resemble nuclear transcription factors and contain an SH2-like domain, indicating that phosphotyrosine may participate in gibberellin signalling. Six different orthologous dwarfing mutant alleles encode proteins that are altered in a conserved amino-terminal gibberellin signalling domain. Transgenic rice plants containing a mutant GAI allele give reduced responses to gibberellin and are dwarfed, indicating that mutant GAI orthologues could be used to increase yield in a wide range of crop species.
10423494
10425606	In extension and improvement of previous results, a novel method is worked out for pharmacophore identification and activity prediction in structure-activity relationships. In this method, as in our previous works, each molecular system (conformation) of the training set is described by a matrix with both electron structural parameters (atomic charges, bond orders, etc.) and interatomic distances as matrix elements. This description includes a rather full geometry of charge and/or reactivity distribution thus providing a much better representation of the molecular properties in their interaction with the target. By multiple comparison of these matrices for the active and inactive compounds of the training set, a relatively small number of matrix elements are revealed that are common for all the active compounds and are not present in the same combination in the inactive ones. In this way a set of electronic and geometry parameters is obtained that characterize the pharmacophore (Pha). A major improvement of this scheme is reached by introducing the anti-pharmacophore shielding (APS) and a proper treatment of the conformational problem. The APS is defined as molecular groups and competing charges outside the basic skeleton (the Pha plus the inert neighbor atoms that do not affect the activity) that hinder the proper docking of the Pha with the bioreceptor thus diminishing (partially or completely) the activity. A simple empirical formula is derived to estimate the relative contribution of APS numerically. Two main issues are most affected by the APS: (1) the procedure of Pha identification is essentially simplified because only a small number of molecular systems with the highest activity and simplest structures (systems without APS) should be tried for this purpose; (2) with the APS known numerically, we can make a quantitative (or semiquantitative) prediction of relative activities. The contributions of different conformations (of the same molecular system) that possess the Pha and different APS is taken into account by means of a Boltzmann distribution at given temperatures. Applied to an example, rice blast activity, this approach proved to be rather robust and efficient. In validation of the method, the screening of 39 new compounds yields approximately 100% (within experimental error) prediction probability of the activity qualitatively (yes, no), and with r2 = 0.66 quantitatively.
10427044	Most-probable-number (MPN) counts were made of homoacetogenic and other bacteria present in the anoxic flooded bulk soil of laboratory microcosms containing 90- to 95-day-old rice plants. MPN counts with substrates known to be useful for the selective enrichment or the cultivation of homoacetogenic bacteria (betaine, ethylene glycol, 2, 3-butanediol, and 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoate) gave counts of 2.3 x 10(3) to 2.8 x 10(5) cells per g of dry soil. Homoacetogens isolated from the terminal positive steps of these dilution cultures belonged to the genus Sporomusa. Counts with succinate, ethanol, and lactate gave much higher MPNs of 5.9 x 10(5) to 3.4 x 10(7) cells per g of dry soil and led to the isolation of Desulfovibrio spp. Counting experiments on lactate and ethanol which included Methanospirillum hungatei in the medium gave MPNs of 2.3 x 10(6) to 7.5 x 10(8) cells per g of dry soil and led to the isolation of Sporomusa spp. The latter strains could grow with betaine, ethylene glycol, 2, 3-butanediol, and/or 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoate, but apparently most cells of Sporomusa spp. did not initiate growth in counting experiments with those substrates. Spores apparently accounted for 2. 2% or less of the culturable bacteria. It appears that culturable Desulfovibrio spp. and Sporomusa spp. were present in approximately equal numbers in the bulk soil. Multiple, phylogenetically-distinct, phenotypically-different, strains of each genus were found in the same soil system.
10430921	The rice mitochondrial genome has a sequence homologous to the gene for ribosomal protein S14 (rps14), but the coding sequence is interrupted by internal stop codons. A functional rps14 gene was isolated from the rice nuclear genome, suggesting a gene-transfer event from the mitochondrion to the nucleus. The nuclear rps14 gene encodes a long N-terminal extension showing significant similarity to a part of mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase subunit B (SDHB) protein from human and a malarial parasite (Plasmodium falciparum). Isolation of a functional rice sdhB cDNA and subsequent sequence comparison to the nuclear rps14 indicate that the 5' portions of the two cDNAs are identical. The sdhB genomic sequence shows that the SDHB-coding region is divided into two exons. Surprisingly, the RPS14-coding region is located between the two exons. DNA gel blot analysis indicates that both sdhB and rps14 are present at a single locus in the rice nucleus. These findings strongly suggest that the two gene transcripts result from a single mRNA precursor by alternative splicing. Protein blot analysis shows that the size of the mature RPS14 is 16.5 kDa, suggesting removal of the N-terminal 22.6-kDa peptide region. Considering that the rice mitochondrial genome lacks the sdhB gene but contains the rps14-related sequence, transfer of the sdhB gene seems to have occurred before the transfer of the rps14 gene. The migration of the mitochondrial rps14 sequence into the already existing sdhB gene could bestow the capacity for nuclear expression and mitochondrial targeting.
10432063	This paper describes the isolation and partial genetic characterization of a hantavirus from a pygmy rice rat, Oligoryzomys microtis, collected within the urban area of Iquitos, Loreto Department, Peru. The virus, designated HTN-007, exhibited the highest degree of genetic similarity to Rio Mamore virus, which was originally described from the same rodent species in eastern Bolivia. Comparison of small and medium segment nucleotide sequence data from HTN-007 and Rio Mamore virus revealed 87% and 85% sequence identity, respectively. Based on these analyses, HTN-007 appears to be a variant of Rio Mamore virus. As such, it represents the first successful isolation of Rio Mamore virus and the first evidence for the existence of a hantavirus in Peru. Serologic studies done by immunofluorescence on blood samples of 56 O. microtis trapped at the collection site indicated that 21.4% had antibodies to hantavirus. In view of the proximity of this rodent species to humans and the close phylogenetic relationship of Rio Mamore virus to hantaviruses that have been associated with human disease, Rio Mamore virus may be a hantavirus of some public health importance in tropical South America.
10433849	N-Acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) and its isoenzymes in urine have been studied in a population group residing in a polluted area in China. The area studied was contaminated by industrial wastewater from a nearby smelter that discharged cadmium-polluted wastewater into a river used for the irrigation of rice fields. Cadmium concentrations in rice were 3.70, 0.51, and 0.07 mg/kg for the highly and moderately polluted areas and the control area, respectively. Cadmium concentrations in urine exceeded 5 microgram/liter in the majority of subjects in the most highly polluted area. There was a marked dose-dependent increase in NAG and NAG B content of urine related both to urinary cadmium and to the calculated cadmium uptake. It is concluded that urinary NAG and its isoenzymes could serve as a sensitive biomarker of renal dysfunction in cadmium-exposed populations. The mechanisms underlying the increase in NAG and its isoenzymes after cadmium exposure need to be studied further.
10434573	There is little objective information about diet therapy for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in Japan. We studied 14 patients with RA who stayed in the Koda hospital for 55 days. They basically took a 1200 kcal vegan diet consisting of unpolished rice gruel, juice of raw vegetables, soya bean curd and sesame seeds, and undertook a 3-5-day fast three times. During the 55-day stay, average body weight decreased by 5.1kg. Lansbury index and ESR decreased whereas CRP did not change. WBC decreased and the differential cell counts showed a decrease of neutrophils, eosinophils and monocytes without a change in lymphocytes or basophils. RBC, hemoglobin and MCV increased. LDL-C decreased, while HDL-C increased. There was no change in total protein or albumin. These data suggest that this combination of a low calorie vegan diet and fasting may contribute to improve RA with little undesirable effects on the patient's general conditions.
10435450	Genetic variation among the seventeen basmati rice accessions collected from the farmers' fields located at different places in India was analyzed using ten arbitrary tenmer oligonucleotide primers by the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) method. The number of polymorphic/monomorphic bands among the pairwise combinations of the accessions and the total number of bands were determined to categorize all the accessions in different groups of similarity and dissimilarity at the genetic level. The procedure described also allows the identification and discrimination of the individual genotypes of basmati rice including the identification of the duplicates in genetic resource collections.
10435480	We report on a 21-year-old atopic woman who developed urticaria, angioedema of the face, and wheezy dyspnea shortly after drinking beer and after eating a corn-made snack. Skin prick tests and specific IgE determinations to beer ingredients and cereal extracts were performed. Immunoblotting inhibition assays were carried out to investigate possible common allergens shared by barley and malt with corn. Skin prick tests and specific IgE measurements with beer, barley, malt, wheat, corn, rye, rice, and oat flour were positive. Ten pollen-allergic patients showed negative skin tests to beer. Double-blind, placebo-controlled, oral challenge tests with sodium metabisulfite and wheat flour were negative. Immunoblotting demonstrated several IgE-binding bands at 31-56 kDa in malt and barley extracts, and a major band at 38 kDa in the beer extract. Immunoblot inhibition assays showed that malt extract was able to inhibit most of the IgE-binding bands in wheat and corn extracts, whereas corn did not produce significant inhibition to barley and malt extracts. This patient developed type I hypersensitivity to barley/malt and corn. Although she also showed IgE reactivity to wheat and other cereals, no symptoms were elicited upon ingestion of these cereals, probably indicating latent sensitization to them.
10436205	Many radiopharmaceuticals and test meals that are used to measure gastric emptying are less than optimal. A vegetable-based solid meal, such as rice, labelled with a radiopharmaceutical that also has the capacity to measure gastric emptying of liquids, is likely to be ideal. The role of Technegas as a radioisotopic marker to measure gastric emptying of rice and liquids was evaluated. Technegas-labelled rice was incubated in 0.9% saline, 1 M HCl and simulated gastric fluid (3.2 g/l pepsinogen, pH 2-3) to assess stability of the label. In eight healthy volunteers gastric emptying of two meals - 200 g rice (370 kcal) and 75 g dextrose dissolved in 300 ml water (300 kcal), both labelled with 20 MBq of Technegas - was measured scintigraphically. Over 4 h, the average label stability was 93.7%+/-0.5% in 0.9% saline, 91.0%+/-0.4% in 1 M HCl and 93.6%+/-0.7% in simulated gastric juice. The lag phase was longer for rice than dextrose (25+/-7 min vs 4+/-2 min; P<0.05), but there was no difference in the post-lag emptying rate (2.1+/-0.3 kcal/min vs 1.7+/-0.2 kcal/min; P=0.2) between the two meals. We conclude that Technegas is a suitable radiopharmaceutical for measurement of gastric emptying of rice and nutrient-containing liquids.
10437831	cDNA clones encoding mitochondrial phosphate transporters were isolated from four herbaceous plants. The cDNAs for the soybean, maize and rice transporters contained entire coding regions, whereas the Arabidopsis cDNA lacked the 5' portion. The hydropathy profiles of the deduced amino acid sequences predicted the existence of six membrane-spanning domains which are highly conserved in the mitochondrial transporter family. In soybeans, the mRNA level for the transporter was high in tissues containing dividing cells. It was suggested that there are multiple copies of transporter genes in both dicots and monocots. The soybean transporter was expressed as inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli, solubilized with detergents, and then reconstituted into liposomes. The resulting proteoliposomes exhibited high phosphate transport activity. The activity was inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide, like those of mammalian phosphate transporters.
10443336	Phytoestrogens are a major component of Asian diets and may be protective against certain hormone-dependent cancers (breast and prostate) and coronary heart disease. They may also have antioxidant function in scavenging potentially harmful free radicals and thus decreasing oxidative attack on DNA. A pilot study to determine the effects of a phytoestrogen supplement, in the form of soy milk, on plasma LDL and HDL cholesterol levels and DNA damage in men. Ten healthy men participated in the study and were assigned to one of three groups consuming 1 litre of either soy milk, rice dream (vegetable protein control) or semi-skimmed cow's milk (animal protein control) each day for 4 weeks. The soy supplement caused significant increases in plasma genistein and daidzein concentrations despite considerable inter-individual variation (P < 0.001). Supplementation with soy resulted in a decrease in oxidative damage to DNA bases detected using the comet assay compared with controls (P < 0.05). However, there was no significant effect of the soy supplement on plasma cholesterol or triglyceride levels in comparison with control groups. A 4 week soy milk supplementation in healthy volunteers does not alter serum cholesterol levels but can have a protective effect against oxidative DNA damage in lymphocytes.
10443952	Although the high meat-low vegetable diet is considered the reference high-risk diet for colorectal cancer, particularly in USA communities, other at-risk dietary patterns, such as high intakes of processed meat and refined carbohydrates are emerging. Little is known about risk factors for colorectal cancer in France, a country at high risk of rectal cancer and moderately high risk of colon cancer. We compared diet of colorectal cancer cases (n = 171) and general population controls (n = 309) in Burgundy (France). Categories of intake were established by sex and based on the distributions of food intakes in controls. Odds ratios for the fourth vs first quartile of intake (OR4) were 2.0 (1.1-3.6) for refined cereal products (rice, pasta and pastry), 2.4 (1.3-4.5) for delicatessen, 2.3 (1.2-4.2) for pats, 1.7 (1.1-2.8) for offal and 2.1 (1.1-4.0) for butter, lard and cream. There was no association with consumption of fresh meat (OR4 = 1.2), fish (OR4 = 1.5), egg (OR4 = 1.1) or dairy products (OR4 = 1.0). A protective effect of vegetables was only observed for left colon cancer (OR3 = 0.3; 0.1-0.6). In men, the most significant risk factors were refined cereal products, seasoning animal fats, chocolate and coffee, whereas risk factors were delicatessen, fat meat, pasta, rice, and chocolate in women. The strong association with refined cereal products is consistent with the hypothesis of a role of hyperinsulinism in colorectal carcinogenesis. The association with processed but not fresh meat suggests the importance of exogenous carcinogenesis in that area.
10444090	Saline-soluble glycinins and insoluble glutelins are the major storage proteins in soybean (Glycine max) and rice (Oryza sativa), respectively. In spite of their differences in solubility properties, both proteins are members of the 11S globulin gene family based on their similarities in primary sequences and processing of the coded protein. Wild-type and methionine-modified glycinin coding sequences were expressed in transgenic rice plants under the control of the rice glutelin GluB-1 promoter. Glycinins were specifically synthesized in the endosperm tissue and co-localized with glutelins in type II protein bodies. They assembled into 7S and 11S species, similar to what was observed in developing soybean seeds. This pattern was quite different from that displayed by the rice glutelins in untransformed plants, in which processed subunits sedimenting at 2S were apparent. In glycinin-expressing transgenic plants, however, glutelins were observed sedimenting at 7S and 11S with lesser amounts in the 2S region. A portion of the glycinins was also found associated in the insoluble glutelin fraction. Renaturation experiments suggested that the hybrid glycinin-glutelin oligomers were formed through specific interactions. Overall, these results indicate that despite significant differences in the assembly of soybean glycinin and rice glutelin, both proteins can assemble with each other to form soluble hexameric oligomers or insoluble aggregates.
10444103	A MADS family gene, OsMADS6, was isolated from a rice (Oryza sativa L.) young flower cDNA library using OsAMDS1 as a probe. With this clone, various MADS box genes that encode for protein-to-protein interaction partners of the OsMADS6 protein were isolated by the yeast two-hybrid screening method. On the basis of sequence homology, OsMADS6 and the selected partners can be classified in the APETALA1/AGAMOUS-LIKE9 (AP1/AGL9) family. One of the interaction partners, OsMADS14, was selected for further study. Both genes began expression at early stages of flower development, and their expression was extended into the later stages. In mature flowers the OsMADS6 transcript was detectable in lodicules and also weakly in sterile lemmas and carpels, whereas the OsMADS14 transcript was detectable in sterile lemmas, paleas/lemmas, stamens, and carpels. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we demonstrated that the region containing of the 109th to 137th amino acid residues of OsMADS6 is indispensable in the interaction with OsMADS14. Site-directed mutation analysis revealed that the four periodical leucine residues within the region are essential for this interaction. Furthermore, it was shown that the 14 amino acid residues located immediately downstream of the K domain enhance the interaction, and that the two leucine residues within this region play an important role in that enhancement.
10449579	The phytochrome (phy) family of plant photoreceptors controls various aspects of photomorphogenesis. Overexpression of rice phyA-green fluorescent protein (GFP) and tobacco phyB-GFP fusion proteins in tobacco results in functional photoreceptors. phyA-GFP and phyB-GFP are localized in the cytosol of dark-adapted plants. In our experiments, red light treatment led to nuclear translocation of phyA-GFP and phyB-GFP, albeit with different kinetics. Red light-induced nuclear import of phyB-GFP, but not that of phyA-GFP, was inhibited by far-red light. Far-red light alone only induced nuclear translocation of phyA-GFP. These observations indicate that nuclear import of phyA-GFP is controlled by a very low fluence response, whereas translocation of phyB-GFP is regulated by a low fluence response of phytochrome. Thus, light-regulated nucleocytoplasmic partitioning of phyA and phyB is a major step in phytochrome signaling.
10450310	To examine how meals and snacks children consume before and after their time at a child-care facility complement the menu at the facility. Dietary intake of children at and away from the child-care center was compared with recommended standards for child nutrition. Registered dietitians observed foods consumed at the center during 3 consecutive days. Parents reported foods consumed away from the center during the same 3 days. Six nonprofit child-care centers with strong menus (i.e., menus that come close to meeting dietary recommendations) and 6 with menus supplying less than 50% of the Recommended Dietary Allowance were selected for study. Five families at each center were invited to participate. Complete data sets were obtained for 51 children aged 3 to 6 years. Descriptive and inferential statistics were calculated to compare the children's dietary intake during center time and family time and over a full day with recommended standards. Energy and nutrient profiles and food frequencies were included in the analysis. Children consumed plenty of foods at the center and away from the following groups: meat, poultry, fish, dry beans, eggs, nuts; milk, yogurt, cheese; and fruit, fruit juice. Most children failed to consume enough vegetables. Nearly all the children failed to consume enough bread, cereal, pasta, and rice, especially while at the center. The majority ate more than sparing amounts of fats, oils, and sweets, especially during family time. Average percentage of energy from fat was 33 +/- 4. Intakes of concern for the full day were energy, iron, sodium, and zinc. Child-care menus are an appropriate target for increasing iron and zinc by serving more cereal and whole grains. Families are an appropriate target for reducing young children's consumption of fats, oils, and sweets. Nutrition education and advocacy are needed to strengthen the partnership between parents and caregivers.
10450913	This study reports on the outcomes of an investigation designed to evaluate competing accounts of the nature of the grammatical limitations of children with specific language impairment (SLI) with a new comprehension measure involving well-formedness judgments. It is a follow-up to the longitudinal study of Rice, Wexler, and Hershberger (1998), which reported on the production of grammatical morphemes by young children with SLI and 2 control groups of children, one at equivalent levels of mean length of utterance at the outset of the study, the other of equivalent age. In this investigation, we report on grammaticality judgment measures collected from the same 3 groups of children over a period of 2 years for 5 times of measurement. It is the first longitudinal study of grammaticality judgments of children with SLI. The findings show that children's grammatical judgments parallel their productions: Children with SLI can make fine-tuned grammatical judgments to reject morphosyntactic errors they are unlikely to commit, whereas they accept morphosyntactic errors that they are likely to produce. The findings support the extended optional infinitive (EOI) account of morphosyntactic limitation based in underlying grammatical representations and do not support accounts of input processing deficits or production constraints.
10456320	Abscisic acid (ABA) is a plant hormone involved in many developmental and physiological processes, but as yet, no ABA receptor has been identified. Flow cytometry of rice protoplasts and immunoblotting of purified plasma membranes (PMs) have been used to demonstrate that the monoclonal antibody JIM19 recognizes carbohydrate epitopes of cell surface glycoproteins. Using surface plasmon resonance technology specific binding of PMs to JIM19 was observed. Such interaction was antagonized significantly by ABA, but not by the biologically inactive ABA catabolite phaseic acid. These in vitro interactions were correlated with the biological activities of JIM19, ABA and phaseic acid on activation of the ABA-inducible Em promoter using two different transient reporter gene assays, beta-glucuronidase/luciferase and quantitative flow cytometry of Aequoria green fluorescent protein. Pre-treatment with JIM19 resulted in significant inhibition of ABA-inducible gene expression. Taken together, these data suggest that JIM19 interacts with a functional PM complex involved in ABA signalling.
10456740	The microbiological quality of 4,162 samples of cooked rice from restaurants and take-away premises in the United Kingdom was examined, including ready-to-eat rice purchased at point-of-sale and rice that was stored precooked for reheating on demand. The majority of point-of-sale cooked rice samples (1,855 of 1,972; 94%) were of acceptable microbiological quality, but 15 (1%) samples were of unacceptable quality (Bacillus spp. and B. cereus, > or = 10(5) CFU/g; Escherichia coli, > or = 10(4) CFU/g), indicating a potential risk to health. The prevalence of Bacillus spp., B. cereus, and E. coli was significantly greater in precooked stored rice than in point-of-sale cooked rice (P < 0.005 to 0.0005). Bacillus spp. (> or = 10(4) CFU/g), B. cereus (> or = 10(4) CFU/g), and E. coli (> or = 10(2) CFU/g) were present in 7%, 2%, and 9% of precooked stored samples, respectively, compared to 2%, 0.5%, and 1%, respectively in point-of-sale samples. Although final heating at the point of sale reduces the levels of microorganisms present in rice it will not inactivate the B. cereus emetic toxin if present. Rice from Indian premises was of poorer microbiological quality than that from Chinese and other premises. Although most point-of-sale cooked rice samples (94%) were of an acceptable microbiological quality, evidence from this study indicates that the microbiological quality of cooked rice sold from certain outlets in the UK is of concern.
10457005	In order to evaluate the size of the Anopheles albitarsis s.l. population in the Ribeira Valley region of the south-eastern S. Paulo State, Brazil, marking-release-recapture experiments were carried out on the Experimental Farm in Pariquera-Au county where an artificial irrigation system for the cultivation of rice has been installed. The experiments aimed at determining the vectorial capacity of this species. During the summer (January, February and March), three marking-release-recapture experiments with field and laboratory reared populations were conducted to evaluate the population size. Simultaneous human bait collections were also carried out to estimate the human biting rate. The population sizes of the three experiments were estimated to be 64,560, 50,503 and 22,684 mosquitoes. The bite/man/night rate varied from 41.5 to 524,5. The results indicated high mosquito density in the summer which allow one to infer that, even though the survival rate is low, the number of remaining females is large enough to outlive the parasite's extrinsic developmental period.
10459000	The combination of mutational and molecular studies has shed light on the role of reactive oxygen intermediates and programmed cell death in cereal disease resistance mechanisms. Rice Rac1 and barley Rar1 represent conserved disease resistance signalling genes, which may have related functions in animals. The analysis of non-pathogenic Magnaporthe grisea mutants may provide novel tools to study host defence pathways.
10460212	We investigated the effects of Chlorella on fecal excretion of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin (PCDD) congeners and polychlorinated dibenzofuran (PCDF) congeners in Wistar rats administered the rice oil that caused Yusho disease, as a substitute for purified dioxin. The rats were fed 4 g of a control diet or a 10% Chlorella diet containing 0.2 mL of the rice oil once during the 5-d experimental period. The amounts of PCDD and PCDF congeners excreted in feces from d 1 to 5 in the group fed 10% Chlorella were 0.2-11.3 and 0.3-12.8 times greater (P < 0.05), respectively, than those of the control group. We then investigated the fecal excretion of PCDD and PCDF congeners from d 8 to 35 in rats administered 0.5 mL of the rice oil. Rats consumed the basal diet for 1 wk. After 1 wk, they consumed either the basal diet or the 10% Chorella diet. The fecal excretions of PCDD and PCDF congeners in the group fed 10% Chlorella were 0.3-3.4 and 0.5-2.5 times greater (most, P < 0.05), respectively, than those of the control group. Thus, the fecal excretions of PCDD and PCDF congeners were greater in rats fed Chlorella. These findings suggest that the administration of Chlorella may be useful in preventing gastrointestinal absorption and for promoting the excretion of dioxin already absorbed into tissues. Moreover, these findings suggest that Chlorella might be useful in the treatment of humans exposed to dioxin.
10461997	Cereal grains represent 30 to 60% of the DM of many companion animal diets. Once incorporated into a diet, the starch component of these grains can provide an excellent source of ME. However, crystallinity and form of starch are variable and can cause incomplete digestion within the gastrointestinal tract. Diets fed in this experiment included one of six high-starch flours as the main source of carbohydrate. The flours originated from barley, corn, potato, rice, sorghum, and wheat. The diets were extruded and kibbled. Starch fraction concentrations of flours consisted of nearly 100% rapidly digestible starch (RDS) and slowly digestible starch (SDS) combined. Starch fraction concentrations of diets paralleled concentrations in flours. Flours varied widely in concentrations of CP, fat, starch, and total dietary fiber. Ileal OM and CP digestibilities were lowest for the potato flour treatment (74 and 64%, respectively). Ileal and total tract starch digestibilities were different (P<.05) among treatments; however, the starch component of all diets was nearly completely digested (>99%). Total tract digestibility of DM and OM was lowest for sorghum (80 and 84%, respectively) compared to all other diets. Crude protein digestibility was highest for corn (87%). Wet fecal weights tended (P<.08) to be greatest for dogs fed the barley treatment (175 g/d). However, dry fecal weights (dried at 55 degrees C) were greatest for dogs consuming the sorghum diet (51 g/d). Fecal scores were consistently greater (i.e., looser stools) for the barley treatment. Any of these flours could be used without negative effects on digestion at either the ileum or in the total tract. Fecal consistency data for dogs consuming the barley treatment indicate that diets containing large amounts (>50%) of barley may not be advantageous for dog owners who house their animals indoors for most of the day.
10462237	Plant seeds offer unique opportunities for the production and delivery of oral subunit vaccines. We have used the immunodominant glycoprotein B complex of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), introduced into tobacco plants, as a model system for studying the merit of this promising approach. Given the advantages of expressing proteins in seeds, a novel expression vector was developed incorporating regulatory sequences of glutelin, the major rice seed storage protein, to direct synthesis of recombinant glycoprotein B. Analysis of genomic DNA of 28 selected tobacco transformants by PCR amplification showed that 71% harboured the gB cDNA, a finding further documented by Southern blotting. Specific immunoassays of protein extracts from seeds of positive plants showed that all were producing antigenic glycoprotein B at levels ranging from 70-146 ng/mg extracted protein. In addition, similarity with native glycoprotein B produced in HCMV-infected cells was also demonstrated by inhibition of immunofluorescence on HCMV-infected human fibroblasts. These data are the first to report the expression of an immunodominant antigen of HCMV in plant tissues, indicating the fidelity with which this very large heterologous viral glycoprotein can be synthesized in this model system.
10464789	In the 1960s there were large-scale concerns about the world's ability to feed itself. However, widespread adoption of "green revolution" technology led to major increases in food-grain production. Between 1966 and 1990, the population of the densely populated low-income countries grew by 80%, but food production more than doubled. The technological advance that led to the dramatic achievements in world food production over the last 30 years was the development of high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice. These varieties are responsive to fertilizer inputs, are lodging resistant, and their yield potential is 2-3 times that of varieties available prior to the green revolution. In addition, these varieties have multiple resistance to diseases and insects and thus have yield stability. The development of irrigation facilities, the availability of inorganic fertilizers, and benign government policies have all facilitated the adoption of green-revolution technology. In the 1990s, the rate of growth in food-grain production has been lower than the rate of growth in population. If this trend is not reversed, serious food shortages will occur in the next century. To meet the challenge of feeding 8 billion people by 2020, we have to prepare now and develop the technology for raising farm productivity. We have to develop cereal cultivars with higher yield potential and greater yield stability. We must also develop strategies for integrated nutrient management, integrated pest management, and efficient utilization of water and soil resources.
10465396	1. The efficiency of utilisation of metabolisable energy (ME) for maintenance (k(m)) from diets containing maize and broken rice (BR) at 500 g/kg was studied in old White Leghorn (WL) and Rhode Island Red (RIR) laying hens using the respiration calorimetry technique. The maize-based diet contained 180.8 g crude protein (CP)/kg and 16.4 MJ gross energy (GE)/kg while the BR-based diet contained 173.2 g CP/kg and 16.3 MJ GE/kg. Diets were fed for 10 d, while an energy and nitrogen metabolism study was conducted during 3 d on an ad libitum-fed diet followed by another 3 d on two-thirds of the ad libitum-fed quantity. 2. ME values for the maize- and BR-based diets for WL hens were 73.3% and 77.6% of the GE, whereas for the RIR hens these were 77.7% and 80.0%, respectively. 3. Fasting heat productions, determined at the end of 24 h fast for WL and RIR hens were 473.2 and 366.1 kJ/kg W0.75/d, respectively. During fasting WL and RIR hens utilised body energy reserves with efficiencies of 84.9% and 73.7%, respectively. 4. The k(m) of maize- and BR-based diets for the WL hens were 81.6% and 79.6%, whereas for the RIR hens these were 74.2% and 76.0%, respectively. 5. ME for maintenance of WL and RIR hens were 589 and 499.6 kJ/kg W0.75/d, respectively. 6. It is concluded that although WL and RIR hens differ significantly in energy metabolism, their efficiency of utilisation of energy from maize- and BR-based diets are similar.
10465897	By using RAPD primer mediated asymmetric PCR (RM-PCR) method, a new type of molecular marker based on the telomeric repeats sequence was developed. PCR-based genetic mapping of telomeric repeat associated sequences (TASs) was conducted with a rice doubled haploid (DH) population derived from the inter-subspecific cross between indica variety (Zhaiyeqing8) and japonica variety (Jingxil7). Twenty-three loci were mapped onto the genetic map. Of these loci, 12 loci were mapped to the most distal position of eight chromosome arms and some of which may be located in subtelomeric region, five loci were mapped to the approximate positions of centromeric regions and six loci were mapped to other interstitial chromosomal regions.
10465898	Rice (Oriza sativa L.) suspension cells of Taipei 309 were co-cultivated with A. tumefaciens stran EHA101 harbouring binary vector pBYT2 for 3 days in the presence of vir inducer, 100 mumol/L acetosyringone (AS). After 2 months of continuous selection, 17 stable hygromycin-resistant, GUS-positive calli were recovered from 364 suspension cell clusters co-cultivated with A. tumefaciens. 10 putative transgenic R0 plants obtained from 8 tansformed calli and their progenies were analyzed for the integration and expression of foreign genes. Southern blot analysis of R0 and R1 generations indicated that foreign genes had been stably integrated in the genome of transgenic rice and sexually transmitted. One of the transgenic lines showed 5 copies of T-DNA integration, while the others had only one copy. Histochemical staining observation and fluorometric assay of GUS activity in transgenic rice cells and plants showed ubiquitin promoter from maize was highly effective in driving the expression of gus reporter gene in transgenic rice cells. GUS protein and its activity were also investigated through ndPAGE-X-Gluc staining assay, and it was found that the GUS protein in transgenic rice cells was smaller in size than the standard GUS protein (Sigma Co. G0786) but as large as that from E.coli HB101 (pBI121). This study suggested that Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of plant is an efficient and reliable method to introduce foreign genes into rice.
10466822	In plant pararetroviruses, pregenomic RNA (pgRNA) directs synthesis of circular double-stranded viral DNA and serves as a polycistronic mRNA. By computer-aided analysis, the 14 plant pararetroviruses sequenced so far were compared with respect to structural organization of their pgRNA 5'-leader. The results revealed that the pgRNA of all these viruses carries a long leader sequence containing several short ORFs and having the potential to form a large stem-loop structure; both features are known to be inhibitory for downstream translation. Formation of the structure brings the first long ORF into the close spatial vicinity of a 5'-proximal short ORF that terminates 5 to 10 nt upstream of the stable structural element. The first long ORF on the pgRNA is translated by a ribosome shunt mechanism discovered in cauliflower mosaic (CaMV) and rice tungro bacilliform viruses, representing the two major groups of plant pararetroviruses. Both the short ORF and the structure have been implicated in the shunt process for CaMV pgRNA translation. The conservation of these elements among all plant pararetroviruses suggests conservation of the ribosome shunt mechanism. For some of the less well-studied viruses, the localization of the conserved elements also allowed predictions of the pgRNA promoter region and the translation start site of the first long ORF.
10466823	The DNA of three biological variants, G1, Ic and G2, which originated from the same greenhouse isolate of rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) at the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), was cloned and sequenced. Comparison of the sequences revealed small differences in genome sizes. The variants were between 95 and 99% identical at the nucleotide and amino acid levels. Alignment of the three genome sequences with those of three published RTBV sequences (Phi-1, Phi-2 and Phi-3) revealed numerous nucleotide substitutions and some insertions and deletions. The published RTBV sequences originated from the same greenhouse isolate at IRRI 20, 11 and 9 years ago. All open reading frames (ORFs) and known functional domains were conserved across the six variants. The cysteine-rich region of ORF3 showed the greatest variation. When the six DNA sequences from IRRI were compared with that of an isolate from Malaysia (Serdang), similar changes were observed in the cysteine-rich region in addition to other nucleotide substitutions and deletions across the genome. The aligned nucleotide sequences of the IRRI variants and Serdang were used to analyse phylogenetic relationships by the bootstrapped parsimony, distance and maximum-likelihood methods. The isolates clustered in three groups: Serdang alone; Ic and G1; and Phi-1, Phi-2, Phi-3 and G2. The distribution of phylogenetically informative residues in the IRRI sequences shared with the Serdang sequence and the differing tree topologies for segments of the genome suggested that recombination, as well as substitutions and insertions or deletions, has played a role in the evolution of RTBV variants. The significance and implications of these evolutionary forces are discussed in comparison with badnaviruses and caulimoviruses.
10466971	Malaria transmission by anopheline mosquitoes was studied in a traditional tank-irrigation-based rice-producing village in the malaria-endemic low country dry zone of northcentral Sri Lanka during the period August 1994-February 1997. Adult mosquitoes were collected from human and bovid bait catches, bovid-baited trap huts, indoor catches, and pit traps. Mosquito head-thoraces were tested for the presence of Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax, and blood-engorged abdomens for the presence of human blood by ELISAs. House surveys were done at two-day intervals to record cases of blood film-confirmed malaria among the villagers. A total of 7,823 female anophelines representing 14 species were collected. Trends in anopheline abundance were significantly correlated with rainfall of the preceding month in An. annularis, An. barbirostris, An. subpictus, An. vagus, and An. varuna, but were not significant in An. culicifacies and An. peditaeniatus. Malaria parasite infections were seen in seven mosquito species, with 75% of the positive mosquitoes containing P. falciparum and 25% P. vivax. Polymorph PV247 was recorded from a vector (i.e., An. varuna) for the first time in Sri Lanka. Computations of mean number of infective vector (MIV) rates using abundance, circumsporozoite (CS) protein rate, and human blood index (HBI) showed the highest rate in An. culicifacies. A malaria outbreak occurred from October 1994 to January 1995 in which 45.5% of village residents experienced at least a single disease episode. Thereafter, malaria incidence remained low. Anopheles culicifacies abundance lagged by one month correlated positively with monthly malaria incidence during the outbreak period, and although this species ranked fifth in terms of abundance, infection was associated with a high MIV rate due to a high CS protein rate and HBI. Abundance trends in other species did not correlate significantly with malaria. It was concluded that An. culicifacies was epidemiologically the most important vector in the study area.
10467032	A full-length cDNA (designated rcaII) encoding the Rubisco activase (RCA) of rice (Oryza sativa L.) has been cloned from a cDNA library constructed with mRNA from green leaves. Sequence analysis resulted in a reading frame of 432 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 47.9 kDa and an estimated isoelectric point of 5.97. The deduced amino acid sequence showed 74-89% identity with other Rubisco activases from higher plants. Two highly conserved motifs were identified. Southern blot analysis suggested the presence of a single rca gene in the rice genome. The accumulation of leaf rca mRNA was found to be regulated by an oscillating circadian rhythm, in rice plants grown in a light-dark photoperiod. To purify the rice RCA protein, total soluble protein from rice green leaves was fractionated by ammonium sulfate precipitation, followed by preparative gel electrophoresis. Two polypeptides, designated RCAI and RCAII, were isolated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and further confirmed by N-terminal sequencing. The polyclonal antibodies prepared against rice RCAI and RCAII were found to cross-react with two RCA polypeptides present in leaf extracts of spinach and tobacco. Furthermore, two different 3' ends of rca mRNA were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis. These cDNA fragments and the related genomic DNA fragment were cloned and sequenced. The sequence of rcaI is almost identical to the corresponding sequence of rcaII, except for its having 33 additional amino acids at the C-terminal portion. It can be concluded that a novel alternative splicing mechanism for a common rca mRNA precursor near the 3' end exists in rice plants.
10468600	A rice Dwarf 1 gene was identified by using a map-based cloning strategy. Its recessive mutant allele confers a dwarf phenotype. Linkage analysis revealed that a cDNA encoding the alpha-subunit of GTP-binding protein cosegregated with d1 in 3,185 d1 segregants. Southern hybridization analysis with this cDNA as a probe showed different band patterns in several d1 mutant lines. In at least four independent d1 mutants, no gene transcript was observed by Northern hybridization analysis. Sequencing analysis revealed that an 833-bp deletion had occurred in one of the mutant alleles, which resulted in an inability to express GTP-binding protein. A transgenic d1 mutant with GTP-binding protein gene restored the normal phenotype. We conclude that the rice Dwarf 1 gene encodes GTP-binding protein and that the protein plays an important role in plant growth and development. Because the d1 mutant is classified as gibberellin-insensitive, we suggest that the GTP-binding protein might be associated with gibberellin signal transduction.
10469191	Duodenal ulcer (DU) patients exhibit raised postprandial gastrin release as compared to that in healthy controls. It is believed that serum pepsinogen I (PG I) concentration reflects the chief cell mass and that hyperpepsinogenemia I plays an important role in the pathogenesis of DU. Currently, strong evidence suggests that Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection plays an important role in the pathogenesis of DU. Subjects consisted of 15 patients with H. pylori-positive DU, 10 H. pylori-positive volunteers, and 35 H. pylori-negative volunteers. Blood samples were taken before and at 15, 30, and 60 minutes after eating the test meal, which consisted of 100 gm rice, 130 gm chicken, and 1 egg. The 1-hour integrated gastrin response (IGR) was taken as the area under the serum gastrin time curve, calculated by the trapezoid method. Serum gastrin (SG) and fasting serum PG I concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay. Meal-stimulated SG response and fasting PG I concentration were significantly higher in DU patients than in H. pylori-positive and -negative volunteers. The DU patients were divided into two groups in accordance with their IGR levels as follows: hyper-IGR and normo-IGR. Serum PG I concentration was significantly higher in the hyper-IGR than in the normo-IGR group. The DU patients differed in some way (other than H. pylori infection) from the H. pylori-positive healthy volunteers. The fact that hyper-IGR DU patients had higher serum PG I concentrations suggests that patients in this group may be acid hypersecretors.
10469256	We developed a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assay that distinguished five different biotypes of the Asian gall midge (Orseolia oryzae), a major insect pest of rice. A total of 400 random primers were screened using random amplified polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs). Five diagnostic PCR products were isolated, cloned, sequenced and converted to sequence characterized amplified regions (SCARs). Primers specific to these SCARs were able to amplify specific DNA fragments from genomic DNAs of five biotypes of gall midge in a multiplexed-PCR-based assay. The amplified DNA fragments were used as diagnostic markers to identify different biotypes of gall midge. The SCAR primers were also capable of differentiating the Asian from the African rice gall midge (Orseolia oryzivora) as well as detecting a variant of biotype 5 which caused an outbreak in Kerala, India. Unlike the use of plant host differentials and midge feeding behaviour for identifying biotypes, this assay is fast, reliable and unaffected by environmental factors.
10469647	Flowering of Arabidopsis is promoted by long days and delayed by short days. Mutations in the GIGANTEA (GI) gene delay flowering under long days but have little or no effect under short days. We have now isolated the GI gene and show that it encodes a novel, putative membrane protein. By comparing the sequence of the Arabidopsis gene with that of a likely rice orthologue and by sequencing mutant alleles, we identify regions of the GI protein that are likely to be important for its function. We show that GI expression is regulated by the circadian clock with a peak in transcript levels 8-10 h after dawn. The timing, height and duration of this peak are influenced by daylength. We analysed the interactions between GI and the LHY, CCA1 and ELF3 genes, previously shown to affect daylength responses; we show that the rhythmic pattern of GI expression is altered in the elf3, CCA1-OX and lhy genotypes, and that CCA1 and LHY expression are reduced by gi mutations. Our results are consistent with the idea that GI plays an important role in regulating the expression of flowering time genes during the promotion of flowering by photoperiod.
10470849	A rice cDNA encoding a novel calmodulin-like protein was identified. It has 38 additional amino acids at the C-terminus of a complete, typical calmodulin (CaM) sequence of 149 amino acids. The four C-terminal amino acid residues form a CAAL motif which could be a site for protein prenylation and may subsequently cause the protein to become membrane associated. RT-PCR analysis confirmed that such a combined protein gene truly exists in rice. Sequence analysis of its genomic counterpart showed that there is an intron located at junction of the normal CaM sequence and the 38 C-terminal amino acids. This introduces a potential stop codon for normal CaM if an alternative splicing mechanism is involved. Southern blot analysis of rice genomic DNA revealed that there is only one locus for this gene. The northern blot analysis showed that this gene is highly expressed in rice roots, shoots and flowers. The distribution of this protein demonstrates the functional importance of this novel CaM-like protein in rice.
10471726	Corn and rice genetic linkage map alignments were extended and refined by the addition of 262 new, reciprocally mapped maize cDNA loci. Twenty chromosomal rearrangements were identified in maize relative to rice and these included telomeric fusions between rice linkage groups, nested insertion of rice linkage groups, intrachromosomal inversions, and a nonreciprocal translocation. Maize genome evolution was inferred relative to other species within the Panicoideae and a progenitor maize genome with eight linkage groups was proposed. Conservation of composite linkage groups indicates that the tetrasomic state arose during maize evolution either from duplication of one progenitor corn genome (autoploidy) or from a cross between species that shared the composite linkages observed in modern maize (alloploidy). New evidence of a quadruplicated homeologous segment on maize chromosomes 2 and 10, and 3 and 4, corresponded to the internally duplicated region on rice chromosomes 11 and 12 and suggested that this duplication in the rice genome predated the divergence of the Panicoideae and Oryzoideae subfamilies. Charting of the macroevolutionary steps leading to the modern maize genome clarifies the interpretation of intercladal comparative maps and facilitates alignments and genomic cross-referencing of genes and phenotypes among grass family members.
10471902
10471936	Plastid transformation in higher plants is accomplished through a gradual process, during which all the 300-10,000 plastid genome copies are uniformly altered. Antibiotic resistance genes incorporated in the plastid genome facilitate maintenance of transplastomes during this process. Given the high number of plastid genome copies in a cell, transformation unavoidably yields chimeric tissues, which requires the identification of transplastomic cells in order to regenerate plants. In the chimeric tissue, however, antibiotic resistance is not cell autonomous: transplastomic and wild-type sectors both have a resistant phenotype because of phenotypic masking by the transgenic cells. We report a system of marker genes for plastid transformation, termed FLARE-S, which is obtained by translationally fusing aminoglycoside 3"-adenyltransferase with the Aequorea victoria green fluorescent protein. 3"-adenyltransferase (FLARE-S) confers resistance to both spectinomycin and streptomycin. The utility of FLARE-S is shown by tracking segregation of individual transformed and wild-type plastids in tobacco and rice plants after bombardment with FLARE-S vector DNA and selection for spectinomycin and streptomycin resistance, respectively. This method facilitates the extension of plastid transformation to nongreen plastids in embryogenic cells of cereal crops.
10472593
10472841	In order to accurately formulate diets for broilers and laying hens to meet phosphorus requirements without overfeeding, precise knowledge of an individual feed ingredient's contribution to the retainable phosphorus is needed. Seven feed ingredients, included as the sole source of phosphorus, were tested with and without the addition of 600 phytase units (FTU) phytase/kg diet, in a 5-d bioassay with 10 22-d-old male broilers. Without addition of phytase, the amounts of phytate phosphorus hydrolyzed in corn, soybean meal, wheat, wheat midds, barley, defatted rice bran, and canola were 30.8, 34.9, 30.7, 29.1, 32.2, 33.2, and 36.7%, respectively. The addition of phytase increased (P < or = 0.05) each value to 59.0, 72.4, 46.8, 52.2, 71.3, 48.0, and 55.8%, respectively. The addition of phytase increased total phosphorus retention from 34.8, 27.0, 16.0, 31.9, 40.3, 15.5, and 39.4% to 40.9, 58.0, 33.8, 43.4, 55.5, 26.5, and 45.7%, respectively. A similar bioassay was conducted with laying hens fed corn, soybean meal, and defatted rice bran. Without phytase addition, phytate phosphorus hydrolyzed in soybean meal, corn, and rice bran was determined to be 25.7, 23.0, and 36.1%, respectively, and was increased (P < or = 0.05) to 62.4, 52.0, and 50.9%, respectively, with the addition of 300 FTU phytase/kg feed. Total phosphorus retention of soybean meal, corn, and rice bran increased from 36.8, 28.6, and 35.9% to 53.4, 44.7, and 43.0%, respectively, with the addition of phytase.
10473800	The objective of the study was to corroborate or refute the hypothesis that farmers having a high intake of organic grown commodities have a high semen quality due to their expected lower level of dietary pesticides intake. Food frequency data and semen were collected from 256 farmers (171 traditional farmers and 85 organic farmers, overall participation rate: 32%) who were selected from central registers. Each farmer delivered one semen sample before the spraying season started. The farmers were divided into three groups where the commodities from organic production contributed no (N, 0%), medium (M, 1-49%), or a high (H, 50-100%) proportion of the fruit and vegetables consumed. Farmers having a high relative intake of organically grown fruit and vegetables also had a high relative consumption of organically produced meat, milk, and bread, and differences were observed comparing the actual mean intake of single commodities, such as rice, potato, and pork meat. The current individual dietary intake of 40 pesticides was estimated using food frequencies and generalized serving size data in combination with data on pesticide concentrations in food commodities as obtained from the National Danish Food Monitoring Program. The estimated pesticide intake was significantly lower among farmers of group H, but for all three groups of farmers the average dietary intake of 40 pesticides was at or below 1% of the acceptable daily intake (ADI) except for the dithiocarbamates (max = 0.21 microg/kg day = 2.2% ADI), methidathion, (max = 0.01 microg/kg day = 1.4% ADI), and 2-phenylphenol (max = 0.21 microg/kg day = 1.1% ADI). The median sperm concentration for the three groups of farmers was not significantly different (p = 0.40, median sperm concentration was N = 62, M = 44, and H = 75 million/ml). The group of men without organic food intake had a significant lower proportion of morphologically normal spermatozoa, but in relation to 14 other semen parameters no significant differences were found between the groups. Intake of 40 individual pesticides was correlated with four semen parameters (concentration, percentage dead spermatozoa, percentage normal sperm heads, and motility [VCL]). Five significant correlations (p value 0.01) were found among the 160 comparisons in relation to percentage dead spermatozoa: azinphos-methyl, carbaryl, chlorfenson, fenitrothion, and tetradifon. For all of them a lower percentage of dead spermatozoa were found in the groups with a high dietary intake of the specific pesticide. In contrast, for all pesticides evaluated only minor differences were found between the groups when considering spermatozoa concentration, morphology, and motility. In conclusion, the estimated dietary intake of 40 pesticides did not entail a risk of impaired semen quality, but precautions should be taken when generalizing this negative result to populations with a higher dietary exposure level or an intake of other groups of pesticides.
10475847
10476750	A case-control study was conducted in four hospitals in northeastern Thailand to identify risk factors for melioidosis and bacteremic melioidosis. Cases were patients with culture-proven melioidosis, and there were two types of controls (those with infections, i.e., with community-acquired septicemia caused by other bacteria, and those without infection, i.e., randomly selected patients admitted with noninfectious diseases to the same hospitals). Demographic data, clinical presentations, and suspected risk factors were analyzed. Diabetes mellitus, preexisting renal diseases, thalassemia, and occupational exposure, classified by the soil and water risk assessment, were confirmed to be significant risk factors for melioidosis and bacteremic melioidosis. Only diabetes mellitus was a significant factor associated with bacteremic melioidosis, as compared with nonbacteremia. A significant interaction was found between diabetes mellitus and occupational exposure. Thus, diabetic rice farmers would be the most appropriate population group for targeted control measures such as vaccination in the future.
10478442	The effects of a mixture of organisms on cecal fermentation and cholesterol metabolism in sham-operated and cecectomized rats were investigated. Male F344 rats, allocated into four groups: cecectomized rats fed a mixture of organisms (CEMO), cecectomized rats fed rice bran (CERB), sham-operated rats fed a mixture of organisms (SHMO), and sham-operated rats fed rice bran (SHRB) for 4 weeks. The diets had 0.5% cholesterol and 0.125% sodium cholate added. There were no significant differences in the body weight gain and food intake among the groups. The cecal pH in the SHMO group was significantly lower than that in the other groups. The total cholesterol and (VLDL + IDL + LDL)-cholesterol concentrations in serum were significantly lower in the SHMO group than that in the SHRB group, and the triacylglycerol concentration in the sham-operated rats tended to decrease compared to the cecectomized rats. The fecal cholesterol excretion in the CERB group was higher than that in the other groups, and that in the SHMO group was significantly higher than in the SHRB group. The acetic acid, propionic acid, n-butyric acid, and total short-chain fatty acid concentrations in the cecum contents were significantly higher in the SHMO group than those in the other groups. Streptococcus, Bifidobacterium, and Lactobacillus in the SHMO group tended to be higher than the other groups and Bacteroidaceae in the CEMO and CERB groups were significantly higher than that in the SHMO group. The results demonstrate that the mixture of organisms was fermented with the cecal contents and that the metabolites such as short-chain fatty acid lowered the serum total cholesterol and liver cholesterol concentrations in the rats fed a cholesterol-containing diet.
10479758	The antihyperglycaemic interaction (blend effect) of component crude drugs included in a traditional Chinese prescription, Byakko-ka-ninjin-to (BN; consisted of five crude drugs, ginseng, anemarrhena,-licorice, gypsum and rice) was investigated using genetically obese diabetic KK-CA(y) mice and alloxan-diabetic mice. The water extract of ginseng, anemarrhena, licorice and gypsum when individually tested markedly lowered blood glucose levels in diabetic animals. Antihyperglycaemic effects of ginseng-anemarrhena and ginseng-licorice combinations were decreased compared with the respective individual-effects. Such decreased effects were partially reversed by adding gypsum or by substituting CaCl(2) for gypsum. The combination of D-O-ANa and glycyrrhizin, respectively the main constituents from ginseng and licorice, also demonstrated a decreased effect compared with the respective individual effects. The CaCl(2) at 0.5 mg/kg (i.p.) was sufficient to partially reverse these effects. These results indicate that antihyperglycaemic effects of BN depend on four crude drugs and Ca(2+) in the blend.
10480383	One of the major abiotic stresses that affect plant growth and development is anoxia or hypoxia. Plants respond to anoxia by regulation of gene expression at both the transcriptional and translational levels. Genes involved in such regulation are expected to be expressed soon after onset of anoxia. To date, however, anaerobically regulated genes that have been characterized predominantly encode enzymes for sugar phosphate metabolism, and are induced after several hours of anaerobic conditions. Early induced genes, those responding after 1-2 h of anoxia, have not been studied extensively. To study the early anaerobic response we investigated the most flooding-tolerant variety of rice, FR13A (flood-resistant). We used differential display techniques to identify cDNA fragments representing mRNAs that are induced within 90 min of anoxia. We isolated two cDNA fragments and one full-length cDNA that were induced to high levels. These cDNAs were found to be members of a family of 2-3 genes, which were called the aie (anaerobically inducible early) gene family. Northern blot analyses showed that the mRNA levels of aie genes peaked after 1.5 to 3 h of anoxia and were still at high levels after 72 h of anoxia. RNase protection assays showed 4-5 different protected bands indicating multiple transcripts from the aie gene family. Sequence analyses of the full-length cDNA showed an open reading frame that putatively encodes a 14 kDa protein of 127 amino acid residues. Neither the nucleotide nor the deduced amino acid sequences of this gene showed any significant homology to any known genes or proteins present in the GenBank or SwissProt databases. This novel gene, that is induced so early under anoxia in plants, may play an important role in plant metabolism under anaerobic conditions.
10480395	Granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS), a product of the waxy gene in rice (Oryza sativa L.), is necessary for the synthesis of amylose in the endosperm. In an extended pedigree of 89 rice cultivars, we have previously shown that all cultivars with more than 18% amylose had the sequence AGGTATA at the leader intron 5' splice site, while all cultivars with a lower proportion of amylose had the sequence AGTTATA. This single-nucleotide polymorphism reduces the efficiency of GBSS pre-mRNA processing. It also results in alternate splicing at multiple sites, some of which have non-consensus sequences. Here we demonstrate that this same G-to-T polymorphism is also associated with differential sensitivity to temperature during the period of grain development. Cultivars with the sequence AGTTATA have a substantial increase in accumulation of mature GBSS transcripts at 18 degrees C compared to 25 or 32 degrees C. The selection of leader intron 5' splice sites is also affected by temperature in these cultivars. A 5' splice site -93 upstream from that used in high-amylose varieties predominates at 18 degrees C. At higher temperatures there is increased utilization of a 5' splice site at -I and a non-consensus site at +1. Potential implications of differential 5' splice site selection and associated differences in 3' splice site selection on transcript stability and translational efficiency are discussed.
10481086	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes a serious disease of rice called bacterial leaf blight. It produces copious amounts of extracellular polysaccharide (EPS). An EPS- and virulence-deficient mutant of X. oryzae pv. oryzae was isolated by Tn5 mutagenesis. The mutant allele in this strain was cloned by transposon tagging in the Escherichia coli vector pBluescript and the DNA sequences flanking the transposon insertion site were determined. Computer-based similarity searches in the DNA database using the BLAST algorithm showed these sequences to be 78% identical at the nucleotide level to a gene, gumG, in the gum cluster, which is required for EPS biosynthesis in Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris. A 36-kb X. oryzae pv. oryzae genomic clone containing the putative EPS biosynthetic gene cluster of X. oryzae pv. oryzae restored both EPS production and virulence proficiency to the gumGXo::Tn5 mutant. The results suggest that EPS is an important virulence factor of X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
10481290	Thirty-four isolates of the eight most common Fusarium species isolated from Norwegian cereals; F. avenaceum, F. culmorum, F. equiseti, F. graminearum, F. poae, F. sporotrichioides, F. torulosum and F. tricinctum were studied for their cytotoxicity and ability to produce mycotoxins. The strains were cultivated on rice, and analysed for trichothecenes (all species), zearalenone (all species), fusarochromanone (F. equiseti), wortmannin (F. torulosum), moniliformin and enniatins (F. avenaceum, F. tricinctum and F. torulosum). The cytotoxicity of the extracts were examined with an (in vitro) MTT-cell culture assay. All F. graminearum and five of seven F. culmorum isolates belonged to chemotype IA, producing deoxynivalenol and 3-acetyl-deoxynivalenol, while the two other F. culmorum strains were nivalenol producers (chemotype II). The F. equiseti isolates and one of the F. poae isolates produced both type A and B trichothecenes, and relatively large quantities of fusarochromanone were detected in the F. equiseti cultures. All Fusarium species studied showed significant cytotoxicity, but with a large variation between species, and also within each species. F. sporotrichioides and F. equiseti showed the highest average cytotoxicity.
10481743	In vivo and in vitro phosphorylation and intracellular location of rice dwarf phytoreovirus Pns12, which is encoded by one of the twelve dsRNA genome segments, S12, and comprises 312 amino acids, was investigated. When [32P]phosphoric acid was incorporated into RDV-infected leafhopper cultured cells, labelled Pns12 was immunoprecipitated from the cells by a monospecific anti-Pns12 polyclonal antibody. Recombinant Pns12 was purified from Spodoptera frugiperda cells infected with AcRS12, a baculovirus recombinant carrying a full-length cDNA of RDV S12. Purified Pns12 was also demonstrated to be phosphorylated in vitro by a kinase activity present in host (rice, barley, wheat, leafhopper) cells and non-host (tobacco, spinach, white clover, S. frugiperda, mosquito, mammals) cells as well. Immunocytochemical studies showed Pns12 accumulated in the cytoplasm of infected cells, and frequently localized in a slightly electron-dense patch. These results demonstrated that RDV Pns12 was a cytoplasmic nonstructural phosphoprotein.
10483103	A simple mathematical model describing the cell cycle dependency of rice alpha-amylase production by a recombinant yeast was constructed to investigate the efficiency of cell cycle population control. First, the effects of the glucose concentration and cultivation temperature on the specific growth rate, the specific production rate of rice alpha-amylase, and the distribution of the cell cycle population were studied under balanced growth conditions. On the basis of the results, parameter values for the mathematical model were then estimated. The proposed model was shown to be applicable for unbalanced as well as balanced growth phases. The optimal control strategy in respect of temperature and glucose concentration for maximum rice alpha-amylase production, taking into account the cell cycle population, was determined and the result was compared with that obtained by a simple mathematical model in which cell cycle distribution was not considered. Finally, the effect of the initial population of each cell cycle phase on the final amount of the product under optimal operational conditions was investigated. The simulation and experimental data coincided well with each other, and the model was used to optimize the control strategy for maximum alpha-amylase production.
10485927	Cell death plays important roles in the development and defense of plants as in other multicellular organisms. Rapid production of reactive oxygen species often is associated with plant defense against pathogens, but their molecular mechanisms are not known. We introduced the constitutively active and the dominant negative forms of the small GTP-binding protein OsRac1, a rice homolog of human Rac, into the wild type and a lesion mimic mutant of rice and analyzed H(2)O(2) production and cell death in transformed cell cultures and plants. The results indicate that Rac is a regulator of reactive oxygen species production as well as cell death in rice.
10486772	When it comes to caring for the forensic psychiatric inpatient, there is no "how to" book. In the forensic hospital environment, the commingling of severe and persistent mental illness with criminality poses vexing clinical challenges and complex moral dilemmas not faced in either general psychiatric or correctional environments. While providing evaluation and treatment in our maximum security forensic environment, we continually strive to create and maintain a therapeutic milieu as we fulfill our social mandate to protect the public from the dangerous "criminally insane." Few studies guide us. We do know that within the forensic population there is a spectrum of psychopathology to manage, some of which responds to traditional psychotherapeutic techniques and some of which does not. For example, patients with psychopathic traits may not respond well to traditional treatment methods (Rice, 1997). As forensic psychiatric staff, we sometimes feel as if we are making it up as we go, adapting and blending psychiatric theory with knowledge from penology and criminal justice science to provide a safe environment conducive to growth for patients, the majority of whom may be considered "violence-prone" persons (Toch, 1969). Change is a characteristic of public-sector settings (Smoyak, 1991). Forensic hospitals must continually strive to monitor, refine, and improve their organizational systems as they respond and adapt to constant change. Despite the inherent challenges posed when collaborating with forensic patients, the VAC has achieved some notable successes. Staff and patients have been encouraged to work together to create and maintain a milieu where violence is neither assumed nor condoned. An active collaboration and partnership with our forensic patients has been one component of the hospital's successful violence reduction program. We trust that ASH's successful effort to collaborate with patients on the issue of violence reduction may be of use to other forensic hospitals faced with similar challenges.
10488233	We report the isolation, sequence, and pattern of gene expression of members of the KNOTTED1 (KN1)-type class 1 homeobox gene family from rice. Phylogenetic analysis and mapping of the rice genome revealed that all of the rice homeobox genes that we have isolated have one or two direct homologs in maize. Of the homeobox genes that we tested, all exhibited expression in a restricted region of the embryo that defines the position at which the shoot apical meristem (SAM) would eventually develop, prior to visible organ formation. Several distinct spatial and temporal expression patterns were observed for the different genes in this region. After shoot formation, the expression patterns of these homeobox genes were variable in the region of the SAM. These results suggest that the rice KN1-type class 1 homeobox genes function cooperatively to establish the SAM before shoot formation and that after shoot formation, their functions differ.
10488234	The avirulence gene avrXa10 of Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae directs the elicitation of resistance in a gene-for-gene manner in rice lines carrying the resistance gene Xa10. We have localized a transcriptional activator domain in the C terminus of AvrXa10 by using amino acid replacement mutagenesis. One mutant, with replacements at three hydrophobic amino acid residues in the C-terminal domain, was defective for transcriptional activation in yeast and avirulence activity in rice. The activation domain from the herpes virus protein VP16 restored the ability of the bacteria expressing the hybrid protein to elicit a resistance reaction. Elicitation was specific for Xa10, and the reaction had the hallmarks of the response to AvrXa10. The results indicate that a domain with the properties of a transcriptional activator plays a critical role in AvrXa10 function. The results also indicate that the protein has the potential to interact with the plant transcriptional program, although a role for the domain in the stability or conformation of the protein in the plant cannot be excluded. In a broader sense, the transcriptional activation domain of avrXa10 may represent a prokaryotic version of the acidic transcriptional activation domain, which heretofore has been found exclusively in eukaryotes.
10488396	The objective of this work was the evaluation of the technological behavior of seven rice genotypes, using a baking test for bread without gluten, and taking account the influence of particle size and physicochemical properties of the rice on the technological aptitude to produce the bread. Total and insoluble amylose content and hydration were used to make its relationship with bread quality. The genotypes Rico and H-144-7 have contributed to give the best results at baking test while waxy rices gave the lower quality bread. Also we emphasize that a certain relationships can be assumed between hydration and insoluble amylose content with the organoleptic evaluation of breads.
10489752	One hundred children with acute dehydrating diarrhoea were studied. They were divided into two groups: Group A (n = 50) were given rice-based oral rehydration salt (ORS) solution and group B (n = 50) were given glucose-based ORS solution (WHO). There was no significant decrease in mean stool output and percentage weight gain with rice-based ORS. Both the groups were comparable for volume of ORS solution consumed, time taken for initial rehydration, mean stool output and for correcting biochemical abnormalities.
10489798	In order to survey trends in food habits the Danish Nutrition Council initiated two food frequency surveys, comprising ten nutritionally important foods, in 1995 and in 1998. Participants were men and women, 15-90 yrs, from similar population samples (n = 1007 in 1995, 1024 in 1998). Participation rate was 62% in 1995 and 63% in 1998. Data were collected by telephone interview. For six of the ten foods significant changes in consumption frequencies were observed: salad/raw vegetables, rice/pasta and fish were consumed more frequently in 1998, whereas consumption of meat, potatoes and fresh fruit had become less frequent. Average frequencies differed by 4-13%. In 1998 low-fat milk had become more common, whereas whole milk was now less common. More subjects now skipped fat spreads on their bread, but more chose spreads containing butterfat. Some, but not all, of the observed changes point in the right direction compared to recommendations. The results demonstrate that food habits are currently in a dynamic process.
10490009
10491677	Examine variation in dietary practices and nutritional intakes of Korean Americans at different acculturation levels. Cross-sectional mail survey. US national sample of 348 Korean Americans (46% of the Korean American sample to whom questionnaires were delivered). Analysis of variance, Pearson correlation, Spearman rank correlation, chi 2 test, and multiple regression analysis. Korean Americans who were more acculturated consumed more American food and less Korean food. American foods such as oranges, low-fat milk, bagels, tomatoes, and bread were consumed regularly by Korean Americans; Korean foods such as rice, kimchi, garlic, green onions, and Korean soup were also consumed regularly. American foods were adopted the most at breakfast and the least at dinner. Bicultural people regularly incorporated more different types of foods into their diet. Despite significant differences in dietary practices, dietary quality did not vary by acculturation status. Acculturation was influential in the dietary patterns of Korean Americans. Specific information about Korean diet related to acculturation status can be used by dietitians who work with Korean Americans. Dietitians can benefit from gathering and applying specific information about Korean diets and diets of other ethnic groups; they also need to recognize the changing nature of dietary patterns as acculturation occurs.
10491793	Molinate is a thiocarbamate herbicide used for weed control in rice fields. Since the late 1970s, findings from reproductive toxicology studies of rats have led to concern that molinate might affect human male fertility. Semen samples were collected from 272 formulation and production workers at three US plants. The samples were collected at the end of four alternate monitoring periods of either high or low exposure to molinate. In addition, 222 married workers provided reproductive-history information. Workers' mean exposures to molinate during the monitoring periods ranged from 12.7 micrograms/m3 to 210.9 micrograms/m3. There was no evidence that sperm and serum hormone levels were related to exposure to molinate before the study or exposure during the four monitoring periods. There was also no evidence of a molinate exposure-related effect on the ratio of observed to expected births.
1049250
10495830	The Rice Virtual Laboratory in Statistics is an integrated combination of an electronic textbook, simulations/demonstrations, and case studies. The electronic textbook covers basic concepts in statistics and data analysis and contains links to data analysis tools, instructional demonstrations/simulations, and other on-line texts. The simulations and demonstrations help make abstract concepts concrete and allow students to investigate various aspects of statistical tests and distributions. Case studies demonstrate the real-world applicability of statistical methods. Materials are available on the World-Wide Web.
10499999	In a laboratory incubation study, the effect of select heavy metals on methane (CH(4)) production in three rice soils was investigated under flooded conditions. Heavy metals behaved differently in their effect on methanogenesis in different soils and methane-producing bacteria. Cd, Cu, and Pb inhibited CH(4) production in all the soils. Zn stimulated CH(4) production in the alluvial soil, but inhibited it in laterite and acid sulfate soils. Cr effectively inhibited CH(4) production in the alluvial soil, but stimulated it in laterite and acid sulfate soils. The stimulatory effect of Zn and the inhibitory effect of Cr on methanogenesis in alluvial soil were attributed to their stimulation or inhibition of methanogenic bacterial population.
10500012	Previous research showed that decreasing the energy density (kJ/g) of foods by adding water to them can lead to reductions in energy intake. Few studies have examined how water consumed as a beverage affects food intake. This study examined the effects of water, both served with a food and incorporated into a food, on satiety. In a within-subjects design, 24 lean women consumed breakfast, lunch, and dinner in our laboratory 1 d/wk for 4 wk. Subjects received 1 of 3 isoenergetic (1128 kJ) preloads 17 min before lunch on 3 d and no preload on 1 d. The preloads consisted of 1) chicken rice casserole, 2) chicken rice casserole served with a glass of water (356 g), and 3) chicken rice soup. The soup contained the same ingredients (type and amount) as the casserole that was served with water. Decreasing the energy density of and increasing the volume of the preload by adding water to it significantly increased fullness and reduced hunger and subsequent energy intake at lunch. The equivalent amount of water served as a beverage with a food did not affect satiety. Energy intake at lunch was 1209 +/- 125 kJ after the soup compared with 1657 +/- 148 and 1639 +/- 148 kJ after the casserole with and without water, respectively. Subjects did not compensate at dinner for this reduction in lunch intake. Consuming foods with a high water content more effectively reduced subsequent energy intake than did drinking water with food.
10500491	Trichothecene mycotoxins in animal feed and human food can cause fatalities in livestock and disease in humans. In addition, these toxins are suspected chemical warfare agents. Therefore, development of a simple and sensitive method for the screening of trichothecenes is important to prevent economic loss and health hazards. A simple and inexpensive method for the detection of type-B trichothecene mycotoxins has been developed in our laboratory. By hydrolyzing the toxin under basic conditions at 80 degrees C for 1 h it is possible to detect the toxin with simple electrochemical techniques. Deoxynivalenol (DON), commonly known as vomitoxin, was used as a representative compound for type-B trichothecenes in this detection scheme. The detection limit for DON using our procedures was determined to be 9.1 microM in solution, corresponding to 0.24 ppm in a 25-g grain sample if the final extraction volume is 2.2 mL. The linear dynamic detection range was determined to be from 0.32 ppm to greater than 32 ppm. In addition to standard solutions, this method was used on rice samples spiked with DON. It was demonstrated that there is no electrochemical interference from rice extract and that 1 ppm of DON in rice samples can be quantified. This method may be ideal for toxin screening in animal feeds or in runoff from sites that produce the compounds as chemical warfare agents. Since the active moiety in DON is common to virtually all type-B trichothecenes, our approach may be ideal for type-specific screening.
10500994	Cultured cells of rice (Oryza sativa cv Sasanishiki) produce two alpha-amylase isozymes, AMY-I and AMY-III. Using a bacterial expression system, eight chimeric genes constructed with various combination of AMY-I and AMY-III cDNA fragments were expressed, and each recombinant chimeric protein was characterized. Four of the eight recombinant enzymes having region c (one of the four regions having unconserved base sequences between AMY-I and AMY-III cDNAs) of AMY-I showed the same enzyme characteristics as that of native AMY-I, which had high temperature optimum at 50 degrees C. The other four chimeric proteins carrying region c of AMY-III showed the AMY-III type characteristics, which were a low temperature optimum at 25 degrees C and susceptibility to a higher maltooligosaccharide (G17) substrate. The unconserved region c is involved in the decision of the characteristic of AMY-I or AMY-III.
10502678	Little or no endopeptidase activity was detected in extracts of dry mature wheat seeds, but when they were allowed to imbibe water in darkness, the activity expressed per seedling increased notably after d 1, reached a maximum on d 3 and then decreased. Two major endopeptidases, named WEP-1 and WEP-2, were present in the 50-70% saturated ammonium sulfate fraction of d-3 seedlings, and could be separated by hydrophobic column chromatography. WEP-1 was further purified and identified as a 31-kDa polypeptide that was immunoreactive to antiserum raised against REP-1, a major rice cysteine endopeptidase. Experiments with proteinase inhibitors revealed that WEP-1 and WEP-2 are cysteine and serine endopeptidases, respectively. The two enzymes differed in substrate specificity, pH dependence, and the ability to digest major wheat seed proteins. Determination of its amino-terminal amino acid sequence indicated the similarity of WEP-1 to other cereal cysteine endopeptidases which are involved in the digestion of seed storage proteins. The expression of WEP-1 in de-embryonated seeds was induced in the presence of gibberellic acid and its effect was eliminated by abscisic acid. In addition to WEP-1 and WEP-2, a legumain-like asparaginyl endopeptidase was identified in the extract of seedlings on hydrophobic chromatography. The asparaginyl endopeptidase may function in the early step of mobilization of wheat storage proteins in germinated seeds.
10503072	Blast fungus' mutant, which is very difficult to obtain, is the key substance in the study of the relation between pathogen and plant. Rice-Aichi-ashahi was used as the host and plasmid pBF101 or pCSN43 as foreign DNA fragment, and REMI mutagenesis was applied to tag the pathogenic sequence in rice blast fungus M.grisea. Three mutants (R2H65, R2H69 and R2B1565) related to pathogenicity were recovered from several hundreds of transformants. R2H69 and R2H65 produced merely strange conidia which could not form appressorium or yield abnormals, and pathogenicity test further confirmed that they were unable to cause disease. R2B1565 possesses the same phenotypes as those of the wild type except that the ability of causing disease was much reduced.
10503544	Homologs of the eyes absent (eya) gene in animals function at multiple stages in the development of organs. Their functional roles in the genetic network that regulates eye development in Drosophila have recently been extensively analyzed. A rice homolog of eya was identified from a cDNA library made from embryo RNA. The corresponding gene (OSEya1) encodes a conserved ED1 domain and a short N-terminal peptide. The ED1 domain of OSEya1 shows 25% identity and 36% similarity to the product of Drosophila eya. Mammalian and squid eya homologs show about 35% similarity to OSEya1. Homologous sequences were also found in the alfalfa EST database (53% identity and 65% similarity to OSEya1) and in the Arabidopsis genome sequence (63% identity). Therefore, eya homologs are present in both monocots and dicots. Three regions in the ED1 domain are well conserved in animals and plants. Plant eya products deduced from the nucleotide sequences also have short N-terminal peptides. The OSEya1 gene is located between the wx gene and the telomere on the short arm of chromosome 6. OSEya1 is expressed in the embryo, shoot apex, and caryopsis in rice. Expression in the embryo increases during embryogenesis until 7 days after pollination, with preferential localization in leaf primordia and the shoot apical meristem. Expression in the influorescence was observed in floral meristems. The functions of OSEya1 in higher plants are discussed and compared with those of their animal homologs. OSEya1 might regulate the morphogenesis of lateral organs as a subunit of a transcription factor.
10503637	Map-based gene cloning is now widely used to isolate genes of unknown products. After fine mapping of a target gene is completed, the key step to head forward is to construct series of contigs covering the target gene through chromosome walking. To approach the final goal of cloning a wide compatible gene of rice (S5 locus), the flanking G200 marker was used as a starting point to walk. Four positive clones ranging from 240 approximately 650 kb were obtained from the rice genomic YAC library (RGP, Japan). With the ends of YAC inserts isolated by inverse-PCR, a YAC contig of 3 cM was initially built. Next, chromosome walking was performed with the two distal ends of the contig and another seven positive YAC clones were screened out, leading to the contig extending to about 8 cM.
10504167	Corn and other crops contaminated with the fungus Aspergillus flavus give off a carcinogenic by-product called aflatoxin, which is blamed for high rates of liver cancer in Asia and Africa, where rice and corn are food staples. In the United States, aflatoxin's major threat is to farm animals, which can get sick or even die from consuming too much of the toxin. Scientists are working on ways to keep the deadly toxin out of the food supply. Two techniques under development identify aflatoxin-tainted corn by using infrared light to elicit telltale sounds and light from contaminated kernels. Other scientists hope to protect corn from A. flavus in the first place by designing genetically engineered aflatoxin-resistant grain species and by working with drugs such as oltipraz that reportedly detoxify aflatoxin already in the body.
10504582	To examine whether the maize autonomous transposable element Ac can be used for the functional analysis of the rice genome, we used Southern blot analysis to analyze the behaviour of Ac in 559 rice plants of four transgenic families through three successive generations. All families showed highly active transposition of Ac, and 103 plants (18.4%) contained newly transposed Ac insertions. In nine of the 12 independent transpositions analyzed, their germinal transmission was detected. Partial sequencing of 99 Ac-flanking sequences revealed that 21 clones exhibited significant similarities with protein-coding genes in databases and four of them matched rice cDNA sequences. These results indicate preferential Ac transposition into protein-coding rice genes. To examine the feasibility of PCR-based screening of gene knockouts in rice Ac plants, we prepared bulked genomic DNA from the leaves of approximately 6000 rice Ac plants and pooled the DNA according to a three-dimensional matrix. Of 14 randomly selected genes, two gene knockouts were identified, and one encoding a rice cytochrome P450 (CYP86) gene was shown to be stably inherited to the progeny. Together, these results suggest that Ac can be efficiently used for the functional analysis of the rice genome.
10504583	In rice, limited efforts have been made to identify genes by the use of insertional mutagens, especially heterologous transposons such as the maize Ac/Ds. We constructed Ac and gene trap Ds vectors and introduced them into the rice genome by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. In this report, rice plants that contained single and simple insertions of T-DNA were analysed in order to evaluate the gene-tagging efficiency. The 3' end of Ds was examined for putative splicing donor sites. As observed in maize, three splice donor sites were identified at the 3' end of the Ds in rice. Nearly 80% of Ds elements were excised from the original T-DNA sites, when Ac cDNA was expressed under a CaMV 35S promoter. Repetitive ratoon culturing was performed to induce new transpositions of Ds in new plants derived from cuttings. About 30% of the plants carried at least one Ds which underwent secondary transposition in the later cultures. Eight per cent of transposed Ds elements expressed GUS in various tissues of rice panicles. With cloned DNA adjacent to Ds, the genomic complexities of the insertion sites were examined by Southern hybridization. Half of the Ds insertion sites showed simple hybridization patterns which could be easily utilized to locate the Ds. Our data demonstrate that the Ac/Ds-mediated gene trap system could prove an excellent tool for the analysis of functions of genes in rice. We discuss genetic strategies that could be employed in a large scale mutagenesis using a heterologous Ac/Ds family in rice.
10504828	The effect of the menstrual cycle on oro-cecal transit time (OCTT) has been controversial. Since poor reproducibility of OCTT measurements by lactulose might be responsible for this controversy, we measured OCTT with either milk or a solid test meal during the luteal and follicular phases of the menstrual cycle. Nine healthy young women (21.9 +/- 0.42 years old) with regular menstruation were studied for 4 consecutive menstrual cycles. Control (37 degrees C) or cold (10 degrees C) milk was used as a liquid meal, and the OCTT measurements were taken 3 times at each milk temperature during each of the 2 phases for 3 consecutive menstrual cycles. OCTT after a solid test meal (cooked rice, miso soup, a boiled egg, and cooked soybeans with mixed vegetables) was studied twice in 1 menstrual cycle. Breath hydrogen was determined every 15 min for 6 h. OCTT was defined as the time when breath hydrogen showed a sustained rise of 3 ppm or more from baseline. OCTT was not different between the luteal and follicular phases when the test meal was control milk or the solid meal. When cold milk was used as the test meal, OCTT was significantly shorter during the luteal phase (134 +/- 15 min) than during the follicular phase (165 +/- 21 min). In conclusion, cold milk accelerates OCTT during the luteal phase but not the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle in women.
10505735	The small intestine's large capacity for glucose absorption and for adaptation seems to contradict the reported importance of carbohydrate malabsorption in short bowel (SB) patients. The aim of the present study was to investigate the occurrence of malabsorption in these patients ingesting realistic amounts of carbohydrates. We performed a dose-response study [ingestion of increasing amounts of glucose and complex carbohydrates (boiled rice and wheat bread), and the nonabsorbable disaccharide lactulose] in SB patients with an intact colon. The hydrogen (H2) -breath test and changes in serum acetate were used to evaluate colonic fermentation and, thus, indirectly, the lack of small intestinal carbohydrate assimilation. Blood glucose and plasma insulin were measured to evaluate absorption. Plasma concentrations of the ileal brake hormones--glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and peptide tyrosine tyrosine (PYY)--were measured to test whether release of these hormones was related to colonic fermentation. Significant amounts of 25 g and 50 g glucose, and of the bread and rice meals were fermented rather than absorbed, as judged by the increases in end-expiratory H2. Serum acetate concentrations were significantly higher in SB patients than in healthy controls. The orocecal transit times of all test meals ranged from 15 to 120 min. GLP-1 and PYY releases in SB patients were significantly higher than in healthy volunteers. They were mutually parallel and paralleled the increase in insulin. They were not related to ongoing fermentation or to intraluminal carbohydrate content per se, but most probably to absorption of glucose in the distal bowel. In conclusion, well-adapted SB patients had pronounced small intestinal malabsorption of carbohydrate, even after ingestion of small amounts of easily absorbable carbohydrates. A fast small intestinal spreading of carbohydrates, once in the small intestine, and a spill-over to the colon seem to explain the data best.
10506007	Dietary arsenic intake estimates based on surveys of total arsenic concentrations appear to be dominated by intake of the relatively non-toxic, organic arsenic forms found in seafood. Concentrations of inorganic arsenic in food have not been not well characterized. Accurate dietary intake estimates for inorganic arsenic are needed to support studies of arsenic's status as an essential nutrient, and to establish background levels of exposure to inorganic arsenic. In the market basket survey reported here, 40 commodities anticipated to provide at least 90% of dietary inorganic arsenic intake were identified. Four samples of each commodity were collected. Total arsenic was analysed using an NaOH digestion and inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry. Separate aliquots were analysed for arsenic species using an HCl digestion and hydride atomic absorption spectroscopy. Consistent with earlier studies, total arsenic concentrations (all concentrations reported as elemental arsenic per tissue wet weight) were highest in the seafoods sampled (ranging from 160 ng/g in freshwater fish to 2360 ng/g in saltwater fish). In contrast, average inorganic arsenic in seafood ranged from less than 1 ng/g to 2 ng/g. The highest inorganic arsenic values were found in raw rice (74 ng/g), followed by flour (11 ng/g), grape juice (9 ng/g) and cooked spinach (6 ng/g). Thus, grains and produce are expected to be significant contributors to dietary inorganic arsenic intake.
10506040	To study the effects on children of humanitarian aid agencies restricting help to refugee families (internally displaced people). Follow up study of 3 months. Prabis peninsular outside Bissau, the capital of Guinea-Bissau, which has functioned as a refugee area for internally displaced people in the ongoing war, and the study area of the Bandim health project in Bissau. 422 children aged 9-23 months in 30 clusters. Mid-upper arm circumference and survival in relation to residence status. During the refugee situation all children deteriorated nutritionally, and mortality was high (3.0% in a 6 week period). Rice consumption was higher in families resident in Prabis than in refugees from Bissau but there was no difference in food expenditure. Nutritional status, measured by mid- upper arm circumference, was not associated with rice consumption levels in the family, and the decline in circumference was significantly worse for resident than for refugee children; the mid-upper arm circumference of refugee children increased faster than that of resident children. For resident children, mortality was 4.5 times higher (95% confidence interval 1.1 to 30.0) than for refugee children. Mortality for both resident and refugee children was 7.2 times higher (1.3 to 133.9) during the refugee's stay in Prabis compared with the period after the departure of the refugees. In a non-camp setting, residents may be more malnourished and have higher mortality than refugees. Major improvements in nutritional status and a reduction in mortality occurred in resident and refugee children as soon as refugees returned home despite the fact that there was no improvement in food availability.
10508840	With the genomic sequencing of Arabidopsis nearing completion and rice sequencing very much in its infancy, a key question is whether we can exploit the Arabidopsis sequence to identify candidate genes for traits in cereal crops using a map-based approach. This requires the existence of colinearity between the Arabidopsis and cereal genomes, represented by rice, which is readily detectable using currently available resources, that is, Arabidopsis genomic sequence, rice ESTs, and genetic and physical maps. A detailed study of the colinearity remaining between two small regions of Arabidopsis chromosome 1 and rice suggests that at least in these regions of the Arabidopsis genome, conservation of gene orders with rice has been eroded to the point that it is no longer identifiable using comparative mapping. Although our analysis does not preclude that tracts of colinear gene orders may be identified using sequence comparisons or may exist in other regions of the rice and Arabidopsis genomes, it is unlikely that the extent of colinearity will be sufficient to allow map-based cross-species gene prediction and isolation. Our research also highlights the difficulties encountered in identifying orthologs using BLAST searches in incomplete sequence databases. This complicates the interpretation of comparative data among highly divergent species and limits the exploitation of Arabidopsis sequence in monocot studies.
10508939	Washed excised roots of rice (Oryza sativa) produced H(2), CH(4), acetate, propionate and butyrate when incubated under anoxic conditions. Acetate production was most pronounced with a maximum rate (mean+/-standard error; four different root preparations) of 3.4+/-0.6 mol h(-1) g-dry weight(-1) roots, compared to 0.45+/-0.13, 0.06+/-0.03, and 0.04+/-0.01 mol h(-1) g-dw(-1) for propionate, butyrate and CH(4)1 kPa after one day of incubation. Then it decreased and reached more or less constant concentrations of about 50-80 Pa after about 7-8 days. Hydrogen partial pressures were always high enough to allow exergonic methanogenesis (DeltaG=-67 to -98 kJ mol(-1) CH(4)) and exergonic homoacetogenesis (DeltaG=-18 to -48 kJ mol(-1) acetate) from H(2) plus CO(2). Radioactive bicarbonate/CO(2) was incorporated into CH(4), acetate and propionate. The specific radioactivities of the products indicated that CH(4) was exclusively produced from H(2)/CO(2) confirming a previous study. The contribution of CO(2) to the production of acetate and propionate was 32-39% and 42-61%, respectively, assuming that each carbon atom was equally labeled. Propionate also became radioactively labeled, when the roots were incubated with either [1-(14)C]acetate or [2-(14)C]acetate accounting for 60-76% of total propionate production. Reductive formation of propionate was thermodynamically favorable both from H(2) plus acetate plus CO(2) (DeltaG=-15 to -38 kJ mol(-1) propionate) and from H(2) plus CO(2) (DeltaG=-34 to -85 kJ mol(-1) propionate). A substantial fraction of propionate was apparently reductively formed from acetate and/or CO(2). In conclusion, our results demonstrate an intensive anaerobic dark metabolism of CO(2) on washed rice roots with reduction of CO(2) contributing significantly to the production of acetate, propionate and CH(4). The CO(2) reduction seemed to be driven by decay and fermentation of root material.
10509255	Holstein bull calves were used to examine factors affecting water balance and fecal moisture content in suckling calves given dry feed for 2 wk from 1 wk of age. In Experiment 1 (n = 16), the shift of water balance (decreased urine volume, and increased water retention and fecal water excretion) and elevation of fecal moisture content were greatest when calf starter and Sudangrass hay were fed in addition to liquid milk replacer, compared with calves receiving only milk replacer. Intermediate changes occurred when calves were fed milk replacer and calf starter or milk replacer, calf starter, and rice straw. Water retention was correlated positively with digestible DMI and negatively with urine volume. Fecal water excretion was highly correlated with fecal DM excretion. In Experiment 2 (n = 18), water balance and fecal moisture content during wk 2 were affected by free access to calf starter and hay from wk 1. Urine volume of calves fed dry feed and milk replacer was lower than that of calves fed only milk replacer; however, when water was available in addition to dry feed, urine volume was similar to that of calves fed only milk replacer. Fecal water excretion was highly correlated with water retention rather than with fecal DM excretion, suggesting a close relationship to extracellular fluid volume. Ruminal fermentation would be an important factor affecting both water balance and fecal moisture content in suckling calves given dry feed.
10509770	To investigate the effect of a breakfast cereal containing inulin on blood lipids and colonic ecosystem in normolipidemic young men. Department of Food Science and Microbiology,University of Milan, Italy. Twelve healthy male volunteers, age 23.3 +/- 0.5 y, body mass index (BMI) 25.7 +/- 1.2 kg/m2 (mean +/- s.e.m.). Subjects consumed daily, for three periods of four weeks, 50 g of a rice-based ready-to-eat cereal (placebo) and the same cereal containing 18% inulin (test) in substitution of their habitual breakfast, then returned to the habitual diet (wash-out). They followed no other dietary restrictions. No changes in body weight, dietary habits, faecal and bile acid output, faecal short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) and faecal pH, were observed at the end of each period, whereas plasma total cholesterol and triacylglycerols significantly decreased at the end of test period by 7.9 +/- 5.4 (P < 0.05) and 21.2 +/- 7.8% (P < 0.005) respectively. Meal glucose tolerance test (MTT) resulted in the same incremental area under the curve for both cereals (IAUC test 124 +/- 35; placebo 118 +/- 33 mmol x min/l, ns). Inulin markedly enhanced breath H2 excretion (IAUC test 280 +/- 40; placebo 78 +/- 26 ppm x h, P < 0.005), as well as faecal concentration of L-lactate. Total facultative anaerobes significantly decreased after test, and bifidobacteria increased after correction for total anaerobes (P < 0.05). Changes in blood lipids were negatively correlated with bifidobacteria counts and positively with secondary bile acid excretion (P < 0.05). Inulin seems to have a lipid lowering potential in normolipidemic men possibly mediated by mechanisms related to colonic fermentation.
10510286	Characterization was done on the sugar chains of glutelin, a major storage protein in rice seeds. The basic subunits of glutelin were shown to be glycoproteins by staining with PAS and the lectins concanavalin A (Con A) and peanut agglutinin (PNA). The binding of PNA to the basic subunits was substantially reduced by treatment of the glutelin with NaIO4, NaOH, or O-glycanase. The sugar chains of the subunits, obtained by hydrazinolysis and O-glycanase, were pyridylaminated and subjected to 2-dimensional HPLC analysis using C(18) and acrylamide-derivatized columns. It was found that the Galbeta-1,3GalNAc disaccharide, which was previously identified as a core 1 structure of mucin-type sugar chains, is conjugated to the glutelin subunits. Furthermore, amino acid sequencing of an 11-kDa peptide of the subunits, recognized by both PNA and Con A, suggested that both N-linked and O-linked glycosylation occurs in the carboxy-terminal region of these subunits.
10510586	Dietary factors were analyzed for the regional difference of GI tract cancer mortality rates in China. Sixty-five rural counties were selected among a total of 2,392 counties to represent a range of rates for seven most prevalent cancers. The dietary data in the selected 65 counties were obtained by three-day dietary record of households in 1983. The four digestive cancer mortality rates (annual cases per 100,000 standardized truncated rates for ages 35-64) and per capita food consumption were analyzed by the principal components factor analysis. Esophageal cancer associated with poor area, dietary pattern rich in starchy tubers, and salt, lack of consumption of meat, eggs, vegetables and rice. Stomach cancer seemed to be less associated with diet in this study because of its small model Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin (KMO) measure of sampling adequacy, suggesting some other carcinogenic factors would play more important role in the development of this cancer in China. The colon and rectal cancer showed close relation to diet; rich in sea vegetables, eggs, soy sauce, meat and fish, while lack in consumption of milk and dairy products. Rapeseed oil was more important risk factor for colon cancer than that of rectum. Rice, processed starch and sugar were closely associated with colon cancer, supporting the insulin/colon cancer hypothesis.
10511257	1. The surveys were conducted in 1990s on 470 non-smoking adult women [with no specific exposure to cadmium (Cd)] in 22 sites in six regions in Japan. 2. It was found that the dietary Cd intake (as a grand geometric mean) was 25.9 microg/day, the Cd level in blood was 2.1 microg/l, and Cd level in urine was 2.1 microg/g creat. 3. Cd in rice contributed about 30% of total dietary Cd intake. 4. There was a substantial reduction in Cd burden when compared with observation in 1980s. 5. Effects on kidney functions were essentially negative when evaluated in terms of beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG), but might be positive when alpha1-microglobulin (alpha1-MG) was evaluated; further studies are apparently necessary. 6. No effects on liver functions were detected.
10515609	Highly efficient cell synchronization and metaphase chromosome accumulation in rice root tip cells were achieved. Flow cytometric analysis was performed for obtaining optimal parameters to synchronize the cell cycles. High mitotic indices (about 57.6% in root tip meristemic area) were obtained by treating seedlings with 0.5 cm length using 0.5 mM hydroxyurea at 30 degrees C for 4 h, incubating in a hydroxyurea-free solution for 30 min, and then treating with 0.3 microM trifluralin for 3 h. After trifluralin treatment, incubation in distilled water for 15 min reduced chromosome clumping on metaphase spread. Uniformity of seed germination at the time of treatment is a critical parameter for obtaining high metaphase index. Isolated rice chromosomes were suitable for flow cytometric analysis and chromosome sorting. The morphology of flow sorted metaphase chromosomes was intact.
10517318	Cyclins are known to activate cyclin-dependent protein kinases, which are essential for cell cycle progression in eukaryotes. We isolated full-length cDNAs encoding rice mitotic cyclins named CycA1; os; 1 and CycB2;os;1, which are related to A- and B-type cyclins, respectively, from animals. To characterize the function of these mitotic cyclins, as well as that of another B-type cyclin, CycB2;os;2, each cDNA was introduced into yeast cells. When cDNAs encoding CycA1;os;1, CycB2;os; or CycB2;os;2 were overexpressed in the yeast mutant DLI, which is deficient in G1 cyclins, the mutant phenotype was rescued, indicating that these mitotic cyclins are functional in yeast cells. When the cDNA encoding CycB2;os;1 was expressed in the wild-type yeast strain, the cells lost the ability to grow, whereas the expression of either cycA1;os: 1 or cycB2;os;2 did not inhibit growth. In situ hybridization of these mitotic cyclin genes with rice root apices and counterstaining of chromosomes with a DNA-specific dye revealed that cycA1;os;1 is expressed from the G2 phase to the early M phase, while transcripts of cycB2:os;1 and cycB2;os;2 accumulated until the end of mitosis. Our results indicate that these B2-type cyclins may be involved in the control of mitosis, in combination with a G2/M-phase CDK.
10517831	The activities of the two types of starch debranching enzymes, isoamylase and pullulanase, were greatly reduced in endosperms of allelic sugary-1 mutants of rice (Oryza sativa), with the decrease more pronounced for isoamylase than for pullulanase. However, the decrease in isoamylase activity was not related to the magnitude of the sugary phenotype (the proportion of the phytoglycogen region of the endosperm), as observed with pullulanase. In the moderately mutated line EM-5, the pullulanase activity was markedly lower in the phytoglycogen region than in the starch region, and isoamylase activity was extremely low or completely lost in the whole endosperm tissue. These results suggest that both debranching enzymes are involved in amylopectin biosynthesis in rice endosperm. We presume that isoamylase plays a predominant role in amylopectin synthesis, but pullulanase is also essential or can compensate for the role of isoamylase in the construction of the amylopectin multiple-cluster structure. It is highly possible that isoamylase was modified in some sugary-1 mutants such as EM-273 and EM-5, since it was present in significant and trace amounts, respectively, in these mutants but was apparently inactive. The results show that the Sugary-1 gene encodes the isoamylase gene of the rice genome.
10518722	A low-cost medium, MGRS, has been developed for growth and lipase production from Bacillus THL027 at 65 degrees C and pH 7.0. MGRS was composed of 2% (v/v) buffer solution (7.3% (w/v) Na(2)HPO(4), 3.2% (w/v) KH(2)PO(4), pH 7.2), 40 microg ml(-1) FeSO(4) and 40 microg ml(-1) MgSO(4), 0.1% (w/v) (NH(4))(2)SO(4) supplemented with 3% NaCl, 0.1% glucose, 1.0% rice bran oil and 0.5% (w/v) rice bran. The lipase was purified 2.6-fold to apparent homogeneity by ultrafiltration and gel filtration chromatography. Its molecular mass was 69 kDa. The purified enzyme was characterized for its general physical properties.
10521513
10523523	Large, publicly available collections of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) have been generated from Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa). A potential, but relatively unexplored application of this data is in the study of plant gene expression. Other EST data, mainly from human and mouse, have been successfully used to point out genes exhibiting tissue- or disease-specific expression, as well as for identification of alternative transcripts. In this report, we go a step further in showing that computer analyses of plant EST data can be used to generate evidence of correlated expression patterns of genes across various tissues. Furthermore, tissue types and organs can be classified with respect to one another on the basis of their global gene expression patterns. As in previous studies, expression profiles are first estimated from EST counts. By clustering gene expression profiles or whole cDNA library profiles, we show that genes with similar functions, or cDNA libraries expected to share patterns of gene expression, are grouped together. Promising uses of this technique include functional genomics, in which evidence of correlated expression might complement (or substitute for) those of sequence similarity in the annotation of anonymous genes and identification of surrogate markers. The analysis presented here combines the application of a correlation-based clustering method with a graphical color map allowing intuitive visualization of patterns within a large table of expression measurements.
10524613
10524986	From 1992-1998, Burkholderia pseudomallei was isolated from only 9 (0.25%) of 3653 cultures of blood from febrile patients admitted to the Centre for Tropical Diseases in Ho Chi Minh City, an infectious disease referral center for southern Vietnam. Soil was sampled from 407 sites in 147 rice fields along the 5 major roads radiating from Ho Chi Minh City. B. pseudomallei was isolated from 73 sites (18%) in 39 rice fields (27%), but only 15 (21%) of the 71 isolates from 9 (6%) of 147 fields were the virulent l-arabinose (ara)-negative biotype. All except 1 of the fields with the ara-negative biotype were close to the homes of the patients with melioidosis. The low incidence of melioidosis in the provinces around Ho Chi Minh City may be explained by the restricted distribution of ara-negative B. pseudomallei in the soil in this area.
10525294	Oxidation of dopa and dopamine requires a net removal six electrons to produce indolequinones, the monomeric precursors of eumelanin pigment. On the other hand, their 6-fluoroderivatives suffer only four-electron oxidation to yield the same products (M. E. Rice, B. Mogaddam, C. R. Creveling, and K. L. Kirk, Anal. Chem. 59, 1534-1536, 1987). Taking advantage of this novel fluorochemistry, we reexamined the oxidative mechanism of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 6-fluoro-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid to throw more light on the nature of reactive intermediates formed during the reaction. Enzymatic or chemical oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid generated the transient o-quinone which exhibited rapid intramolecular cyclization and side chain modification to produce 2, 5,6-trihydrobenzofuran and 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, respectively. However, when 6-fluoro-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was oxidized either by tyrosinase or by sodium periodate, the resultant quinone uniquely exhibited only cyclization coupled with loss of fluoride ion. This clean reaction allowed us to establish the structures of the transient reactive intermediates. Two interconvertable isomeric forms of the product were isolated and characterized from the reaction mixture. If the oxidation was carried out in water, a yellow quinolactone accumulated in the reaction mixture. This compound was instantaneously converted to a purple quinone methide upon addition of a trace amount of sodium phosphate. Passage through a C(18) HPLC column caused the reverse transformation. The structures of these products were established by semiempirical molecular orbital calculations and NMR spectrometry. Comparison of the oxidation mechanisms of melanin precursors, dopa and dopamine, with that of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acids reveals that a similar quinone methide intermediate is likely to be formed during eumelanin biosynthesis.
10525842	Two hundred and four isolates of rhizobia were sampled from root nodules of Astragalus sinicus grown in rice fields of six southern provinces of China. Genotypic diversity was determined by Southern hybridization using nodDBC genes as a probe, restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of PCR-amplified 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacers (IGS), and plasmid profile. Our results show that rhizobia associated with A. sinicus were very diverse, and 10 genotypes were resolved within the previously identified dominant 16S rDNA type. Diversity levels varied greatly between different geographical locations. The same nod gene genotypes were harbored by distinct chromosomal types, suggesting that lateral plasmid transfer occurred during the evolution process.
10527416	The unique capability of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings to grow under anoxic conditions may result in part from their ability to express alpha-amylase and maintain the supply of sugar needed for energy metabolism. Previous studies have demonstrated that under aerobic conditions the Amy1 and Amy2 subfamily genes are regulated primarily by phytohormones while the Amy3 subfamily genes are induced during sugar starvation. The expression patterns for these alpha-amylase genes were considerably different in anoxic vs. aerobic rice seedlings. The level of total alpha-amylase mRNA under anoxic conditions was decreased in aleurone layers while it increased in the embryo. Anoxic conditions greatly diminished the expression of the Amy1A gene in aleurone. Conversely, expression of many Amy3 subfamily genes was up-regulated and prolonged in embryo tissues under anoxic conditions.
10527917	To investigate the relationship between cadmium (Cd) toxicity, intestinal absorption, and its distribution to various tissues in rats treated orally with minimum amounts of Cd, 14 female rats per dose group per time point were given diets consisting of 28% purified diet and 72% ordinary rice containing Cd-polluted rice (0. 02, 0.04, 0.12, or 1.01 ppm of Cd) or CdCl(2) (5.08, 19.8, or 40.0 ppm of Cd) for up to 8 months. At 1, 4, and 8 months after the commencement of Cd treatment, seven rats per group were euthanized for pathological examinations to determine the Cd concentrations in the liver and kidneys and metallothionein (MT) in the liver, kidneys, intestinal mucosa, serum, and urine. One week before each period of 1, 4, and 8 months, the remaining seven rats in each group were administered a single dosage of (109)Cd, a tracer, to match the amounts of the designated Cd doses (about 1.2 to 2400 microg/kg body wt). They were euthanized 5 days later to determine the distribution of Cd to various tissues. No Cd-related toxic changes were observed. The concentrations of Cd in the liver and kidneys at any time point and MT in the liver, kidney, serum, and urine at 4 and 8 months increased dose-dependently, whereas MT in the intestinal mucosa did not alter markedly at any time point. The distribution rates of Cd to the liver increased dose-dependently (40% at lower doses to 60% at higher doses), whereas those to the kidney decreased dose-dependently (20% at lower doses to 10% at higher doses). The Cd retention rates 5 days after (109)Cd administration (amounts of Cd in various tissues/amounts of Cd administered) ranged from 0.2 to 1. 0% at any time point. These results suggest that the distribution of Cd to the liver and kidneys after the oral administration vary depending on the dosage levels of Cd. The difference of the distribution pattern of Cd to the liver and kidney is probably due to the difference in the form of the absorbed Cd, i.e., free ion or Cd-MT complex, although not closely related to the MT in the intestinal mucosa.
10528264	MADS-box genes have been shown to play a major role in defining plant architecture. Recently, several MADS-box genes have been reported that are highly expressed in the ovule. However, only for the Petunia genes FBP7 and FBP11 has a function in defining ovule identity been shown. We have isolated a rice MADS-box gene named OsMADS13. Expression analysis has shown that this gene is highly expressed in developing ovules. In order to facilitate a detailed characterization of rice ovule-expressed genes, a comprehensive morphological description of ovule development in rice has been performed. The predicted amino acid sequence of OsMADS13 shows significant homology with ZAG2, a maize MADS-box gene, which is also expressed mainly in the ovule. Mapping of the gene in the rice genome showed that it is located on chromosome 12, which is syntenic to two maize regions where ZAG2 and its paralogous gene ZMM1 have been mapped. Our results suggest that OsMADS13 is the ortholog of ZAG2 and ZMM1 and might play a role in rice ovule and seed development.
10529354	Certad, G., Abrahem, A., and Georges, E. 1999. Cloning and Partial characterization of the proteasome S4 ATPase from Plasmodium falciparum. Experimental Parasitology 93, 123-131. The ATP-ubiquitin-proteasome pathway mediates the nonlysosomal degradation of cytosolic proteins in eukaryotic cells. The activities of this pathway have been shown to regulate cell growth and differentiation through modulation of regulatory proteins. The proteasome is a large complex consisting of two multisubunit structures, the 20S and 19S(PA700) or P28 complexes, that combine to form the 26S particles. In this study, we describe the cloning of a cDNA encoding the proteasome subunit 4 ATPase homologue from Plasmodium falciparum (PFS4). Analysis of the PFS4 cDNA sequence shows an open reading frame encoding a deduced protein of 455 amino acids. Moreover, comparison of PFS4 cDNA sequence to that of genomic fragments encoding PFS4 showed identical sequences with no detectable introns. Database searches revealed a high sequence identity to those of rice, yeast, mouse, Drosophila, and human S4 ATPases. However, PFS4 contains two unique inserts of nine and seven amino acid residues in the N-terminal domain. Interestingly, only the rice S4 contains the latter (seven amino acids) insert with four identical amino acids. In vitro expression of the full-length cDNA encoding the PFS4, using a transcription-translation-coupled reticulocyte lysate, shows a 50-kDa [(35)S]methionine-labeled protein which was immunoprecipitated with PFS4 anti-peptide antiserum. Southern blot analysis of genomic DNA digests shows a single gene copy of PFS4 in P. falciparum. Of interest was the effect of the proteasome-specific natural product, lactacystin, on the growth of the parasite, with IC(50) values of 0.6-0.92 microM. The latter IC(50) values of lactacystin for different clones of P. falciparum are comparable to those obtained for mammalian cell lines (0.65 microM), suggesting the presence of a conserved proteasome complex. Moreover, lactacystin was equally toxic to drug-sensitive and resistant parasites.
10531641	Gibberellins (GAs) are a large family of isoprenoid plant hormones hormones, some of which are bioactive growth regulators, controlling seed germination, stem elongation, and flowering. The rice pathogen Gibberella fujikuroi (mating population C) is able to produce large amounts of GAs, especially the bioactive compounds gibberellic acid (GA3) and its precursors, GA4 and GA7. The main steps of the biosynthetic pathway have long been established from the identification of intermediates in wild-type G. fujikuroi and mutant strains. However, the genetics of the fungus have been rather under-developed, and molecular genetic studies of the GA pathway started just recently. The progress in researching GA biosynthesis in the last 2 years resulted primarily from development of the molecular tools, e.g. transformation systems for the fungus, and cloning the genes encoding GA biosynthesis enzymes, such as the bifunctional ent-copalyl diphosphate/kaurene synthase and several cytochrome P450 monooxygenases. The availability of these genes opened new horizons both for detailed study of the pathway and the regulation mechanisms at the molecular level, and for modern strain improvement programs. This review gives a short overview of the well-known physiological and biochemical studies and concentrates mainly on the new molecular genetic data from GA research, including new information on the regulation of GA biosynthesis.
10532883
10534951	Results of a survey for ixodid ticks and/or serum antibodies to Borrelia burgdorferi from 14 species of small to large mammals from eastern coastal areas of the United States are presented. Most samples were obtained from July 1987 through June 1989 (excluding December-March) at 3 locales: Assateague Is. National Seashore, Worcester Co., MD., and Accomack Co., VA. (approximately 38 degrees 05' N 75 degrees 10' W), and Cape Hatteras National Seashore, Dare Co., NC (approximately 35 degrees 30' N 76 degrees 35' W). Hosts sampled included opossums (Didelphis virginiana), least shrews (Cryptotis parva), gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus), red foxes (Vulpes vulpes), raccoons (Procyon lotor), feral cats (Felis sylvestris), feral horses (Equus caballus), sika deer (Cervus nippon), rice rats (Oryzomys palustris), white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus), meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus), house mice (Mus musculus), norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) and jumping mice (Zapus hudsonius). An indirect fluorescent antibody test was used for testing sera from opossums, raccoons, and feral cats; enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were used for sera from foxes, horses, deer, and house and white-footed mice. Antibodies to B. burgdorferi were found in all species tested from each locale. Seasonal data reinforce the contention that P. leucopus is a suitable sentinel species for B. burgdorferi. Ticks on hosts included Ixodes scapularis Say, I. texanus Banks, Dermacentor variabilis (Say), D. albipictus (Packard), and Amblyomma americanum (L.). Males comprised approximately 0-22 and 60-81% of Ixodes sp. and Amblyomma-Dermacentor adults collected from hosts, respectively. All stages of A. americanum, adult D. variabilis, and larval I. scapularis were collected from vegetation. The highest seropositivity rate (67%) was recorded for 45 P. leucopus at Assateague during July, approximately 1 mo. after peak nymphal I. scapularis intensity. Borrelia burgdorferi was isolated from 6 nymphal and 12 female I. scapularis collected from P. leucopus and C. nippon, respectively, on Assateague.
10539455	A recently published book, 'The Economics of Health Reconsidered' by Tom Rice, provides a strong critique of the role of markets in health care. Many of the issues of 'market failure' raised by Rice, however, have been, to varying extents, recognised previously in the health economics literature (at least outside the U.S.). What perhaps sets Rice's book apart from previous attempts to document such issues is its elegance and the methodical manner in which this critique is delivered. Significantly the critique is based solely on conventional economic arguments. There has, however, been an emerging strand of the health economics literature not acknowledged in Rice's book which has approached some of these issues of market failure from a different perspective. Notably this research has involved, in part, borrowing from the ideas and methodological traditions of other disciplines. The emphasis in this work has been to expand the scope and the concerns of economic analysis in health care.
10540854	This study was conducted to examine intra- and inter-individual variations in diets of the middle-aged and the elderly (40 years or older, 46 men and 42 women). The coefficients of variations for intakes of nutrients and food groups were computed from four 4-day weighed dietary records performed at 3-month intervals from June 1996. The results were as follows: a) The highest intra-individual variation (%) for nutrient intake was observed in retinol (men 293.5, women 283.8) and the lowest in carbohydrate (men 17.7, women 22.1). b) The highest inter-individual variation (%) was found in retinol (58.2) in men, and in carotene (56.7) in women. The lowest inter-individual variation (%) was observed in magnesium (17.0) in men, and in carbohydrate (14.4) in women. c) Nuts and seeds showed the highest intra-individual variation (%) for food group intake (men 291.5, women 391.8), while rice presented the lowest (men 30.5, women 38.9). d) The highest inter-individual variation for food group intake (%) was seen in milk and dairy products (111.7) in men and in alcoholic beverages (162.3) in women. The lowest inter-individual variation was observed in potatoes and starches (20.7) in men and in pulses (26.0) in women. e) The number of days necessary to estimate true average nutrient intake was much longer for such vitamins as retinol and carotene (over 50 days) than for macronutrients (3-5 days) except for fat. More than one year was required to estimate intake of nuts and seeds in both sexes and alcoholic beverages or seaweeds in women, whereas only 9-15 days for intake of rice. In conclusion, energy, protein and carbohydrate can be estimated by short-period dietary recalls or records, since their intra-individual variations were relatively small. On the other hand, many days, were found to be required to estimate usual dietary intake of such vitamins as retinol or carotene and that of each food group except for rice. It would therefore be very difficult to estimate usual intake of these nutrients and food groups by short-period dietary recalls or records.
10543821	Most-probable-number (liquid serial dilution culture) counts were obtained for polysaccharolytic and saccharolytic fermenting bacteria in the anoxic bulk soil of flooded microcosms containing rice plants. The highest viable counts (up to 2.5 x 10(8) cells per g [dry weight] of soil) were obtained by using xylan, pectin, or a mixture of seven mono- and disaccharides as the growth substrate. The total cell count for the soil, as determined by using 4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining, was 4.8 x 10(8) cells per g (dry weight) of soil. The nine strains isolated from the terminal positive tubes in counting experiments which yielded culturable populations that were equivalent to about 5% or more of the total microscopic count population belonged to the division Verrucomicrobia, the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides division, clostridial cluster XIVa, clostridial cluster IX, Bacillus spp., and the class Actinobacteria. Isolates originating from the terminal positive tubes of liquid dilution series can be expected to be representatives of species whose populations in the soil are large. None of the isolates had 16S rRNA gene sequences identical to 16S rRNA gene sequences of previously described species for which data are available. Eight of the nine strains isolated fermented sugars to acetate and propionate (and some also fermented sugars to succinate). The closest relatives of these strains (except for the two strains of actinobacteria) were as-yet-uncultivated bacteria detected in the same soil sample by cloning PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes (U. Hengstmann, K.-J. Chin, P. H. Janssen, and W. Liesack, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 65:5050-5058, 1999). Twelve other isolates, which originated from most-probable-number counting series indicating that the culturable populations were smaller, were less closely related to cloned 16S rRNA genes.
10543822	We used both cultivation and direct recovery of bacterial 16S rRNA gene (rDNA) sequences to investigate the structure of the bacterial community in anoxic rice paddy soil. Isolation and phenotypic characterization of 19 saccharolytic and cellulolytic strains are described in the accompanying paper (K.-J. Chin, D. Hahn, U. Hengstmann, W. Liesack, and P. H. Janssen, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 65:5042-5049, 1999). Here we describe the phylogenetic positions of these strains in relation to 57 environmental 16S rDNA clone sequences. Close matches between the two data sets were obtained for isolates from the culturable populations determined by the most-probable-number counting method to be large (3 x 10(7) to 2.5 x 10(8) cells per g [dry weight] of soil). This included matches with 16S rDNA similarity values greater than 98% within distinct lineages of the division Verrucomicrobia (strain PB90-1) and the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides group (strains XB45 and PB90-2), as well as matches with similarity values greater than 95% within distinct lines of descent of clostridial cluster XIVa (strain XB90) and the family Bacillaceae (strain SB45). In addition, close matches with similarity values greater than 95% were obtained for cloned 16S rDNA sequences and bacteria (strains DR1/8 and RPec1) isolated from the same type of rice paddy soil during previous investigations. The correspondence between culture methods and direct recovery of environmental 16S rDNA suggests that the isolates obtained are representative geno- and phenotypes of predominant bacterial groups which account for 5 to 52% of the total cells in the anoxic rice paddy soil. Furthermore, our findings clearly indicate that a dual approach results in a more objective view of the structural and functional composition of a soil bacterial community than either cultivation or direct recovery of 16S rDNA sequences alone.
10543844	In two published reports using monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) generated against whole cells, Olsen et al. showed that strain-specific antigens on the surface of cultured cells of Sinorhizobium meliloti were diminished or absent in the endophytic cells (bacteroids) recovered from alfalfa nodules, whereas two common antigens were not affected by bacterial differentiation (P. Olsen, M. Collins, and W. Rice, Can. J. Microbiol. 38:506-509, 1992; P. Olsen, S. Wright, M. Collins, and W. Rice, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 60:654-661, 1994). The nature of the antigens (i.e., the MAb epitopes), however, were not determined in those studies. For this report, the epitopes for five of the anti-S. meliloti MAbs were identified by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis-immunoblot analyses of the polysaccharides extracted from S. meliloti and Sinorhizobium fredii. This showed that the strain-specific MAbs recognized K antigens, whereas the strain-cross-reactive MAbs recognized the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) core. The MAbs were then used in the analysis of the LPS and K antigens extracted from S. meliloti bacteroids, which had been recovered from the root nodules of alfalfa, and the results supported the findings of Olsen et al. The size range of the K antigens from bacteroids of S. meliloti NRG247 on polyacrylamide gels was altered, and the epitope was greatly diminished in abundance compared to those from the cultured cells, and no K antigens were detected in the S. meliloti NRG185 bacteroid extract. In contrast to the K antigens, the LPS core appeared to be similar in both cultured cells and bacteroids, although a higher proportion of the LPS fractionated into the organic phase during the phenol-water extraction of the bacteroid polysaccharides. Importantly, immunoblot analysis with an anti-LPS MAb showed that smooth LPS production was modified in the bacteroids.
10545413	The modifying effect of dietary administration of defatted rice-germ and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-enriched defatted rice-germ on azoxymethane (AOM)-induced colon carcinogenesis was investigated in two experiments with male F344 rats. In the first experiment (the pilot study), the effects of the defatted rice-germ, the GABA-enriched defatted rice-germ and rice-germ on AOM-induced (15 mg/kg body wt once a week for 3 weeks) formation of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) were examined. The latter two preparations (2.5% in the diet) significantly inhibited ACF formation (P < 0.005). In the second experiment, a long-term study of the effects of rice-germ was done. One group was treated with AOM alone, four groups received the carcinogen and were fed the diets containing 2.5% rice-germ or 2.5% GABA-enriched defatted rice-germ for 5 (initiation phase) or 30 weeks (post-initiation phase), two groups were treated with rice-germ or GABA-enriched defatted rice-germ alone and one group was kept on the basal diet. At the termination of the study, dietary exposure to rice-germ during the initiation phase significantly reduced the incidence of colonic adenocarcinoma (71 versus 29%, P < 0.01). GABA-enriched defatted rice-germ or rice-germ during the post-initiation phase also decreased the frequency of colonic adenocarcinoma (71 versus 20%, GABA-enriched defatted rice-germ feeding, P < 0.01; 27%, rice-germ feeding, P < 0.01). These data suggest that constituents of rice-germ are possible dietary preventatives for human colon cancers.
10545902
10545922	We have introduced an entomopoxvirus gene encoding a virus enhancing factor (EF) into rice, which resulted in high-level accumulation of the EF in the transgenic plants. The introduced gene was stably inherited in the progeny of the primary transformants, as shown by analysis of their genomic DNA. Bioassays for insect susceptibility to baculovirus infection showed that armyworm larvae feeding on the transgenic rice had increased susceptibility to a Nucleopolyhedrovirus. Thus, introduction of the EF gene into plants can be used as a strategy to increase the effectiveness of baculoviruses in insect pest management.
10548530	A rice class I low-molecular-mass heat shock protein (LMM HSP) Oshsp 16.9 was overexpressed in Escherichia coli. Oligomerized complexes of Oshsp16.9 were harvested and electron microscopic observations of purified complexes revealed globular structures of 10-20 nm in diameter (with majority of 15-18 nm) and calculated to comprise approx. 12 monomers per complex. In comparison, complexes from native rice class I LMM HSPs were observed as larger ellipsoid- or globular-like random aggregated hetero-oligomers. To characterize the biochemical functions of the hydrophobic N-terminal region of Oshsp16.9, a truncation in the N-terminal region was constructed and introduced into E. coli. Results showed that the N-terminal truncated Oshsp16.9 mutant was capable of forming complexes similar to the full-length Oshsp16.9; however, the deletion protein failed to confer in vitro protein thermostability under elevated temperatures. Protein assays from in vivo treatments at higher temperatures exhibited that non-specific interactions of E. coli cellular proteins only occurred with full-length Oshsp16.9 complexes but not with the mutant complex. In vitro immunoprecipitation of cellular proteins from E. coli overexpressing full-length Oshsp16.9 showed that interactions between plant LMM HSP and E. coli cellular proteins are temperature-dependent. Taken together, the hydrophobic N-terminal region of rice class I LMM HSP is critical in the ability of the protein to interact/bind with its potential substrates.
10549129	Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) of mitochondrial DNA in the genus Oryza was surveyed using 20 accessions including 11 species and a single endonuclease, EcoRI. RFLPs were visualized by Southern hybridization with eight rice mitochondrial DNA probes labeled non-radioactively with digoxigenin-dUTP. A total of 66 bands were obtained from all of the accessions. The total number of fragments per plant was higher in diploid A-genome species (an average of 35.3) than that in diploid B- and C-genome species and allotetraploid BC- and CD-genome species (an average of 28.2). The extent of the polymorphism in the RFLP patterns was various depending on the probes used. A diverse polymorphism was observed with most of the probes used, i.e. the cob, cox I, atp6, rrn18, rrn26 and atp9 regions, whereas, no polymorphic band was observed with a probe for the coxII region. The genus Oryza was separated into two large clusters. One cluster was comprised of A-genome species and the other cluster was comprised of B-, BC-, C-, and CD- genome species. Within A-genome species, the genetic variation was relatively high. Even in O. sativa species, the RFLP patterns of japonica and indica subspecies were clearly different from each other when three probes were used. However, there was no polymorphism between O. glaberrima and O. barthii. Within the genomes of B, BC, C, and CD, RFLP patterns were similar to each other and they showed a closer affinity except for O. minuta (BBCC). Within the BC genome species, the patterns of O. punctata and O. minuta were largely different from each other and separated into two different subclusters. Thus, the mitochondrial genomes of the two BC species (O. punctata and O. minuta) apparently evolved independently. Among CD genome species (O. latifolia and O. alta), the patterns of one accession, O. alta W0017 were largely different from those of the other accessions of CD genome species.
10551949	A field study made with rice at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, showed that coating urea with neem oil, neem cake or neem oil microemulsion improved rice growth and resulted in more grain and straw than did commercial prilled urea.
10552134	The allelopathy of a serious weed, barnyard grass (Echinochloa crus-galli L.), was investigated. Root exudates of young barnyard grass showed allelopathic effects and plant-selective activity and inhibited root elongation of all plants tested. With respect to shoot growth, the exudates did not show inhibition of barnyard grass only. The allelopathic substance was isolated and identified as p-hydroxymandelic acid by NMR. p-Hydroxymandelic acid strongly inhibited shoot growth and root elongation of all plants tested. The effects of three congeners of p-hydroxymandelic acid were tested on rice shoot growth. In the biological activity exhibited in rice, shoot growth was related to the hydroxyl groups.
10552425	Lipoxygenase (LOX) is thought to play an important role in the formation of desirable or undesirable flavor and aroma in many plant products. In rice seeds, LOX activity is localized in the bran fraction and LOX-3 is the major isozyme component. We used gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to determine whether the degree of staleness in the flavor of stored brown rice was related to the presence of LOX-3. We found that the amount of hexanal, pentanal, and pentanol in normal raw LOX-3 rice markedly increased during storage at 35 degrees C. That in LOX-3-less rice increased slightly but was a third to a fifth that of normal LOX-3 rice. In cooked rice, the amount of these components from glutinous rice exceeded that in nonglutinous rice, and that in normal LOX-3 rice exceeded that in LOX-3-less rice. These results indicate that the stale flavor production in LOX-3-less rice during storage is less than that in normal LOX-3 rice.
10552485	One-step hydrolysis of chitin to release glucosamine for quantitation was achieved by combining a chitin-containing sample (10-200 mg of sample size) in a test tube with 1 mL of 10 M HCl followed by vacuum treatment for 10 min, incubation at 28 degrees C for 30 min, replenishment with 3 mL of deionized water, nitrogen flushing, screw capping, and heat treatment at 140 degrees C for 60 min. A phosphate buffer solution (pH 12.5, 0.2 M) was effective in pH stabilization and enhancing colorimetric determination of glucosamine content. When the modified procedure was applied to analyze glucosamine content in the mycelia of various molds, glucosamine content varied mainly depending on mold species. In estimations of mold growth of the uninoculated peanut kernels incubated under a humidified condition for 5 weeks, cooked rice and soybean inoculated with conidia of Aspergillus oryzae for koji preparation, logarithms of the internal mold populations and glucosamine contents both increased with increases of incubation time. The modified procedure provided a rapid and reliable estimation of mold growth in various substrates.
10552553	High-purity gamma-oryzanol was obtained from crude rice bran oil using a normal-phase preparative scale HPLC. A reverse-phase HPLC method was used for separating the individual components of gamma-oryzanol present in rice bran oil. Ten fractions were isolated and collected using the reverse-phase HPLC method, and their structures were identified. Identification was accomplished using GC/MS with an electron impact mass spectrum after components were transformed into trimethylsilyl ether derivatives. The 10 components of gamma-oryzanol were identified as Delta(7)-stigmastenyl ferulate, stigmasteryl ferulate, cycloartenyl ferulate, 24-methylenecycloartanyl ferulate, Delta(7)-campestenyl ferulate, campesteryl ferulate, Delta(7)-sitostenyl ferulate, sitosteryl ferulate, compestanyl ferulate, and sitostanyl ferulate. Three of these, cycloartenyl ferulate, 24-methylenecycloartanyl ferulate, and campesteryl ferulate, were major components of gamma-oryzanol.
10552579	In many countries, baby cereals are the first solid food given to 3-4-month-old babies after weaning and to infants aged 6-12 months. Various simple technologies are traditionally used in the processing of cereals, including toasting, hydrolysis, and drying. In this study color and hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) assays have been used to evaluate heat effects induced during the manufacture of these foods. The baby cereals analyzed were wheat, rice, oat, and four mixtures of flours. No HMF was detected in the raw flours. Toasting the flours increased HMF values by between 1.1 and 4.53 mg/kg and color (DeltaE) values by 2.51-9.34. The drying step increased HMF values by between 1.14 and 19.60 mg/kg. High values of HMF coincided with the addition of ingredients containing HMF. Color and HMF contents in sugar-amino acid model systems were much higher than in sugar systems at temperatures >100 degrees C and low moisture content.
10552584	Stabilization of the avicide 3-chloro-p-toluidine (CPTH) on rice baits by pseudo latex polymeric coating and beta-cyclodextin inclusion was investigated. When CPTH-treated rice baits were exposed to sunlight, the CPTH formed colored compounds, which exacerbated problems with bait acceptance and efficacy. Fluidized bed coating with controlled-release polymeric psuedo latexes (RS, RL, NE) reduced CPTH loss but did not eliminate color formation. Enteric pseudo latex coatings (CAP and 4110) gave mixed results. Coating 4110 reduced CPTH loss but still allowed color formation, whereas CAP allowed more CPTH loss than any other coating as well as increased color formation. Inclusion in beta-cyclodextrin (molar ratio 1:1) led to enhanced retention of CPTH and minimal color formation. The CPT/beta-cyclodextrin adduct increased retention of CPTH from 43 to 70% upon simulated weathering. The retention was independent of the adhesives used for attachment.
10552599	The effect of microwave heat on lipoxygenase (LOX) activity in rice bran under various storage conditions was examined. Raw rice bran from the long-grain variety Lemont was adjusted to 21% moisture content and heated in a microwave oven at 850 W for 3 min. Raw and microwave-heated rice bran samples were packed in zipper-top bags or vacuum packs and stored at room temperature (25 degrees C) or in the refrigerator (4-5 degrees C) for 16 weeks. Samples were analyzed for LOX activity at 4-week intervals. LOX activity did not significantly change from its initial value at week 0 for zipper-top and vacuum-packed samples while stored at 4-5 degrees C for 12 weeks, but decreased at week 16. Vacuum packing did not show a significant impact on LOX activity during 16 weeks of storage. Microwave-heated samples stored in the refrigerator did not show significant change in LOX activity for up to 12 weeks but showed a significant (p < 0. 05) decrease at 16 weeks. Results showed that oxidative rancidity of rice bran could be prevented by microwave heating the samples, packing in zipper-top bags, and storing at 4-5 degrees C for up to 16 weeks.
10552606	The effect of microwave heating, packaging, and storage temperature on the production of free fatty acids (FFA) in rice bran was examined. Freshly milled raw rice bran was adjusted to 21% moisture content and heated in a microwave oven at 850 W for 3 min. Raw and microwave-heated rice bran were packed in zipper-top bags or vacuum-sealed bags and stored at 4-5 or 25 degrees C for 16 weeks. FFA content of bran was measured at 4-week intervals. Total FFA increased rapidly over the 16-week period from the initial value of 2.5% in raw bran stored at 25 degrees C to 54.9% in vacuum bags and 48.1% in zipper-top bags. However, total FFA of raw bran stored at 4-5 degrees C increased at a slower rate from an initial value of 2. 5 to 25.4% in vacuum bags and 19.5% in zipper-top bags. After 16 weeks of storage, total FFA of microwave-heated bran stored at 25 degrees C increased from 2.8 to 6.9 and 5.2%, respectively, for samples stored in vacuum bags and zipper-top bags. Total FFA of microwave-heated samples stored at 4-5 degrees C did not change significantly with storage time. Results showed that hydrolytic rancidity of rice bran can be prevented by microwave heating and that the recommended storage condition for microwaved rice bran is 4-5 degrees C in zipper-top bags.
10552660	The antibiotic Ao58A,which showed strong antifungal activity against some plant pathogenic fungi, was purified from the culture broth and mycelial mats of Micromonospora coerulea strain Ao58 using various chromatographic procedures. The molecular formula of the antibiotic Ao58A was deduced to be C(16)H(23)NO(4) (M + H, m/z 294.1707) by high-resolution FAB mass spectroscopy. Analyses of (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, and 2D NMR spectral data revealed that the antibiotic Ao58A is the glutarimide antibiotic streptimidone, 4-(2-hydroxy-5, 7-dimethyl-4-oxo-6,8-nonadienyl)-2,6-piperidinedione. The antibiotic Ao58A was very effective in inhibiting growth of Phytophthora capsici,Didymella bryoniae, Magnaporthe grisea, and Botrytis cinerea in the range approximately 3-10 microg mL(-)(1) of MICs. In vivo evaluation of the antibiotic Ao58A under greenhouse condition showed strong control efficacies against the development of P. capsici, B. cinerea, and M. grisea on pepper, cucumber, and rice plants, respectively. The antibiotic Ao58A was equally as effective as metalaxyl, vinclozolin, and tricyclazole in the control of these plant diseases. However, it did not show any phytotoxicity on the plants even when treated with 500 microg mL(-)(1).
10552815	Volatiles were obtained from commercially prepared and laboratory-prepared rice cakes using high-flow dynamic headspace isolation with Tenax trapping. Analysis was carried out by capillary GC/MS. More than 60 compounds were identified. Major volatiles included 1-hydroxy-2-propanone, furfuryl alcohol, 2, 5-dimethylpyrazine, 2-methylpyrazine, pyrazine, hexanal, furfural, pentanol, 3-hydroxy-2-butanone (acetoin), and ethyl-3, 6-dimethylpyrazine. Although not ideally applicable to a dry product, concentration/threshold ratios indicated that the compounds with a high probability of contributing to the aroma and flavor included 3-methylbutanal, dimethyl trisulfide, 2-ethyl-3,5-dimethylpyrazine, 4-vinylguaiacol, hexanal, (E,E)-2,4-decadienal, 2-methylbutanal, 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline, 1-octen-3-ol, and 1-octen-3-one.
10555303	The spatial and temporal distribution of sucrose synthase (RSuS) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) was studied by Western and immunohistochemical analyses using the monospecific antibodies for three RSuS isoforms. In leaf tissues, RSuS1 was localized in the mesophyll while RSuS2 was in the phloem in addition to the mesophyll. In the roots, only RSuS1 was found in the phloem. No RSuS3 could be detected in any parts of etiolated seedlings. The expression of each RSus gene is closely linked to the seed development. RSuS1 was present in the aleurone layers of developing seeds, and at a low level in endosperm cells. RSuS2 was evenly distributed in seed tissues other than the endosperm. RSuS3 was localized predominantly in the endosperm cells. The tissue specific localizations of the three gene products suggest that RSuS1 plays a role in sugar transport into endosperm cells where the reaction catalyzed by RSuS3 provides the precursor of starch synthesis. RSus2, which is ubiquitously expressed, may play a housekeeping role.
10555444	In 1981, the soil of cadmium (Cd)-polluted rice fields was replaced with new soil in Kashine, a Cd-polluted district located on Tsushima Island, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan. Consequently, the average dietary Cd intake among the inhabitants decreased from 215 micrograms/day in 1969 to 106 micrograms/day in 1983. The authors investigated the health status of Kashine inhabitants before and after the reduction of Cd intake. Concentrations of beta 2-microglobulin in urine (U-beta 2-mg) and Cd in urine (U-Cd), hair (H-Cd) and blood (B-Cd) were measured on 35 inhabitants in 1979 and 1996. The geometric mean of U-beta 2-mg concentration for 9 subjects with U-beta 2-mg levels > or = 1,000 micrograms/g creatinine (microgram/g cr) in 1979 increased by approximately 2.5-fold in 1996. Meanwhile there was little change in the geometric mean for 26 subjects with U-beta 2-mg levels < 1,000 micrograms/g cr in 1996. It was concluded that renal tubular dysfunction among Cd-exposed inhabitants was irreversible and progressive, even after dietary Cd intake decreased. The geometric mean of U-Cd concentration decreased significantly from 11.0 micrograms/g cr in 1979 to 6.3 micrograms/g cr in 1996. The decrease in U-Cd concentrations was significantly greater among inhabitants with U-beta 2-mg levels > or = 1,000 micrograms/g cr than among those with U-beta 2-mg levels < 1,000 micrograms/g cr (p = 0.03). From these results, it was considered that the level of U-Cd was more decreased by the presence of renal tubular dysfunction. The geometric mean of H-Cd concentration decreased significantly from 109.1 micrograms/kg in 1979 to 55.1 micrograms/kg in 1996. However, it was unclear whether the decrease of H-Cd depended on the decrease of dietary Cd intake, decrease of body burden or both, because U-Cd concentrations also decreased by approximately 43% during this period. H-Cd concentration was weakly and positively correlated with U-Cd (r = 0.38-0.44), an indicator of body burden of Cd. These results suggested that H-Cd concentration was influenced by the body burden of this metal. The geometric mean of B-Cd concentration in 33 inhabitants was 5.7 micrograms/l in 1996. The geometric mean was significantly greater in subjects with initial U-beta 2-mg levels > or = 1,000 micrograms/g cr than in those with U-beta 2-mg levels < 1,000 micrograms/g cr. A close positive correlation was found between B-Cd concentrations and U-Cd (r = 0.70, p < 0.01). It was suggested that the body burden influenced the levels of B-Cd as well as U-Cd, many years after Cd exposure had decreased.
10557228	Okadaic acid (OKA), a potent and specific inhibitor of protein serine/threonine phosphatases 1 and 2A, induced the accumulation of NADH-glutamate synthase (GOGAT) mRNA within 4 h in rice (Oryza sativa L.) cell cultures. In contrast to the transient accumulation of NADH-GOGAT mRNA by NH(4)(+), OKA caused a continuous accumulation for at least 24 h. The induction of NADH-GOGAT mRNA by OKA was not inhibited in the presence of methionine sulfoximine, which inhibited the NH(4)(+)-induced accumulation of mRNA. These results suggest that the OKA-sensitive protein phosphatase is involved in the regulation of NADH-GOGAT gene expression and probably plays a role in the signal transduction pathway downstream from NH(4)(+), although a signal transduction pathway other than that of nitrogen sensing could be responsible. Nuclear run-on assays demonstrated that the accumulation of NADH-GOGAT mRNA induced by the supply of either NH(4)(+) or OKA was mainly regulated at the transcription level. OKA effects were synergistic to the NH(4)(+)-induced expression of the NADH-GOGAT gene. In the presence of K-252a, a protein kinase inhibitor, the accumulation of NADH-GOGAT mRNA induced by either NH(4)(+) or OKA was reduced. The possible roles of protein phosphatases in the regulation of NADH-GOGAT gene expression are discussed.
10557229	WPK4, a gene encoding a putative protein kinase, was initially identified in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and shown to be up-regulated by light, nutrient deprivation, and cytokinins. To confirm that WPK4 has protein kinase activity, the protein was produced in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein with glutathione S-transferase. The purified protein exhibited autophosphorylation activity and phosphorylated both myelin basic protein and a peptide fragment of rice 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase. Levels of WPK4 transcripts in wheat seedlings were increased and decreased by the removal and addition of sucrose (Suc), respectively, to the culture medium. The introduction of the N-terminal kinase region of WPK4 into the yeast snf1 mutant cells, which cannot utilize Suc as a carbon source, rescued growth in Suc-containing medium. Cytokinins up-regulated the accumulation of WPK4 transcripts, but their effects were cancelled by the addition of Suc. Our results suggest that Suc negatively regulates the signaling pathway in which transcriptional activation of WPK4 is mediated by cytokinins.
10559435	The catalytic subunit of cellulose synthase is shown to be associated with the putative cellulose-synthesizing complex (rosette terminal complex [TC]) in vascular plants. The catalytic subunit domain of cotton cellulose synthase was cloned using a primer based on a rice expressed sequence tag (D41261) from which a specific primer was constructed to run a polymerase chain reaction that used a cDNA library from 24 days postanthesis cotton fibers as a template. The catalytic region of cotton cellulose synthase was expressed in Escherichia coli, and polyclonal antisera were produced. Colloidal gold coupled to goat anti-rabbit secondary antibodies provided a tag for visualization of the catalytic region of cellulose synthase during transmission electron microscopy. With a freeze-fracture replica labeling technique, the antibodies specifically localized to rosette TCs in the plasma membrane on the P-fracture face. Antibodies did not specifically label any structures on the E-fracture face. Significantly, a greater number of immune probes labeled the rosette TCs (i.e., gold particles were 20 nm or closer to the edge of the rosette TC) than did preimmune probes. These experiments confirm the long-held hypothesis that cellulose synthase is a component of the rosette TC in vascular plants, proving that the enzyme complex resides within the structure first described by freeze fracture in 1980. In addition, this study provides independent proof that the CelA gene is in fact one of the genes for cellulose synthase in vascular plants.
10562564	A new enzyme, which we named ribosomal RNA apurinic site specific lyase (RALyase), is described. The protein was found in wheat embryos and has a molecular weight of 50 625 Da. The enzyme specifically cleaves the phosphodiester bond at the 3' side of the apurinic site introduced by ribosome-inactivating proteins into the sarcin/ricin domain of 28S rRNA. The 3' and 5' ends of wheat 28S rRNA at the cleavage site are 5'-GUACG-alpha-hydroxy-alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehyde and pGAGGA-3', demonstrating that the enzyme catalyzes a beta-elimination reaction. The substrate specificity of the enzyme is extremely high: it acts only at the apurinic site in the sarcin/ricin domain of intact ribosomes, not on deproteinized rRNA or DNA containing apurinic sites. The amino acid sequences of five endopeptidase LysC-liberated peptides from the purified enzyme were determined and used to obtain a cDNA sequence. The open reading frame encodes a protein of 456 amino acids, and a homology search revealed a related rice protein. Similar enzyme activities were also found in other plants that express ribosome-inactivating proteins. We believe that RALyase is part of a complex self-defense mechanism.
10563909	Rice bran protein isolate (RBPI) containing approximately 92.0% protein was prepared from unstabilized and defatted rice bran using phytase and xylanase. The yield of RBPI increased from 34% to 74.6% through the use of the enzymatic treatment. Nitrogen solubilities of RBPI were 53, 8, 62, 78, 82, and 80% at pHs 2.0, 4.0, 6.0, 8.0, 10.0, and 12.0, respectively. Differential scanning calorimetry showed that RBPI had denaturation temperature of 83.4 degrees C with low endotherm (0.96 J/g of protein). RBPI had similar foaming properties in comparison to egg white. But emulsifying properties of RBPI were significantly lower than those of bovine serum albumin. The result of amino acid analysis showed that RBPI had a similar profile of essential amino acid requirements for 2-5-year-old children in comparison to that of casein and soy protein isolate.
10564026	Batters were prepared, using rice flour as the main component, and analyzed for their oil uptake properties during frying. Rice flour resisted oil absorption better but was less effective as a thickening agent than wheat flour. Of the rice components, increased amylose in the amylopectin/amylose ratio of the starch decreased the batter oil uptake, whereas increased protein content had the opposite effect. Various additives were introduced and investigated for their ability to develop viscosity and other desirable characteristics for the batter. As additives to the rice flour batters, phosphorylated starch and gelatinized rice flour enhanced both the thickening and oil-reducing capacities of the batter. Compared with values for batters from wheat flour, the percent batter oil uptake in the fried crust for the modified rice flour batters was decreased by up to 62%, and the percent total oil uptake for the whole coated drumstick was reduced by up to 59%.
10565542	We determined the nucleotide sequence of a cDNA encoding the catalase (CAT) isolated from wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). The deduced amino acid sequence suggests that this wheat catalase isozyme shared higher amino acid homology with group I CATs of barley CAT-1, rice CAT B and maize CAT-1 and CAT-2 but lower homology with group II CATs of barley CAT-2, rice CAT A and maize CAT-3. Both group I and II specific sequences of Ser-Arg-Leu and Ser-Ser-Ser, respectively considered as peroxisomal targeting signals were found first in monocot plant of wheat. Functionally important amino acids at active center and heme-binding sites detected in all other plant catalase were conserved.
10565741	To determine whether tea consumption and intake of other beverages increases bladder cancer risk. A case-control study was conducted in Kaohsiung, Taiwan between August 1996 and June 1997. Index patients studied were consecutive patients with histologically confirmed, newly diagnosed bladder cancer in two major hospitals. For each patient, 4 controls were selected from patients with non-neoplastic and nonurologic diseases undergoing surgical operations in the same hospital and individually matched by sex, age, and date of admission. Using a structured questionnaire, a trained interviewer interviewed 40 patients and 160 controls. Conditional logistic regression analysis adjusting for ethnicity, family history, and smoking status and matching variables were used to estimate the odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI). Tea consumption overall was associated with increased bladder cancer risk (OR 3.29, 95% CI 1.34 to 8.05). Compared with non-tea drinkers, the odds ratios of bladder cancer for oolong tea drinkers was 3.00 (95% CI 1.20 to 7.47); for non-oolong tea drinkers (black and/or other green tea), it was 14.86 (95% CI 2.13 to 103.83). The risk was greater among those who began to drink tea before age 40 (OR 9.50, 95% CI 2.39 to 37.75) and those who had been drinking tea for more than 30 years (OR 17.75, 95% CI 3.00 to 105.17). Coffee, tap water, and alcohol consumption were associated with a slightly increased risk, and both soy juice and rice juice consumption were associated with reduced risk; none of these odds ratio estimates were statistically significant, however. Our results suggest that tea consumption is associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer.
10566229	Mycotoxins are toxic metabolites produced by certain toxigenic microscopic fungi (moulds) in and on foods. Consequently mycotoxin-containing foods have been found all over the world: Africa, Asia, North and South America, Australia and Europe. The extent of the problem is greater in some parts of the world than in others because their climatic conditions are more favourable for mould growth and thus synthesis of mycotoxins. These toxins have been associated with various diseases-mycotoxicoses in humans throughout the world (ergotism, alimentary toxic aleukia, aflatoxicosis, balkan nephropathy, yellow rice disease, oesophageal cancer etc.). Mycotoxins can enter the food chain by one of two major routes: direct contamination resulting from the use of a food components contaminated with mycotoxins and indirect contamination resulting from the growth of toxigenic fungi of the food. Investigations of mycotoxins in foodstuffs, in human urine and human milk were incorporated into the system of Environmental Health Monitoring in the Czech Republic. The risk of acute toxic effects of mycotoxins was usually considered to be minimal in the Czech Republic. The risk of later toxic effects (particularly carcinogenic risk) after very low single or repeated mycotoxin concentrations in foodstuffs is very important.
10567929	Spores from the Bacillus species, B. cereus, B. anthracis, B. thuringensis, B. lichenformis, B. globigi, and B. subtilis, were examined by direct probe mass spectrometry using electron ionization (EI) and positive and negative chemical ionization (CI). Molecular ions from free fatty acids and nucleic acids were observed in the 70eV spectra as were fragments from glycerides. Spectra obtained with isobutane positive chemical ionization (CI(+)) were dominated by ions associated with pyranose compounds such as N-acetylglucosamine (NAG). Unlike the positive ion spectra, the negative ion spectra of the spores were very simple and contained few peaks. The M(-.) ion from dipicolinic acid (DPA) was the base peak in the negative ion spectra of all spore species except those from B. lichenformis. The negative ion of DPA produced such a strong signal that 10(8) colony forming units (CFUs) of B. cereus spores could be detected directly in 0.5 g of ground rice. Principal component analysis (PCA) of the spectra revealed that only CI(+) spectra contained differences that could be used to identify the spectra by species. Differentiation of the CI(+) spectra by PCA was attributed to variances in the peaks associated with the bacterial polymer poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB) and NAG. Similar differences in PHB and NAG peaks were detected in the CI(+) spectra of a suite of vegetative Bacillus stains grown with various media.
10568779	The developmental events of florets and a critical stage for sex determination in two wild-rice populations (Zizania palustris cv. Franklin and Zizania palustris cv. K-2Pi) have been identified. Formation of bisexual florets precedes the development of both male and female florets. Developmental indicators, established by measuring the length of florets and panicles, indicate that the critical stage for sex determination occurs when floret and panicle lengths are 1-2 mm and 3 cm, respectively. The stage of floret development at which sex determination occurs is the same in the two investigated wild-rice populations. Organ suppression in bisexual florets is an essential step for sex determination during the formation of unisexual florets. Histological examination of suppressed stamens or pistils in unisexual florets of wild-rice indicates that cell death does not occur during sex determination. In addition, the length of anthers and pistils in bisexual florets indicates that floral development in the transition zone is normal when compared with the male florets in the male spikelets and female florets in the female spikelets.
10568840	Methanogenic cultures were enriched from an air-dried rice field soil and incubated under anaerobic conditions at 30 degrees C with cellulose as substrate (ET1). The culture was then transferred and further incubated at either 15 degrees C (E15) or 30 degrees C (E30), to establish stable cultures that methanogenically degrade cellulose. After five transfers, the rates of CH(4) production became reproducible. At 30 degrees C, CH(4) production rates were (mean+/-S.D.) 15.2+/-0.7 nmol h(-1) ml(-1) culture for the next 16 transfers and at 15 degrees C, they were 0.38+/-0.07 nmol h(-1) ml(-1) for the next six transfers. When E30 was assayed at temperatures between 5-50 degrees C, CH(4) production rates increased with the temperature, reached a maximum at 40 degrees C and then decreased. The same temperature optimum was observed in E15, but with a lower maximum CH(4) production rate. The apparent activation energies of CH(4) production were similar (about 120 kJ mol(-1)4 mM at the beginning of the assay. The structure of the archaeal community was analyzed by molecular techniques. Total DNA was extracted from the microbial cultures before the transfer to different temperatures (ET1) and afterwards (E15, E30). The archaeal small subunit (SSU) ribosomal RNA-encoding genes (rDNA) of these DNA samples were amplified by PCR with archaeal-specific primers and characterized by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP). After obtaining a constant T-RFLP pattern in the cultural transfers at 15 and 30 degrees C, the PCR amplicons were used for the generation of clone libraries. Representative rDNA clones (n=10 for each type of culture) were characterized by T-RFLP and sequence analysis. In the primary culture (ET1), the archaeal community was dominated by clones representing 'rice cluster I', a novel lineage of methanogenic Euryarchaeota. However, further transfers resulted in the dominance of Methanosarcinaceae and Methanosaetaceae at 30 and 15 degrees C, respectively. This dominance was confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) of archaeal cells. Obviously, different archaeal communities were established at the two different temperatures, but their activities nevertheless exhibited similar temperature optima.
10570123	The effect of atmospheric aerosols and regional haze from air pollution on the yields of rice and winter wheat grown in China is assessed. The assessment is based on estimates of aerosol optical depths over China, the effect of these optical depths on the solar irradiance reaching the earth's surface, and the response of rice and winter wheat grown in Nanjing to the change in solar irradiance. Two sets of aerosol optical depths are presented: one based on a coupled, regional climate/air quality model simulation and the other inferred from solar radiation measurements made over a 12-year period at meteorological stations in China. The model-estimated optical depths are significantly smaller than those derived from observations, perhaps because of errors in one or both sets of optical depths or because the data from the meteorological stations has been affected by local pollution. Radiative transfer calculations using the smaller, model-estimated aerosol optical depths indicate that the so-called "direct effect" of regional haze results in an approximately 5-30% reduction in the solar irradiance reaching some of China's most productive agricultural regions. Crop-response model simulations suggest an approximately 1:1 relationship between a percentage increase (decrease) in total surface solar irradiance and a percentage increase (decrease) in the yields of rice and wheat. Collectively, these calculations suggest that regional haze in China is currently depressing optimal yields of approximately 70% of the crops grown in China by at least 5-30%. Reducing the severity of regional haze in China through air pollution control could potentially result in a significant increase in crop yields and help the nation meet its growing food demands in the coming decades.
10570197	We have investigated mRNA 3'-end-processing signals in each of six eukaryotic species (yeast, rice, arabidopsis, fruitfly, mouse, and human) through the analysis of more than 20,000 3'-expressed sequence tags. The use and conservation of the canonical AAUAAA element vary widely among the six species and are especially weak in plants and yeast. Even in the animal species, the AAUAAA signal does not appear to be as universal as indicated by previous studies. The abundance of single-base variants of AAUAAA correlates with their measured processing efficiencies. As found previously, the plant polyadenylation signals are more similar to those of yeast than to those of animals, with both common content and arrangement of the signal elements. In all species examined, the complete polyadenylation signal appears to consist of an aggregate of multiple elements. In light of these and previous results, we present a broadened concept of 3'-end-processing signals in which no single exact sequence element is universally required for processing. Rather, the total efficiency is a function of all elements and, importantly, an inefficient word in one element can be compensated for by strong words in other elements. These complex patterns indicate that effective tools to identify 3'-end-processing signals will require more than consensus sequence identification.
10570799	Recombinant human alpha 1-antitrypsin (rAAT) was expressed and secreted from transgenic rice cell suspension cultures in its biologically active form. This was accomplished by transforming rice callus tissues with an expression vector, p3D-AAT, containing the cDNA for mature human AAT protein. Regulated expression and secretion of rAAT from this vector was achieved using the promoter, signal peptide, and terminator from a rice alpha-amylase gene Amy3D. The Amy3D gene of rice is tightly controlled by simple sugars such as sucrose. It was possible, therefore, to induce the expression of the rAAT by removing sucrose from the cultured media or by allowing the rice suspension cells to deplete sucrose catabolically. Although transgenic rice cell produced a heterogeneous population of the rAAT molecules, they had the same N-terminal amino acids as those found in serum-derived (native) AAT from humans. This result indicates that the rice signal peptidase recognizes and cleaves the novel sequence between the Amy3D signal peptide and the first amino acid of the mature human AAT. The highest molecular weight band seen on Western blots (AAT top band) was found to have the correct C-terminal amino acid sequence and normal elastase binding activity. Staining with biotin-concanavalin A and avidin horseradish peroxidase confirmed the glycosylation of the rAAT, albeit to a lesser extent than that observed with native AAT. The rAAT, purified by immunoaffinity chromatography, had the same association rate constant for porcine pancreatic elastase as the native AAT. Thermostability studies revealed that the rAAT and native AAT decayed at the same rate, suggesting that the rAAT is correctly folded. The productivity of rice suspension cells expressing rAAT was 4.6-5.7 mg/g dry cell. Taken together, these results support the use of rice cell culture as a promising new expression system for production of biologically active recombinant proteins.
10571469	Assessment of the influence of carbofuran on the nontarget cyanobacterium Anabaena doliolum revealed that this sheathless heterocystous form of cyanobacteria was more sensitive to the insecticide carbofuran. Anabaena doliolum was initially able to utilize low concentrations of carbofuran, whereas higher concentrations and the subsequent formation of hydrolytic breakdown products were toxic. Growth inhibition reached more than 50% by treatment with 80 and 100 ppm of the insecticide. Nitrogenase activity of the cyanobacterium was reduced by 38% after 48 h by treatment with 100 ppm carbofuran with no observed change in heterocyst frequency. Toxicity of the insecticide was the highest at pH 4-6 (46-59%) and the lowest at pH 7-10 (12-27%) due to the persistence of carbofuran and the resulting alkaline-catalyzed hydrolysis associated with the water regime of the rice fields. Doubling the initial population level of the cyanobacterium reduced the toxicity of the insecticide.
10571892	The nucleotide binding site (NBS) is a characteristic domain of many plant resistance gene products. An increasing number of NBS-encoding sequences are being identified through gene cloning, PCR amplification with degenerate primers, and genome sequencing projects. The NBS domain was analyzed from 14 known plant resistance genes and more than 400 homologs, representing 26 genera of monocotyledonous, dicotyle-donous and one coniferous species. Two distinct groups of diverse sequences were identified, indicating divergence during evolution and an ancient origin for these sequences. One group was comprised of sequences encoding an N-terminal domain with Toll/Interleukin-1 receptor homology (TIR), including the known resistance genes, N, M, L6, RPP1 and RPP5. Surprisingly, this group was entirely absent from monocot species in searches of both random genomic sequences and large collections of ESTs. A second group contained monocot and dicot sequences, including the known resistance genes, RPS2, RPM1, I2, Mi, Dm3, Pi-B, Xa1, RPP8, RPS5 and Prf. Amino acid signatures in the conserved motifs comprising the NBS domain clearly distinguished these two groups. The Arabidopsis genome is estimated to contain approximately 200 genes that encode related NBS motifs; TIR sequences were more abundant and outnumber non-TIR sequences threefold. The Arabidopsis NBS sequences currently in the databases are located in approximately 21 genomic clusters and 14 isolated loci. NBS-encoding sequences may be more prevalent in rice. The wide distribution of these sequences in the plant kingdom and their prevalence in the Arabidopsis and rice genomes indicate that they are ancient, diverse and common in plants. Sequence inferences suggest that these genes encode a novel class of nucleotide-binding proteins.
10574457	We report the nucleotide sequence of a gene encoding the c ('16 kDa') subunit of the vacuolar-type H+-ATPase (V-ATPase) from a marine red alga, Porphyra yezoensis. A cDNA clone was isolated from a leafy gametophyte cDNA library and analyzed for the sequence. The genomic DNA sequence was directly determined by nested PCR. The structural gene contained four introns within a coding sequence of 483 base pairs which encodes a polypeptide of 161-amino acids with four hydrophobic transmembrane-spanning regions. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences showed higher similarity to the land plant Oryza sativa (69.1%) than to the Ulvophyceae Acetabularia acetabulum (64.1%). The mRNA was detected both in the leafy gametophytes and filamentous sporophytes.
10575365	Ever changing problems in agricultural weed control require periodic introduction of new herbicides. Imidazo[4,5-c]pyrazoles, which were considered of interest as potential herbicides, were synthesized and examined for the pre-emergence, post-emergence, and post-transplant control of weeds in rice against broadleaf and grass weed species. The data obtained suggest that some imidazo[4,5-c]pyrazoles have potential herbicidal activity against a wide range of weeds, with 5-methyl, 5-thiomethyl, and 5-unsubstituted derivatives being the most effective. No herbicidal activity was observed in the 5-methylsulfonylimidazo[4,5-c]pyrazole and imidazo[4,5-c]pyrazolone series.
10577064
10581295	The cloning of genes for complex traits in polyploid plants that possess large genomes, such as hexaploid wheat, requires an efficient strategy. We present here one such strategy focusing on the homologous pairing suppressor (Ph1) locus of wheat. This locus has been shown to affect both premeiotic and meiotic processes, possibly suggesting a complex control. The strategy combined the identification of lines carrying specific deletions using multiplex PCR screening of fast-neutron irradiated wheat populations with the approach of physically mapping the region in the rice genome equivalent to the deletion to reveal its gene content. As a result, we have located the Ph1 factor controlling the euploid-like level of homologous chromosome pairing to the region between two loci (Xrgc846 and Xpsr150A). These loci are located within 400 kb of each other in the rice genome. By sequencing this region of the rice genome, it should now be possible to define the nature of this factor.
10584057	Although consumption of whole-grain foods seems to reduce the risk of several types of neoplasms, the potential influence of a diet rich in starches and refined grains is less clear. We studied the relation between the frequency of consumption of refined cereals (bread, pasta, or rice) and the risk of selected neoplasms. This was an integrated series of case-control studies conducted in northern Italy between 1983 and 1993. The subjects were patients admitted to the major teaching and general hospitals in Milan and Pordenone with incident, histologically confirmed cancers: 343 with cancer of the oral cavity and pharynx, 94 with cancer of the esophagus, 146 with cancer of the larynx, 745 with cancer of the stomach, 955 with cancer of the colon, 625 with cancer of the rectum, and 428 with cancer of the thyroid. The control subjects were 3526 patients admitted to the same network of hospitals for acute nonneoplastic conditions unrelated to long-term modification of diet. Odds ratios (ORs) for consecutive tertiles of refined-cereal consumption were computed after allowance for sociodemographic variables, education, smoking status, alcohol consumption, body mass index, and consumption of fruit, vegetables, and whole-grain foods. The ORs for the highest tertile of refined-cereal intake were 1.6 for cancer of the oral cavity, pharynx, esophagus, or larynx; 1.5 for stomach cancer; 1.5 for colon cancer; 1.3 for cancer of the rectum; and 2.0 for thyroid cancer. The trends in risk were significant for all neoplasms considered. Consumption of refined cereals was associated with an increased risk of cancers of the large bowel, the stomach, and other selected digestive and nondigestive sites.
10584310	Using contiguous genomic DNA sequences of Arabidopsis thaliana, we were able to identify a region of conserved structure in the genome of rice. The conserved, and presumptive homoeologous segments, are 194 kb and 219-300 kb in size in Arabidopsis and rice, respectively. They contain five homologous genes, distinguished in order by a single inversion. These represent the first homoeologous segments identified in the genomes of a dicot and a monocot, demonstrating that fine-scale conservation of genome structure exists and is detectable across this major divide in the angiosperms. The conserved framework of genes identified is interspersed with non-conserved genes, indicating that mechanisms beyond segmental inversions and translocations need to be invoked to fully explain plant genome evolution, and that the benefits of comparative genomics over such large taxonomic distances may be limited.
10585194	A simple procedure for the extraction of the lipolytic activity from rice bran has been developed. Various conditions of extraction have been optimized so as to obtain maximum yield of the lipase. It was found that high enzyme activity could be obtained by first defatting the rice bran to remove the lipid component. This was followed by five cycles of aqueous extraction (potassium phosphate buffer, 50 mM and pH 7, containing 0.5 mM of CaCl(2)). The stability of the rice bran lipase under storage and operative conditions was investigated. Further, the influence of glycerol as a stabilizer has been assessed. It was found that further purification using micro- and ultrafiltration yielded an enzyme preparation with higher activity and specific activity and better stability.
10585723	As the processing mechanism of all known potyviruses involves the activity of cysteine proteinases, we asked whether constitutive expression of a rice cysteine proteinase inhibitor gene could induce resistance against two important potyviruses, tobacco etch virus (TEV) and potato virus Y (PVY), in transgenic tobacco plants. Tobacco lines expressing the foreign gene at varying levels were examined for resistance against TEV and PVY infection. There was a clear, direct correlation between the level of oryzacystatin message, inhibition of papain (a cysteine proteinase), and resistance to TEV and PVY in all lines tested. The inhibitor was ineffective against tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) infection because processing of this virus does not involve cysteine proteinases. These results show that plant cystatins can be used against different potyviruses and potentially also against other viruses, whose replication involves cysteine proteinase activity.
10586517	The 441-bp DNA segment in a PCR-amplified fragment from Oryza sativa cv. IR36 was found to have a sequence with features characteristic of LTRs of retroelements, which was named RIRE2 (Rice retroelement #2) and further analyzed. Cloning and sequencing analyses of the DNA segments connected to LTR-like sequence showed that RIRE2 has a long internal region almost 10 kb long that is flanked by LTR-like sequences. This internal region carries a primer binding site (PBS) and polypurine tract (PPT) which are necessary for cDNA synthesis of retroelements. The PBS sequence is complementary to the 3' end region of tRNA(Arg). The internal region has an rt gene homologous to that of gypsy-type retrotransposons, evidence that RIRE2 is indeed a retrotransposon related to gypsy from Drosophila. RIRE2 has an extra sequence more than 4 kb long in the region downstream of gag-pol. Phylogenetic analysis of the putative amino-acid sequences of the rt gene as well as the int gene showed that RIRE2 is related to a group of gypsy-type retrotransposons of a large size that include Grande1-4 of teosinte, Tat4-1 and Athila1-1 of Arabidopsis thaliana, and Cyclops-2 of pea, but distantly related to any other group of gypsy-type retrotransposons, including RIRE3 and RIRE8 of rice. RIRE2 and Grande1-4 had the highest homology in the gag-pol region, but the nucleotide sequences of the LTR regions differed. Both elements had significant homology in the middle area of the extra regions downstream of gag-pol, in which they had an open reading frame encoding a protein with no known function on the opposite strand from that coding for gag-pol.
10586878	Comparative biology requires a firm phylogenetic foundation to uncover and understand patterns of diversification and evaluate hypotheses of the processes responsible for these patterns. In the angiosperms, studies of diversification in floral form, stamen organization, reproductive biology, photosynthetic pathway, nitrogen-fixing symbioses and life histories have relied on either explicit or implied phylogenetic trees. Furthermore, to understand the evolution of specific genes and gene families, evaluate the extent of conservation of plant genomes and make proper sense of the huge volume of molecular genetic data available for model organisms such as Arabidopsis, Antirrhinum, maize, rice and wheat, a phylogenetic perspective is necessary. Here we report the results of parsimony analyses of DNA sequences of the plastid genes rbcL and atpB and the nuclear 18S rDNA for 560 species of angiosperms and seven non-flowering seed plants and show a well-resolved and well-supported phylogenetic tree for the angiosperms for use in comparative biology.
10588183	We aimed to establish whether there was a variation in orocecal transit time (OCTT) in Myanmar children and whether shortened transit time correlated with malnutrition. OCTT was measured in 90 healthy Myanmar children aged 1-5 years, using the hydrogen breath test (10g in 10% aqueous solution). The relationships between OCTT, sex, age, and malnutrition status were assessed. OCTT for 1 to 5-year old children was 90.2 +/- 20min (mean +/- SD). There was no significant difference in mean OCTT between boys and girls, breast-fed and weaned children, malnourished and non-malnourished children. There was also no difference between age groups (1-2 years, 2-3 years, 3-4 years, and 4-5 years), and no correlation was found between age and orocecal transit time. The assessment of OCTT using the lactulose breath hydrogen test was found to be feasible and acceptable in the field setting. The OCTT of Myanmar children with rice as a staple food is similar to that of children from developed countries having a different diet, and no shortening of transit time was demonstrated in children with malnutrition.
10588717	The rice genus, Oryza, which comprises 23 species and 9 recognized genome types, represents an enormous gene pool for genetic improvement of rice cultivars. Clarification of phylogenetic relationships of rice genomes is critical for effective utilization of the wild rice germ plasm. By generating and comparing two nuclear gene (Adh1 and Adh2) trees and a chloroplast gene (matK) tree of all rice species, phylogenetic relationships among the rice genomes were inferred. Origins of the allotetraploid species, which constitute more than one-third of rice species diversity, were reconstructed based on the Adh gene phylogenies. Genome types of the maternal parents of allotetraploid species were determined based on the matK gene tree. The phylogenetic reconstruction largely supports the previous recognition of rice genomes. It further revealed that the EE genome species is most closely related to the DD genome progenitor that gave rise to the CCDD genome. Three species of the CCDD genome may have originated through a single hybridization event, and their maternal parent had the CC genome. The BBCC genome species had different origins, and their maternal parents had either a BB or CC genome. An additional genome type, HHKK, was recognized for Oryza schlechteri and Porteresia coarctata, suggesting that P. coarctata is an Oryza species. The AA genome lineage, which contains cultivated rice, is a recently diverged and rapidly radiated lineage within the rice genus.
10589160	F1 pollen sterility in cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) was found to be caused by at least six loci of F1 pollen sterility genes. At the S-a locus, one of the six loci for F1 pollen sterility, the allelic interaction of S-ai and S-aj causes the male gametes carrying S-aj allele abortive. To map the S-a locus, Taichung 65(T65), a Keng (japonica) variety with S-aj/S-aj, its isogenic F1 sterile line TISL4 with S-ai/S-ai from Chin-tsao, a Hsien (indica) variety, and the F2 population from cross T65 x TISL4 were used as materials. The polymorphism between T65 and TISL4 detected by RFLP and RAPD analysis was less than 1%. This result indicated that short segments from Chin-tsao were introgressed into the isogenic F1 sterile line, since the TISL4 was developed by repeatedly backcrossing for thirteen times. By linkage analysis of S-a and the marker loci, the S-a locus was mapped on chromosome 1. The genetic distances between S-a and RFLP markers CDO548 and RG146 are 6.4 cM and 7.2 cM respectively, and those between S-a and RAPD markers O11-1000 and Y13-500 are 6.8 cM and 11.2 cM respectively. The mapping of the S-a locus is an important step towards marker-aided selection for overcoming the hybrid sterility in rice.
10589161	A reproducible and efficient transformation system for indica rice was developed based on microprojectile bombardment of embryogenic callus. Sufficient globular embryogenic calli were produced within 2-6 weeks from 3-4 week old calli derived from mature embryos. The embryogenic calli were bombarded with the plasmid pFWZ16 containing bar gene and B.t. delta-endotoxin gene. Selection, pre-regeneration, regeneration and rooting were carried out on media with 2-4 mg/L Basta. Partial desiccation treatment was used to increase the efficiency of regeneration. Transformed plantlets were recovered within 4-5 months after mature seeds were plated. From 821 bombarded embryogenic calli of two elite rice varieties popularized in South China, 477 Basta resistant plants of 48 lines were obtained. Results of PCR, Southern blotting, RNA dot blotting, and topical application of Basta demonstrated that the foreign bar gene and B.t. gene were integrated into the genome of transgenic rice plants, and also expressed. 87.5% of the transgenic plants were fertile. Mendelian segregation of the foreign genes was indicated by Basta application and Southern blot analysis of R1 plants.
10589162	Two test cross populations were developed by crossing a set of DH lines as male parents to two wide compatibility rice lines, photoperiod-sensitive genic male sterile (PGMS) line-N422S and thermosensitive-genic male sterile (TGMS) line-Peiai64S. Polymorphism of the cross parents and another set of diverse indica or japonica lines (as a control) was assayed by using 92 RFLP markers. 41 RFLP markers were detected highly associated with indica and japonica phenotypes, which can be used as diagnostic markers to differentiate indica and japonica. Our results indicated that 87.8% of the diagnostic markers were also highly associated with grain yield and its components in at least one of the test cross populations, suggesting parallel relationships between the genes involving in evolution and QTLs controlling grain yield and yield components in the process of differentiation of rice (O. sativa L.). Further analysis indicated that fertility was a main factor affecting the heterosis for grain yield in inter-subspecific rice hybrids. The fertility was conditioned by both intra-locus and inter-locus gene interactions and favorable genic interactions could raise it accordingly.
10589827	Tag1 is an autonomous transposable element of Arabidopsis thaliana that displays tight developmental control of its excision during shoot development. To determine how Tag1 behaves in a monocotyledonous species, Tag1 was inserted in a 35S-GUS marker gene and the construct was introduced into rice. Tag1 showed somatic excision activity in four out of eleven transgenic lines examined. In leaves, excision was primarily restricted to vascular bundles and produced sectors composed of only a few cells. Excision events in flowers occurred predominantly in or near the major veins of the palea and lemma to produce small sectors. In roots, small sectors were evident, but they were few in number. These data show that the timing of Tag1 excision during rice shoot development is late and mimics the late excision behavior of Tag1 in Arabidopsis. One of the transgenic rice lines, which had a high frequency of somatic excision, produced several germinal revertants, one of which was characterized by a new Tag1 insertion band. The pattern of Tag1 transcripts and the footprint sequences left behind after excision in rice were found to be very similar to those in Arabidopsis. These results show that key properties of Tag1 transposition and behavior are conserved between monocots and dicots and that Tag1 has the potential to serve as an insertional mutagen in rice.
10589837	Tourist-OsaCatA, a transposable element, was found in the 5'-flanking region of the rice gene CatA. The characteristics of this element are similar to those of the other Tourist elements so far found in Oryza sativa. PCR and sequence analyses of 37 accessions of 18 species revealed that all the Oryza species examined, except for one accession, have either a full-length or a partial Tourist element at this locus. Unlike the Tourist elements previously reported, this Tourist element is found in all four Oryza species complexes in the Oryzeae tribe. All AA genome Oryza species, except O. longistaminata, contain the full-length Tourist element. O. longistaminata and the species of the O. officinalis, O. meyeriana and O. ridleyi complexes contain the partial element. A phylogenetic tree of Oryza species based on the nucleotide sequences of these Tourist elements was constructed. The O. longistaminata accessions were placed near the neighboring cluster of the officinalis complex. We propose that the ancestor of O. longistaminata and that of other species with the AA genome diverged, and the ancestor(s) of the O. officinalis, O. ridleyi and O. meyeriana complexes then diverged from the ancestor of O. longistaminata in the course of the evolution of the Oryza species. The Tourist elements associated with CatA and its orthologs thus provide useful tools for examining evolutionary relationships among Oryza species.
10591043	Fumonisin B1 (FB1) is the most abundant of a series of sphingosine analog mycotoxins produced by the fungus Fusarium moniliforme, a ubiquitous contaminant of stored corn (maize) worldwide. FB1 exhibits a variety of biological activities including phytotoxicity, which is of particular interest for its potential role as a virulence factor to facilitate invasion of plant tissues by the fungus. Droplets of FB1 solution applied to the leaf surface of jimsonweed, black nightshade, and susceptible tomatoes caused necrosis, growth inhibition, and death. With Arabidopsis thaliana grown on agar plates, an IC50 (concentration causing half maximal phytotoxicity) of less than 1 ppm was observed. [3H]FB1 was prepared by biosynthetic incorporation of commercially-available radiolabeled presumptive precursors into the toxin in rice medium solid cultures of F. moniliforme JW#1. The labeled toxin produced by incorporation of [9,10-3H]palmitate induced phytotoxic symptoms identical to unlabeled material, indicating it had full biological activity. The area of necrosis on treated leaves was similar in light and dark treated plants. Using liquid scintillation counting to quantify radioactivity in excised plant parts, over 95% of the [3H]FB1 radioactivity applied to leaves of light or dark-treated plants was recovered from the treated leaf. When [3H]FB1 was applied to a wound site on target plants, severe damage occurred at the site of FB1 application and in tissue above the site. These results indicate that FB1 applied to intact surfaces of target plants exhibits primarily contact activity. Translocation of FB1 is limited, occurring only when FB1 is applied to a wound site, and it results in damage to tissue above the point of application, indicating that FB1 is xylem mobile.
10592042	By using the mRNA differential display approach to isolate defense signaling genes active at the early stage of fungal infection two cDNA fragments with high sequence homology to rab-specific GDP-dissociation inhibitors (GDIs) were identified in rice (Oryza sativa L.) suspension cells. Using polymerase-chain-reaction products as probes, two full-length cDNA clones were isolated from a cDNA library of fungal-elicitor-treated rice, and designated as OsGDI1 and OsGDI2. The deduced amino acid sequences of the isolated cDNAs exhibited substantial homology to Arabidopsis rab-GDIs. Northern analysis revealed that transcripts detected with the 3'-gene-specific DNA probes accumulated to high levels within 30 min after treatment with a fungal elicitor derived from Magnaporthe grisea. The functionality of the OsGDIs was demonstrated by their ability to rescue the Sec19 mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae which is defective in vesicle transport. The proteins, expressed in Escherchia coli, cross-reacted with a polyclonal antibody prepared against bovine rab-GDI. Like bovine rab-GDI, the OsGDI proteins efficiently dissociated rab3A from bovine synaptic membranes. Using the two-hybrid system, it was shown that the OsGDIs specifically interact with the small GTP-binding proteins belonging to the rab subfamily. The specific interaction was also demonstrated in vitro by glutathione S-transferase resin pull-down assay.
10592192	The Rice Genome Research Program (RGP) launched a large-scale rice genome sequencing in 1998 aimed at decoding all genetic information in rice. A new genome database called INE (INtegrated rice genome Explorer) has been developed in order to integrate all the genomic information that has been accumulated so far and to correlate these data with the genome sequence. A web interface based on Java applet provides a rapid viewing capability in the database. The first operational version of the database has been completed which includes a genetic map, a physical map using YAC (Yeast Artificial Chromosome) clones and PAC (P1-derived Artificial Chromosome) contigs. These maps are displayed graphically so that the positional relationships among the mapped markers on each chromosome can be easily resolved. INE incorporates the sequences and annotations of the PAC contig. A site on low quality information ensures that all submitted sequence data comply with the standard for accuracy. As a repository of rice genome sequence, INE will also serve as a common database of all sequence data obtained by collaborating members of the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP). The database can be accessed at http://www. dna.affrc.go.jp:82/giot/INE. html or its mirror site at http://www.staff.or.jp/giot/INE.html
10592372	The EPIC-Heidelberg and the EPIC-Potsdam studies with about 53,000 study participants represent the German contribution to the EPIC (European Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition) cohort study. Within the EPIC study, standardized 24-hour dietary recalls were applied as a quantitative calibration method in order to estimate the amount of scaling bias introduced by the varying center-specific dietary assessment methods. This article presents intake of food items and food groups in the two German cohorts estimated by 24-hour quantitative dietary recalls. Recalls from 1,013 men and 1,078 women in Heidelberg and 1,032 men and 898 women in Potsdam were included in the analysis. The intake of recorded food items or recipe ingredients as well as fat used for cooking was summarized into 16 main food groups and a variety of different subgroups stratified by sex and weighted for the day of the week and age. In more than 90% of the recalls, consumption of dairy products, cereals and cereal products, bread, fat, and non-alcoholic beverages, particularly coffee/tea, was reported. Inter-cohort evaluations revealed that bread, potatoes, fruit and fat were consumed in higher amounts in the Potsdam cohort while the opposite was found for pasta/rice, non-alcoholic, and alcoholic beverages. It was concluded that the exposure variation was increased by having two instead of one EPIC study centers in Germany.
10593587	Bacillus amyloliquefaciens DS11 phytase (DS11 phytase) and Aspergillus ficuum phytase (AF phytase) activities were investigated by measuring the release of phosphate from phytate in animal feedstuff such as wheat bran, corn meal, soybean meal and rice flour at pH 5 and 7. In all the tested feedstuff, the enzymatic activity of DS11 phytase was more active at pH 7, but that of AF phytase was more active at pH 5. From these results, the phytate in the gastrointestinal tract could be degraded in the small intestine or stomach by DS11 or AF phytase, respectively. In conclusion, the results presented in this paper indicated that different combination ratios of DS11 and AF phytase, depending on the kind of feedstuff, might effectively induce more enzymatic activity both in the stomach and small intestine in terms of the pH of the gastrointestinal tract.
10593954	Lipo-oligosaccharides (LOS) produced by Neisseria gonorrhoeae are important antigenic and immunogenic components of the outer membrane complex. Previously, we showed that murine monoclonal antibody (mAb) 2C7 did not cross-react with human glycosphingolipids but identified the LOS epitope that is widely expressed in vivo and in vitro (Gulati, S., McQuillen, D. P., Mandrell, R. E., Jani, D. B., and Rice, P. A. (1996) J. Infect. Dis. 174, 1223-1237). In the present study, we analyzed the structure of gonococcal strain WG LOS containing the 2C7 epitope and investigated the structural requirements for expression of the epitope. We determined that the WG LOS components are Hep[1]-elongated forms of 15253 LOS that have a lactose on both Hep[1] and Hep[2] (Yamasaki, R., Kerwood, D. E., Schneider, H., Quinn, K. P., Griffiss, J. M., and Mandrell, R. E. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 30345-30351). In addition, we found that expression of the 2C7 epitope within the LOS is blocked when the Hep[2]-lactose is elongated. Based on the structural data of these LOS and the results obtained from immunochemical analyses, we conclude the following: 1) mAb 2C7 requires both the 15253 OS minimum structure and the N-linked fatty acids in the lipoidal moiety for expression of the epitope; 2) mAb 2C7 binds to the LOS that elongates the lactose on Hep[1] of the 15253 OS, but not the one on Hep[2]; and 3) the 2C7 epitope is expressed on gonococcal LOS despite the presence of human carbohydrate epitopes such as a lactosamine or its N-acetylgalactosaminylated (globo) form. Our study shows that the conserved epitope defined by mAb 2C7 could potentially be used as a safe site for the development of a vaccine candidate.
10594144
10594157
10594188	/ The indiscriminate allocation of funds supporting agricultural policies can lead to land misuse, with undesirable effects either on the shorter to mid-term productivity or on the environment. This article proposes a methodology, based on land rating, that can be useful to land-use planning or to decide about environmental protection measures. The methodology is applied to the land evaluation of a 260-km(2) semiarid irrigated area with salt-affected soils. The available soil map is at 1:100,000 scale and its mapping units are used for the land evaluation with the FAO framework. These data are then elaborated using the index value method. This procedure gives a map of land evaluation units and a table that rates the productive potential of these units for six crops: alfalfa, barley, maize, rice, sunflower, and wheat.
10597036	From the rice leaf cDNA library, we have cloned a cDNA encoding rice chloroplast translational elongation factor EF-Tu (tufA). The rice tufA cDNA clone contains 1678 nucleotides and codes for a 467 amino acid protein including a putative chloroplast transit peptide of 59 amino acid residues. The predicted molecular mass of the mature protein is approximately 45 kDa. This cDNA clone contains the 61 nucleotides of the 5' untranslated region (UTR) and the 213 nucleotides of 3' UTR. Amino acid sequence identity of the rice tufA with the mature chloroplast EF-Tu proteins of tobacco, pea, arabidopsis, and soybean ranges from 83% to 86%. The deduced polypeptide of the rice tufA cDNA contains GTP binding domains in its N-terminal region and chloroplast EF-Tu signature regions in the C-terminal region. The rice tufA appears to exist as a single copy gene, although its homologues of maize and oat exist as multiple copy genes. The rice tufA gene is located in chromosome 1 and is more highly expressed in the leaf than in root tissue.
10597517	We model functions that use genetic information as input and trait information as output to understand genetic linkage in complex diseases. Using simulated data from GAW11, we have applied categorical classification methods and neural network analysis. We use sharing at selected markers as input, and the classification of the sib pair (for example, affected-affected or affected-unaffected) as output. In addition, our methods include environmental risk factors as predictors of phenotype. Categorical and neural network methods each led to results consistent with findings from other methods such as the logistic regression method of Rice et al. [this issue]. Post-analysis comparison with the GAW11 answers showed that these methods are capable of detecting correct signals in a single replicate. One advantage of our methods is that they allow analysis of the entire genome at once, so that interactions among multiple trait-influencing loci may be detected. Furthermore, these methods can use a variety of sib pairs rather than affected pairs only.
10597615	High oral intake of cadmium via food or drink in a single dose by humans gives rise to vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. Concentrations of cadmium in drinks giving rise to such symptoms have been 16 mg/liter and higher corresponding to doses of 3 mg and higher. Longer term intakes of food (rice) with concentrations around 1 mg/kg corresponding to daily intakes of 600 micrograms have given rise to some less pronounced symptoms including signs of malabsorption. Reproductive and developmental effects have been observed in animal experiments at oral and other exposures. The present provisional tolerable weekly intake (PTWI) for Cd is 500 micrograms (a weekly intake of 7 micrograms/kg body wt), corresponding to a daily intake of 70 micrograms or 1 microgram per kg body wt. Recent data demonstrating renal dysfunction in humans at even lower lifelong oral exposures indicate that the PTWI needs to be lowered in the future. An estimated lowest-observed-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) for symptoms from the gastrointestinal tract in humans after intake of a single oral dose is 43 micrograms/kg body wt. If a safety factor of 3-10 is used based on LOAEL, a tolerable single dose would be 0.3-1 mg (4 to 14 micrograms/kg body wt). For longer time exposures (months-a few years) daily intakes of 200 micrograms (3 micrograms/kg body wt) may be tolerated without obvious gastrointestinal symptoms or signs. At present, there is no convincing human evidence that such doses can cause reproductive or developmental effects, but since such effects have been reported in animals, it may be advisable not to exceed a daily intake of 1 microgram/kg body wt for such potentially sensitive subsections of the population as children and women who are pregnant or lactating. Any excursions above the PTWI need to be compensated for by a corresponding period with intake below the PTWI in order for the cumulative dose to be low enough to avoid the long-term effects of cadmium on the kidney.
10598571	Comparative analysis of G- and C-banding patterns in two species of pygmy rice rats, namely Oligoryzomys microtis from Peru (Ucayali and Loreto departments) and O. flavescens from Bolivia (Tarija department) established that the diploid number of the former species is 64 (NFa = 66), whereas, in the latter, it varies between 64 and 66 (NFa = 66-68) due to the presence of 0-2 heterochromatic supernumerary or B chromosomes. The G-banding pattern of the euchromatic part of their karyotypes is similar in spite of differences in morphology of the largest and smallest autosomal pairs caused by a centromeric shift and the presence of heterochromatic arms, respectively. In addition, the total quantity of C-heterochromatin is smaller in the karyotype of O. microtis than in that of O. flavescens, resulting in differences in the number and size of chromosome pairs (including sex chromosomes) bearing C-blocks. It follows from present and previous data that these karyotypic features are stable in each of these species and thus may be used as species-specific markers.
10601654	The vast majority of genes of maize, rice, barley and wheat are contained in long gene-rich regions (collectively called the 'gene space') separated by long gene-empty regions. The gene space covers a narrow, 0.8-1.6%, GC range, possibly because of the presence of abundant transposons. Here we report that the gene space is not an exclusive property of Gramineae, because it also exists in the large genome of pea (5000 Mb). Moreover, the gene space is not just dependent upon genome size, since a gene space is found in rice (415 Mb), but not in Arabidopsis (120 Mb), nor in two other plants investigated in the present work, date palm (250 Mb) and tomato (1000 Mb).
10603179	A barley protoplast system has been established that supports replication of Rice hoja blanca tenuivirus (RHBV). Following polyethylene glycol-mediated RHBV inoculation of barley protoplasts, newly synthesized viral RNAs and proteins could be detected. Time course analyses revealed de novo synthesis of genome length viral RNA4, as well as subgenomic-sized RNA4 molecules of both polarities. Two proteins, N and NS4, encoded by viral complementary RNA3 and viral RNA4 respectively, were detected by Western immunoblot analysis. The barley protoplast system thus constitutes a promising tool for in vivo studies of the sequential steps involved in the multiplication cycle of RHBV.
10603181	The 5' and 3' terminal sequences of the plus strand of Fiji disease fijivirus (FDV) segments 2, 3, 9 and 10 possess the conserved terminal sequences, 5'AAGUUUUU.....CAGCAGAUGUC 3'. The 5' sequence is identical to that of maize rough dwarf fijivirus (MRDV) and rice black-streaked dwarf fijivirus (RBSDV), whereas the FDV 3' sequence shares the consensus, CAGCNNNNGUC, with MRDV and RBSDV. The FDV terminal sequences, and the amino acid sequences from FDV segment 9, are more closely related to those from MRDV and RBSDV than to those from oat sterile dwarf fijivirus (OSDV) and Nilaparvata lugens reovirus (NLRV; a putative Fijivirus).
10605057	The culture filtrate of a fungus isolated from decaying Picea glauca wood and tentatively identified as Oidiodendron cf. truncatum showed strong antibiotic activity against the pathogenic yeast, Candida albicans. Four new tetranorditerpenoids, oidiodendrolides A (3), B (4), and C (5) and oidiodendronic acid (7) were isolated along with three known tetranorditerpenoids, LL-Z1271 alpha (= PR1387) (1), PR1388 (2), and acrostalidic acid (6), from rice fermented by the above fungus. The structures of oidiodendrolides A (3), B (4), and C (5) and oidiodendronic acid (7) were established on the basis of spectroscopic and chemical investigations. The antifungal activity of the above tetranorditerpenoids against the pathogenic yeasts, Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans is discussed.
10605880	Various rice samples were collected in Vietnam from the Red River region, and some other parts of the country as well as from Yanco, NSW, Australia. The rice samples were analysed for 14 elements (P, K, Mg, Ca, Mn, Zn, Fe, Cu, Al, Na, Ni, As, Mo, and Cd) by ICP-AES, ICP-MS and FAAS. The analytical procedures were carefully controlled and validated using the rice flour certified material (NIES No 10). In general, the results showed that Vietnamese rice has elemental concentration ranges similar to those of the Australian and other overseas rice. However, analyses for some elements are characteristic of some Vietnamese and Australian rice samples. Thus, Vietnamese rice shows somewhat higher levels of P, K and Mg than rice samples from other countries; Mn could be a marker for the Australian rice grown in the Yanco region, and the analysed Australian samples were also very low in Cd (< 0.003 mg kg-1). An unusual distribution of Ni, present in higher concentrations in the white rice samples than in the brown ones, was observed for some Vietnamese rice samples.
10605881	Rice samples were obtained from the Red River region and some other parts of Vietnam as well as from Yanco, Australia. These samples were analysed for 14 elements (P, K, Mg, Ca, Mn, Zn, Fe, Cu, Al, Na, Ni, As, Mo and Cd) by ICP-AES, ICP-MS and FAAS as described in Part 1. This data matrix was then submitted to multivariate data analysis by principal component analysis to investigate the influences of environmental and crop cultivation variables on the elemental content of rice. Results revealed that geographical location, grain variety, seasons and soil conditions are the most likely significant factors causing changes in the elemental content between the rice samples. To assess rice quality according to its elemental content and physio-biological properties, a multicriteria decision making method (PROMETHEE) was applied. With the Vietnamese rice, the sticky rice appeared to contain somewhat higher levels of nutritionally significant elements such as P, K and Mg than the non-sticky rice. Also, rice samples grown during the wet season have better levels of nutritionally significant mineral elements than those of the dry season, but in general, the wet season seemed to provide better overall elemental and physio-biological rice quality.
10606037	The triterpene alcohol constituents of the non-saponifiable lipids of two Theaceae seed oils, sasanqua and camellia oils, and two Gramineae seed oils, wheat germ and rice bran oils, were investigated. This led to the isolation and characterization of one acyclic and eight incompletely cyclized triterpene alcohols. They are camelliol A, camelliol B, camelliol C, achilleol A, helianol, isohelianol, sasanquol, graminol A [(13R, 14R)-3,4-seco-25(10->9)abeo-8alpha,9beta,10al phapodioda-4,17,21 -trien-3-ol], and (2Z,6Z,10Z,14E,18E)-farnesyl-farnesol. Two other compounds isolated were characterized as (2Z,6Z,10E,14E)-geranylfarnesol, a sesterterpene alcohol, and phytol, a diterpene alcohol. Graminol A and (2Z,6Z,10E,14E)-geranylfarnesol are considered to be new natural products.
10606150	The effects of three regimens of cycling incubation temperatures and incubation at constant 25 degrees C on the growth of Fusarium graminearum NRRL 5883 and production of deoxynivalenol (DON) and zearalenone (ZEN) on rice were compared. The effects of low-temperature stress were also studied by incubating rice cultures at a constant 15 degrees C for 4 weeks following incubation at constant 25 degrees C for 2 weeks. Both incubation temperature and time significantly (P < or = 0.05) affected growth of F. graminearum NRRL 5883 and production of DON and ZEN. The highest amount of free ergosterol (640 microg/g culture material) that was used as a measure of fungal growth was found in cultures incubated at temperatures cycling between 15 and 30 degrees C during a 6-week period. The highest amounts of DON (1,679 microg/g culture material) and ZEN (603 microg/g culture material) were produced in cultures incubated at a constant 25 degrees C for 2 weeks prior to incubation at a constant 15 degrees C for an additional 4 weeks. Under cycling incubation temperatures, maximum amounts of DON (850 microg/g culture material) and ZEN (98 microg/g culture material) were produced in cultures incubated at temperatures cycling between 15 and 30 degrees C for 6 weeks. Overall, there was no correlation between mold growth and production of either DON or ZEN. However, DON production and ZEN production were correlated.
10606151	The effects of temperatures cycling between 5 and 20 degrees C, 10 and 25 degrees C, and 15 and 30 degrees C on the production of fumonisin B1 (FB1) and ergosterol by Fusarium moniliforme and Fusarium proliferatum on rice was studied. Temperatures were cycled at 12-h intervals by manually moving cultures from one temperature to another. Constant temperature incubation at 25 degrees C and a low temperature stress were compared with the cycling temperature incubations. Low temperature stress was achieved by incubating rice cultures at 25 degrees C for 2 weeks followed by 15 degrees C for 4 weeks. The maximum yields of FB1 were found to be 247 microg/g by F. moniliforme at temperatures that cycled between 10 and 25 degrees C after 2 weeks and 284 microg/g by F. proliferatum when the temperatures cycled between 5 and 20 degrees C after 6 weeks. Ergosterol content of the rice cultures was also monitored. Overall, the two Fusarium species showed differences in production of FB1 and ergosterol under the various temperature treatments. The most notable differences were that the temperature treatments that stimulated greatest FB1 production were different for each species: cycling temperatures between 10 and 25 degrees C for F. moniliforme and cycling temperatures between 5 and 25 degrees C for F. proliferatum. At most temperatures, F. proliferatum produced more ergosterol than F. moniliforme. Maximum production of ergosterol by F. proliferatum occurred at 6 weeks, with temperatures that cycled between 10 and 25 degrees C, whereas F. moniliforme produced maximum amounts of ergosterol at 6 weeks, with temperatures that cycled between 15 and 30 degrees C.
10606157	The effects of extrusion cooking on the stability of zearalenone (ZEN) in spiked (4.4 microg/g) food-grade corn grits were investigated using a twin screw extruder. A ground rice culture material containing a high level of ZEN was used to spike the corn grits. The extrusion variables were screw type (mixing and nonmixing), temperature (120, 140, and 160 degrees C), and moisture content (18, 22, and 26%). Both unextruded and extruded samples were analyzed for ZEN by high-performance liquid chromatography. Extrusion cooking of the corn grits resulted in significant reductions of ZEN in grits extruded with either mixing screws or nonmixing screws, but use of mixing screws was somewhat more effective (66 to 83%) overall than nonmixing screws (65 to 77%). Greater reduction of ZEN was observed at either 120 or 140 degrees C than at 160 degrees C. The moisture content of corn grits was not a significant factor affecting reduction of ZEN during extrusion with either mixing or nonmixing screws.
10606690
10607504	This study evaluated the effects of adding soluble fibre to the diet of healthy weaner pigs and weaner pigs experimentally infected with enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) in a model of post-weaning colibacillosis. Bodyweight gain, intestinal changes and proliferation of ETEC were measured 7 days following weaning. The basal diet consisted of pregelatinised rice fortified with animal protein. Addition of guar gum to this diet elevated the soluble fibre content from 1 to 6 per cent, and was associated with reduced bodyweight gains, increased large intestinal weights and fermentation, and increased proliferation of ETEC in the small intestine. The optimal levels and type of dietary fibre used for weaner pig diets require further evaluation.
10608658	Recently, we purified to homogeneity and characterized a low-molecular-weight calcium-dependent phospholipase A2 (PLA2) from developing elm seed endosperm. This represented the first purified and characterized PLA2 from a plant tissue. The full sequences of two distinct but homologous rice (Oryza sativa) cDNAs are given here. These encode mature proteins of 1 19 amino acids (PLA2-I, preceded by a 19 amino acid signal peptide) and 128 amino acids (PLA2-II. preceded by a 25 amino acid signal peptide), and were derived from four expressed sequence tag (EST) clones. Both proteins were homologous to the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the elm PLA2. They contained twelve conserved cysteine residues and sequences that are likely to represent the Ca(2+)-binding loop and active-site motif, which are characteristic of animal secretory PLA2s. A soluble PLA2s activity was purified 145 000-fold from green rice shoots. This had the same biochemical characteristics as the elm and animal secretory PLA2s. The purified rice PLA2 consisted of two proteins, with a molecular weight of 12 440 and 12 920, that had identical N-terminal amino acid sequences. This sequence was different from but homologous to the PLA2-I and PLA2-II sequences. Taken together, the results suggest that at least three different low-molecular-weight PLA2s are expressed in green rice shoots. Southern blot analysis suggested that multiple copies of such genes are likely to occur in the rice and in other plant genomes.
10608717	We have used three kinds of stresses, including the signaling compound jasmonic acid, an environmental stressor, UV irradiation, and a heavy metal salt copper chloride, to study changes in the protein patterns in rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaf tissues using two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. However, instead of using lysis buffer containing urea (O'Farrell, J. Biol. Chem. 1975, 250, 4007-4021) for extraction of proteins from rice seedling tissues, we used Tris-HCl buffer (commonly used for extraction of proteins for separation by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) for extraction of proteins and resolved these extracted proteins by the usual method of O'Farrell. Furthermore, the induction of a large number of proteins was clearly observed over controls. No spots corresponding to these induced proteins were found in the control experiment, indicating qualitative changes in protein patterns after various stress treatments. A total of 12 out of 13 proteins could be N-terminally sequenced from jasmonic acid-treated rice leaf tissues, and one protein was sequenced from UV-irradiated leaf tissues. These proteins showed high homology to pathogenesis-related (thaumatin-like protein, a PR5 class protein; a beta-1,3-glucanase precursor; an intracellular PR protein encoded by PBZ1 gene, and an antifungal protein) and cellular protectant (glutathione transferase, EC 2.5.1.18; and ascorbate peroxidase) proteins, from plants, including rice. Results presented here suggest a role for jasmonic acid in the self-defense mechanisms of rice plants.
10609645	Wild and cultivated maize, sorghum, rice, amaranth, soybean, and cassava were screened for variability in seed storage proteins. Total seed proteins, albumin (Alb-1 and Alb-2), globulin, alcohol-soluble (A1 and A2), and glutelin (G1 and G2) fractions were investigated by means of sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). The comparison was done by the obtained protein patterns and their relative amounts. Using quantitative analysis of the protein composition and the electrophoretic patterns, the relationships between total proteins and amount of individual proteins were determined. Electrophoretic patterns of extracted proteins from investigated samples showed that the main protein subunits were concentrated between 10 and 45 kDa. Variation was found in major fractions and minor bands. Electrophoretic patterns of the protein fractions are directly related to the genetic background of the protein and can be identified and used to certify the genetic makeup of wild, cultivated, or newly derived cereals and plants.
10610003	Conventional noise filtering schemes applied to magnitude magnetic resonance (MR) images tacitly assume Gauss distributed noise. Magnitude MR data, however, are Rice distributed. Not incorporating this knowledge leads inevitably to biased results, in particular when applying such filters in regions with low signal-to-noise ratio. In this work, we show how the Rice data probability distribution can be incorporated so as to construct a noise filter that is far less biased.
10610543
10611384	Accumulation of red phlobaphene pigments in sorghum grain pericarp is under the control of the Y gene. A mutable allele of Y, designated as y-cs (y-candystripe), produces a variegated pericarp phenotype. Using probes from the maize p1 gene that cross-hybridize with the sorghum Y gene, we isolated the y-cs allele containing a large insertion element. Our results show that the Y gene is a member of the MYB-transcription factor family. The insertion element, named Candystripe1 (Cs1), is present in the second intron of the Y gene and shares features of the CACTA superfamily of transposons. Cs1 is 23,018 bp in size and is bordered by 20-bp terminal inverted repeat sequences. It generated a 3-bp target site duplication upon insertion within the Y gene and excised from y-cs, leaving a 2-bp footprint in two cases analyzed. Reinsertion of the excised copy of Cs1 was identified by Southern hybridization in the genome of each of seven red pericarp revertant lines tested. Cs1 is the first active transposable element isolated from sorghum. Our analysis suggests that Cs1-homologous sequences are present in low copy number in sorghum and other grasses, including sudangrass, maize, rice, teosinte, and sugarcane. The low copy number and high transposition frequency of Cs1 imply that this transposon could prove to be an efficient gene isolation tool in sorghum.
10612657	Rice grassy stunt virus is a member of the genus Tenuivirus, is persistently transmitted by a brown planthopper, and has occurred in rice plants in South, Southeast, and East Asia [corrected]. We determined the complete nucleotide (nt) sequences of RNAs 1 (9760 nt), 2 (4069 nt), 3 (3127 nt), 4 (2909 nt), 5 (2704 nt), and 6 (2590 nt) of a southern Philippine isolate from South Cotabato and compared them with those of a northern Philippine isolate from Laguna (Toriyama et al., 1997, 1998). The numbers of nucleotides in the terminal untranslated regions and open reading frames were identical between the two isolates except for the 5' untranslated region of the complementary strand of RNA 4. Overall nucleotide differences between the two isolates were only 0.08% in RNA 1, 0.58% in RNA 4, and 0.26% in RNA 5, whereas they were 2.19% in RNA 2, 8.38% in RNA 3, and 3.63% in RNA 6. In the intergenic regions, the two isolates differed by 9.12% in RNA 2, 11.6% in RNA 3, and 6.86% in RNA 6 with multiple consecutive nucleotide deletion/insertions, whereas they differed by only 0.78% in RNA 4 and 0.34% in RNA 5. The nucleotide variation in the intergenic region of RNA 6 within the South Cotabato isolate was only 0.33%. These differences in accumulation of mutations among individual RNA segments indicate that there was genetic reassortment in the two geographical isolates; RNAs 1, 4, and 5 of the two isolates came from a common ancestor, whereas RNAs 2, 3, and 6 were from two different ancestors.
1061443	Chemical analysis showed that some foods cooked in a cast iron pot gained significantly in iron content. This was particularly so for rice and green vegetables, but not for the major root staples of Papua New Guinea. It therefore seems unlikely that a campaign to encourage the use of iron pots for cooking would significantly increase the iron content of diets in Papua New Guinea to an extent which would mitigate the high prevalence of iron deficiency.
10616266	Senile cataract contributes to 75% of blindness in India and there is a growing backlog of cataract cases needing surgery. The present study seeks clues to the etiology of senile cataract, so that strategies to prevent or even delay cataract formation could be planned. Using a community based case-control design, 258 cases & 308 controls from one centre and 301 cases & 591 controls from another were studied. The subjects were from rural areas and were aged 40-60 years. Logistic regression analysis technique was employed to study the associations between senile cataract and various variables. Systolic blood pressure, duration of exposure to sunlight per day were associated with senile cataract in both the centres (OR = 1.4 & 1.5 for systolic BP and 1.6 & 1.4 for exposure to sunlight). Utilization of rice gruel (OR = 0.5), duration of exposure to fire & dust per day (OR = 1.8), family history of cataract (OR = 5.0), use of cheap cooking fuels (OR = 1.8), increased height (OR = 0.7) and increased number of hours of work per day (OR = 0.7) were other variables that showed significant association in either of the centres. Senile cataract appears to have a multi factorial etiology. Though the study provided some clues to the etiology of senile cataract, further studies are needed to know the specific role of these factors in the causation of cataract, so that any preventive or control measures could be initiated in the community. Till such time, we have to fall back on the available surgical approach in control of senile cataract.
10616648	Iodine content of rice (42) and drinking water (108) from a goitre-endemic belt of Assam, a sub-Himalayan zone of India, was evaluated. Iodine content of staple food (rice) and drinking water was found to be poor. Mean iodine content of rice was found to be 11.8 +/- 7.3 micrograms/100g. Lower level of iodine was also observed in drinking water samples (mean of 1.52 +/- 0.48 micrograms/l).
10616655	The objective of this study was to analyze the chemical and nutritional composition of two flours obtained from food subproducts (multimixtures): MM1 based on rice bran and MM2 based on wheat bran. This was done by identifying their macronutrients and performing analyses to determine characteristics such as rancidity, alcohol-soluble acidity, pH and presence of fungi (molds and yeasts) that could affect their quality. Our results show that MM1 has a greater content of nutrients such as lipids, insoluble fibers, calcium, and iron, while MM2 has a higher content of glycids and phosphorus. However, protein contents were similar in both samples. A high index of alcohol-soluble acidity was observed in MM1, and rancidity and high acidity were detected in both samples. No sign of dirtiness was found and the level of molds and yeasts encountered in both flours complies with the legal standards in effect in the country. We conclude that although the multimixtures present good levels of nutrients, they are highly susceptible to decomposition.
10617595	Peptide:N-glycanase (PNGase; EC 3.5.1.52) activity was detected in dormant rice seeds (Oryza sativa) and the imbibed rice grains. Time-course studies revealed that the enzyme activity remained almost constant until about 30 h after imbibition in both of endosperm- and embryo tissue-containing areas, and started to increase only in growing germ part, reached a peak at about 3-day stage, followed by a gradual decrease concomitant with a sharp increase in the coleoptile. The specific activity increased about 6-fold at about 3-day stage. PNGase was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from the extracts of germinated rice seeds at 24 h, and the apparent molecular weight of the purified enzyme, estimated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), was about 80,000. The purified enzyme was designated PNGase Os to denote its origin. The N-terminal sequence of the 10 residues was determined to be SYNVASVAGL. The purified PNGase Os in SDS-PAGE appeared as a rather broad band, consistent with the presence of multiple glycoforms as indicated by chromatographic behavior on a Sephadex G-75 column. PNGase expressed in coleoptile under anoxia condition was also purified, and both of the purified enzymes were found to exhibit very similar, if not identical, electrophoretic mobility in SDS-PAGE. PNGase Os exhibited a broad pH-activity profile with an optimum of 4-5 and, interestingly, was significantly inactivated by K(+) and Na(+) at near the physiological concentration, 100 mM. These results are discussed in relation to other work.
10617960
10618112	A standardized reference method for dermatophyte in vitro susceptibility testing is lacking. In a previous study, Norris et al. (H. A. Norris, B. E. Elewski, and M. A. Ghannoum, J. Am. Acad. Dermatol. 40(6, part 2):S9-S13) established the optimal medium and other growth variables. However, the earlier study did not address two issues: (i) selection of an optimal medium for conidial formation by dermatophytes and (ii) validation of the method with a large number of dermatophytes. The present study addresses these two points. To select which agar medium best supported conidial growth, representative isolates of dermatophytes were grown on different agars. Preliminary experiments showed that only oatmeal cereal agar supported the production of conidia by Trichophyton rubrum. We tested the abilities of 251 T. rubrum isolates to form conidia using three different cereal agars and potato dextrose agar. Overall, oatmeal cereal and rice agar media were comparable in their abilities to support T. rubrum conidial growth. Next, we used the oatmeal cereal agar for conidial formation along with the optimal conditions for dermatophyte susceptibility testing proposed by Norris et al. and determined the antifungal susceptibilities of 217 dermatophytes to fluconazole, griseofulvin, itraconazole, and terbinafine. Relative to the other agents tested, terbinafine possessed the highest antifungal activity against all of the dermatophytes. The mean +/- standard error of the mean MICs of fluconazole, itraconazole, terbinafine, and griseofulvin were 2.07 +/- 0.29, 0.13 +/- 0.01, 0.002 +/- 0.0003, and 0.71 +/- 0.05 microgram/ml, respectively. This study is the first step in the identification of optimal conditions that could be used for the standardization of the antifungal susceptibility testing method for dermatophytes. Inter- and intralaboratory agreement as well as clinical correlations need to be established.
10618494	The plant homologue of Bax Inhibitor-1, a gene described to suppress the cell death induced by Bax gene expression in yeast, was isolated from Oryza sativa L. (rice) and Arabidopsis. The amino acid sequence of the predicted protein was well conserved in both animal and plant (45% in amino acids) and contained six or seven membrane-spanning segments. Northern blot analysis showed that OsBI-1 transcripts were present in all tissues examined. The OsBI-1 cDNA suppressed cell death induced by mammalian Bax in yeast, suggesting functional conservation of this BI-1 homologue in the plant kingdom.
10620721	Turnover of glucose and acetate in the presence of active reduction of nitrate, ferric iron and sulfate was investigated in anoxic rice field soil by using [U-(14)C]glucose and [2-(14)C]acetate. The turnover of glucose was not much affected by addition of ferrihydrite or sulfate, but was partially inhibited (60%) by addition of nitrate. Nitrate addition also strongly reduced acetate production from glucose while ferrihydrite and sulfate addition did not. These results demonstrate that ferric iron and sulfate reducers did not outcompete fermenting bacteria for glucose at endogenous concentrations. Nitrate reducers may have done so, but glucose fermentation may also have been inhibited by accumulation of toxic denitrification intermediates (nitrite, NO, N(2)O). Addition of nitrate resulted in complete inhibition of CH(4) production from [U-(14)C]glucose and [2-(14)C]acetate. However, addition of ferrihydrite or sulfate decreased the production of (14)CH(4) from [U-(14)C]glucose by only 70 and 65%, respectively. None of the electron acceptors significantly increased the production of (14)CO(2) from [U-(14)C]glucose, but all increased the production of (14)CO(2) from [2-(14)C]acetate. Uptake of acetate was faster in the presence of either nitrate, ferrihydrite or sulfate than in the unamended control. Addition of ferrihydrite and sulfate reduced (14)CH(4) production from [2-(14)C]acetate by 83 and 92%, respectively. Chloroform completely inhibited the methanogenic consumption of acetate. It also inhibited the oxidation of acetate, completely in the presence of sulfate, but not in the presence of nitrate or ferrihydrite. Our results show that, besides the possible toxic effect of products of nitrate reduction (NO, NO(2)(-) and N(2)O) on methanogens, nitrate reducers, ferric iron reducers and sulfate reducers were active enough to outcompete methanogens for acetate and channeling the flow of electrons away from CH(4) towards CO(2) production.
10620722	Rice field soils turn anoxic upon flooding. The complete mineralization of organic matter, e.g. cellulose, to gaseous products is then accomplished by the sequential reduction of nitrate, ferric iron, sulfate and finally by methanogenesis. Therefore, the anaerobic turnover of [U-(14)C]cellulose was investigated in fresh, non-methanogenic and in preincubated, methanogenic slurries of Italian rice field soil. In anoxic soil slurries freshly prepared from air-dried soil [U-(14)C]cellulose was converted to (14)CO(2) and (14)CH(4) in a ratio of 3:1. In methanogenic soil slurries, on the other hand, which had been preincubated for 45 days under anaerobic conditions, [U-(14)C]cellulose was converted to (14)CO(2) and (14)CH(4) in the ratio of 1:1. The turnover times (7-14 days) of cellulose degradation were not significantly different (P0.05) in fresh and methanogenic soil. Chloroform addition abolished CH(4) production, but only slightly (30%) inhibited cellulose degradation in both fresh and methanogenic soil. Under both soil conditions, [(14)C]acetate was the only labeled intermediate detected. A maximum of 24% of the applied radioactivity was transiently accumulated as [(14)C]acetate in both fresh and methanogenic soil slurries. However, when methanogenesis was inhibited by chloroform, 46% and 66% of the applied radioactivity were recovered as [(14)C]acetate in fresh and methanogenic soil, respectively. Only non-radioactive propionate accumulated during the incubation with [U-(14)C]cellulose, especially in the presence of chloroform, indicating that propionate was produced from substrates other than cellulose.
10624137	Determine the impact of dietary risk factors on patterns of infection by heat labile toxin-producing Escherichia coli (LT-ETEC). Ninety-eight infants were followed from birth for one year in Guadalajara, Mexico, beginning in august of 1986. Stool and breast milk samples were collected weekly from infants and their mothers, respectively. Mothers were also interviewed on a weekly basis regarding the health of the infants. Parametric hazard models were fit to durations of different LT-ETEC disease states determined through the analysis of stools. The child's consumption of supplemental foods and liquids as well as specific levels of LT-ETEC-specific breast milk antibodies were included in each model as time-varying covariates. The hazard of LT-ETEC asymptomatic infection increased 400 percent among children who received oats gruel (hazard rate = 4.01; 95% CI 2.77-5.24). The duration of infection was reduced if the child had had a previous LT-ETEC diarrheal episode (2.12; 95% CI 1.74-2.49) but was prolonged if the child consumed herbal teas (0.53; 95% CI 0.27-0.7). Herbal teas and high LT-ETEC-specific breast milk antibody levels each reduced the hazard of symptomatic infection by ninety percent. Symptomatic episodes became asymptomatic more rapidly if a child was given rice water. Specific weaning foods increase the risk of infection. Breastmilk antibodies and liquid infusions reduce diarrheal disease and infection duration.
10625676	Plant cells contain a complete oxidative pentose phosphate pathway in the chloroplasts, but an incomplete pathway was proposed to be present in the cytosol, with cytosolic (cyt) isoforms of ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase (RPEase) and other non-oxidative branch enzymes being undetectable. Here we present for the first time the identification, cloning, and properties of a cyt-RPEase in rice (Oryza sativa) and presence of its homologues in other plant species. Recombinant cyt-RPEase is a homodimer of 24.3-kDa subunits such as in the case of the animal and yeast enzymes, whereas the chloroplast (chl) RPEase is a hexamer. Cytosolic and chloroplastic RPEases cannot be separated by anion exchange chromatography. Since plant cyt-RPEase is more closely related in its primary structure to homologous enzymes in animal and yeast cells than to the chloroplast RPEase, the plant nuclear genes coding for cytosolic and chloroplast RPEases were most likely derived from eubacteria and cyanobacteria, respectively. Accumulation of cyt-RPEase-mRNA and protein is high in root cells, lacking chl-RPEase, and lower in green tissue. These and other observations support the view that green and non-green plant cells possess a complete oxidative pentose phosphate pathway in the cytosol.
10625931	This review first concentrates on chemical and biochemical aspects of myo-inositol derivatives, as major components of rice bran, in order to give some help for understanding the roles of the biologically important phosphates. In addition, many biologically active compounds which include inositols and inositol derivatives have also been introduced for a better understanding of cyclitol chemistry.
10625932	The oxidative breakdown of membrane polyunsaturated fatty acids is known to be accompanied by the formation of a complex mixture of lipid hydroperoxides and secondary products. These compounds are highly reactive and are capable of rapid reaction with cellular nucleophiles such as phospholipids and proteins; we found that these reaction products are candidates as important biomarkers to evaluate the antioxidative activity of dietary antioxidants. We have been involved in developing immuno-chemical detection methods for oxidative stress by the application of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. From our hypothesis that endogenous antioxidants in plants must play an important role in antioxidative defense systems against oxidative stress, an intensive search for novel natural antioxidants has been carried out on numerous plant materials, including those used as foods, and we have isolated and identified a number of lipid-soluble and water-soluble dietary antioxidants from crop seeds, sesame seeds and some spices. In this paper, we review the recent progress of research on functions of rice polyphenols.
10625933	Although scientific evidence is relatively limited, rice bran oil (RBO) is tenaciously believed to be a healthy vegetable oil in Asian countries. It exerts hypocholesterolemic activity in relation to more commonly used vegetable oils and is characterized by a relatively high content of non-fatty acid components, some of which are known to have beneficial health effects. Components specific for RBO such as gamma-oryzanol and tocotrienols could participate in its hypocholesterolemic effects. In addition, blending RBO with safflower oil, but not with sunflower oil, may magnify the hypocholesterolemic efficacy. This observation is of particular interest with regard to dietary intervention with RBO. The possible mechanism underlying this effect may at least in part be related to the specific triglyceride structure of safflower oil, differing from that of sunflower oil.
10625934	This abstract summarizes material presented at the "First International Symposium on Disease Prevention by IP6 and other Rice Components "held in Kyoto, Japan in June, 1998. The presentation deals primarily with studies of chemoprevention of pulmonary carcinogenesis by myo-inositol. This compound is largely formed by the dephosphorylation of inositol hexaphosphate (IP6, phytate) within the gastrointestinal tract in humans and animals. myo-Inositol is one of a relatively few compounds that has an inhibitory effect on carcinogenesis of the lung in experimental animals when administered during the post-initiation period. It prevents pulmonary adenoma formation in A/J mice when fed in the diet subsequent to administrations of benzo[a]pyrene or the tobacco specific carcinogen 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) to the mice. A second compound, dexamethasone, also prevents pulmonary neoplasia under the same conditions. Experiments in which both myo-inositol and dexamethasone were administered together in the diet showed an additive inhibitory effect. The significance and utility of the chemopreventive properties of these agents remains to be determined.
10625954	We suggest that chemical raw materials can best be obtained from natural resources. Ferulic acid is easily prepared in large quantities from rice bran pitch, a blackish brown waste oil with high viscosity, discharged in the process of the rice bran oil production. As an application of ferulic acid, potential cancer chemopreventive agents could be synthesized using organic synthetic methods.
10625957	Effects of ferulic acid (FA) known as a major constituent of rice bran or germ on 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (4NQO)-induced oral carcinogenesis were examined in 4 groups of male rats. The incidences of tongue carcinomas and preneoplastic lesions (severe dysplasia) in rats of the group given FA in the diet at a dose of 500 ppm after exposure to 4NQO for 5 weeks in drinking water at a dose of 20 ppm, was significantly lower on termination of the experiment (32 weeks) in the group with the carcinogen alone (P < 0.005 and P < 0.001 respectively). The results suggest chemopreventive activity for this phenolic compound on oral cancer. Modifying effects of rice germ on azoxymethane (AOM)-induced formation of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) were also examined, in 8 groups of male F344 rats. Numbers of ACF/colon, ACF/cm2 and aberrant crypts/colon in the group treated with AOM (15 mg/kg s.c. once a week for 3 weeks) and gamma-amino butylic acid (GABA)-enriched defatted rice germ (2.5% in diet) or the group with AOM and rice germ (2.5% in diet) were smaller than those of the group with AOM alone (P < 0.005). Exposure to defatted rice germ or rice germ during the initiation phase or the post-initiation phase also decreased incidences of AOM-induced large bowel neoplasms (P < 0.05). These results suggest chemopreventive potential for rice germ on colonic neoplasia.
10628294	A method using particle bombardment and beta-glucuronidase (GUS) assay was applied to rice callus for detecting the excision of the maize Ds element trans-activated by the Ac transposase source. Excision of Ds biolistically introduced into rice callus resulted in the restoration of the interrupted gus gene expression, allowing visual detection of trans-activation two days after bombardment. Only the transgenic callus lines expressing the Ac transposase gene and the wild-type callus co-transformed with Ac and Ds revealed GUS activity. Frequency of excision, estimated based on the relative GUS activity, ranged from 0.3% to 2.2%. Callus lines showing different levels of Ac transcripts revealed varying excision frequencies. At the later stages of callus growth after selection for the Ac/Ds transformed lines, excision events were detected by GUS assay and confirmed by PCR and sequence analyses of the excision sites in individual colonies. GUS activity was also demonstrated in the primary regenerants from the Ac/Ds-transformed callus colonies. The method described in this study may be used as an approach for rapid detection of excision events and assessment of various factors limiting Ac/Ds activity in rice cells.
10629279	Acute and chronic toxicity tests were conducted on the herbicide benzofenap (Taipan 300) using two Australian freshwater invertebrates. The commercial formulation of benzofenap and a blank formulation containing only the adjuvants of Taipan 300 were tested against final instar larvae of the midge Chironomus tepperi and adults of the aquatic snail Isidorella newcombi. In 24-h acute bioassays the midge larvae did not show significant mortality at a nominal concentration of 1.2 mg/L active ingredient (AI), double the maximum notional concentration expected in rice fields after application of Taipan 300 at the permit rate of 2 L/ha. No significant snail mortality was recorded in acute bioassays (24-h exposure, 48-h recovery) at nominal concentrations up to 76 mg/L AI, which is over 120 times the maximum notional field concentration. In chronic assays, the pupation and emergence of C. tepperi was monitored after a 4-h pulse exposure of final instar larvae to Taipan 300 (nominal concentrations 0.001 to 0.1 mg/L AI) and adjuvant-only (0.1 mg/L equivalent) treatments. No statistically significant effects were observed, although emergence appeared to be delayed by higher benzofenap concentrations and by the adjuvant-only treatment. During snail bioassays, egg and feces production were monitored for 21 days after 24-h exposure to Taipan 300 (nominal concentrations 1.2 mg/L to 60 mg/L AI) and adjuvant-only treatments (60 mg/L equivalent). No significant chronic effects were proven against I. newcombi, despite a decline in egg mass production following exposure to all treatments and a reduction in the total numbers of eggs produced at the highest nominal concentrations tested (60 mg/L AI and adjuvant-only treatments). Similarly, feces production by snail pairs exposed to the majority of treatments declined, but these differences were not statistically significant. It is concluded that Taipan 300 does not represent a significant risk to mature C. tepperi larvae or adult I. newcombi in downstream environments when applied to rice fields at the permit rate of 2 L/ha.
10630372	Clinical cases of type-1 hypersensitive reaction to rice (Oryza sativa) have been reported in western countries as well as in Japan. Among rice proteins, 14-16 kD globulin proteins encoded by multiple gene family have been identified as major rice allergens. In this study, a rice cDNA library was constructed using lambda UniZap vector and screened with a rat anti-16 kD globulin protein polyclonal antibody in order to isolate Korean rice allergenic cDNA clones. Five independent cDNA clones, termed RAK1-5, were obtained after second rounds of plaque assay and immunoblot analysis. These clones encoded 13-19 kD recombinant proteins upon IPTG induction, which were identified by the polyclonal antibody in immunoblot analysis. DNA sequencing analysis showed that RAK1-4 have 99% sequence homology with RA5b, and RAK5 is closely related with RA14c. This result indicated that RA5b gene is widely distributed in our cDNA library among other possible rice allergenic genes, and more study is needed to isolate heterogeneous or novel rice allergen genes.
10630442	Addition of a medication to the World Health Organization protocol for treatment of acute diarrhea in children is controversial. In this trial, the clinical efficacy of a medication (Lactol Fort sachets; Laboratoire du Lactol du Docteur Boucard, Houdan France) containing lyophilized heat-killed Lactobacillus acidophilus LB was assessed as an adjunct to oral rehydration therapy. Children aged 3 to 24 months with acute diarrhea and mild or moderate dehydration were enrolled in the study. Children received oral rehydration therapy for the first 4 hours. After this first rehydration phase, undiluted milk formula or breast milk was fed alternately with oral rehydration solution. Children were fed rice gruel as tolerated. They received either one sachet containing 10 billion of lyophilized heat-killed L. acidophilus LB or placebo at admission and at 12-hour intervals for five doses. Seventy-three children (37 L. acidophilus LB, 36 placebo) were enrolled, of whom 40 (17 L. acidophilus LB, 23 placebo) received an antibiotic before inclusion. Rotavirus was identified in approximately 50% of the children in each group. After 24 hours of treatment, the number of rotavirus-positive children with watery stools was significantly lower (p = 0.012) in the L. acidophilus LB group. Mean duration of diarrhea was decreased (p = 0.034) with L. acidophilus LB (43.4 hours) versus placebo (57.0 hours). This decreased duration was particularly marked in children with no antibiotic therapy before inclusion (31.1 hours): 42.9 hours for the L. acidophilus LB group versus 74.0 hours for the placebo group (p = 0.016). Addition of L. acidophilus LB to oral rehydration therapy was effective in the treatment of children with acute diarrhea by decreasing the duration of diarrhea.
10631249	In many plants, cysteine proteinases play essential roles in a variety of developmental and physiological processes. In rice (Oryza sativa), REP-1 is a primary cysteine proteinase responsible for the digestion of seed storage proteins to provide nutrients to support the growth of young seedlings. In the present study, the gene encoding REP-1 was isolated, characterized, and designated as OsEP3A. An OsEP3A-specific DNA probe was used to study the effect of various factors on the expression of OsEP3A in germinating seeds and vegetative tissues of rice. The expression of OsEP3A is hormonally regulated in germinating seeds, spatially and temporally regulated in vegetative tissues, and nitrogen-regulated in suspension-cultured cells. The OsEP3A promoter was linked to the coding sequence of the reporter gene, gusA, which encodes beta-glucuronidase (GUS), and the chimeric gene was introduced into the rice genome. The OsEP3A promoter is sufficient to confer nitrogen regulation of GUS expression in suspension-cultured cells. Histochemical studies also indicate that the OsEP3A promoter is sufficient to confer the hormonal regulation of GUS expression in germinating seeds. These studies demonstrate that in rice the REP-1 protease encoded by OsEP3A may play a role in various physiological responses and processes, and that multiple mechanisms regulate the expression of OsEP3A.
10631269	Studies of waxy mutations in wheat and other cereals have shown that null mutations in genes encoding granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI) result in amylose-free starch in endosperm and pollen grains, whereas starch in other tissues may contain amylose. We have isolated a cDNA from waxy wheat that encodes GBSSII, which is thought to be responsible for the elongation of amylose chains in non-storage tissues. The deduced amino acid sequences of wheat GBSSI and GBSSII were almost 66% identical, while those of wheat GBSSII and potato GBSSI were 72% identical. GBSSII was expressed in leaf, culm, and pericarp tissue, but transcripts were not detected in endosperm tissue. In contrast, GBSSI expression was high in endosperm tissue. The expression of GBSSII mRNA in pericarp tissue was similar at the midpoints of the day and night periods. The GBSSII genes were mapped to chromosomes 2AL, 2B, and 2D, whereas GBSSI genes are located on group 7 chromosomes. Gel-blot analysis indicated that genes related to GBSSII also occur in barley, rice, and maize. The possible role of GBSSII in starch synthesis is discussed.
10632579	Molecular analyses of a rice (Oryza sativa L.) transgene locus introduced using biolistic techniques revealed the presence of multiple copies of rearranged fragments, as well as an intact copy of the supplied constructs. Both the gene of interest (35S-Btt cryIIIA) and the selectable marker used (Ubi1-bar) were methylated and silenced. Additionally, vector sequences were present in great abundance and were also highly methylated, indicating that the entire transgene insert was marked for methylation. The rearrangement of input DNA resulted in interspersion of plasmid backbone regions with the gene of interest. Permutation of segments encoding the gene of interest and the selectable marker was also detected, perhaps explaining why sequences introduced on separate plasmids are frequently found to be inserted at the same locus. The 35S promoter contained several hotspots for fragmentation. These observations strongly support the concept that intrusive DNA is recognized by host surveillance systems and that transgene loci with anomalous structural organization are subjected to inactivation by processes such as methylation.
10634080	To compare the clinical and epidemiological characteristics of cholera patients and patients with diarrhea of different etiology (controls), treated at Mexican Institute of Social Security medical units in northeast Mexico City, from 1995 to 1998. Cross-sectional analytical study design. Data were collected using the official form "Immediate Notification of Cholera Cases" that each medical unit reports to the Coordination of Community Health. Statistical analysis consisted of comparisons of means and proportions between both groups. In 4,952 notifications, there were 588 cholera cases and 4,364 controls. The age range of cases was 39 to 51 years and 54% were females. During 1995 and 1997 (years with higher proportion of cases) patients with cholera had a greater frequency of watery evacuations than controls (97% vs. 73%), "rice water" appearance (31% vs. 13%), vomiting (72% vs. 63%), muscular spasms (49% vs. 26%), dehydration (83% vs. 71%), hypovolemic shock (10% vs. 1%) and death (0.85% vs. 0.25%). These differences were statistically significant. Cholera presents a biannual cyclic behavior; greater frequencies are associated with greater severity and complications. It is necessary to increase epidemiologic surveillance and medical efforts for opportune diagnosis and treatment.
10634784	Rice (Oryza sativa), a major staple food, is usually milled to remove the oil-rich aleurone layer that turns rancid upon storage, especially in tropical areas. The remaining edible part of rice grains, the endosperm, lacks several essential nutrients, such as provitamin A. Thus, predominant rice consumption promotes vitamin A deficiency, a serious public health problem in at least 26 countries, including highly populated areas of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Recombinant DNA technology was used to improve its nutritional value in this respect. A combination of transgenes enabled biosynthesis of provitamin A in the endosperm.
10635550	An alcohol-soluble storage protein, a 16.6-kDa prolamin found in rice seeds, was purified from both the total protein body and purified type I protein body fractions. The partial amino acid sequences of three tryptic peptides generated from the purified polypeptide were analyzed. A part of the 16.6-kDa prolamin cDNA was amplified from developing seed mRNA by the reverse transcribed polymerase chain reaction using an oligo (dT) primer and a primer which was synthesized based on the partial amino acid sequence. The amplified product was used to isolate the full-length cDNA clone (lambda RP16) from a developing seed cDNA library. The cDNA has an open reading frame encoding a hydrophobic polypeptide of 149 amino acids. The polypeptide was rich in glutamine (20.0%), cysteine (10.0%), and methionine (6.9%). The cysteine content was higher than those of most other rice storage proteins. Messenger RNA of the 16.6-kDa prolamin was detected in seeds, but not in other aerial tissues.
10636825	In many wetland species, root aerenchyma is produced by the predictable collapse of root cortex cells, indicating a programmed cell death (PCD). The objective of this study was to characterize the cellular changes that accompany this PCD in the marsh species Sagittaria lancifolia. Structural changes in membranes and organelles were examined during development of root cortex cells to compare with previous examples of PCD. The organization of cortical microtubule (CMT) arrays in root cells from S. lancifolia was also evaluated as a possible predictor of cell lysis. Nuclear fragmentation and condensation were the earliest changes observed in cells undergoing lysis. Breakdown of the tonoplast and other organelles and disruption of the plasma membrane followed. After loss of cytoplasm, cells collapsed to form gas spaces. These results were compared to collapse of root cortical cells of Zea mays and Oryza sativa during aerenchyma development. Changes in the appearance of the cytoplasm of all three species were similar at later stages of aerenchyma development. The relative timing of disintegration of the tonoplast and middle lamella appeared to differ among the three species. Changes in the organization of CMT arrays did not appear to be a predictor of PCD in S. lancifolia. Aerenchyma production in plants involves a type of PCD that is morphologically distinct from PCD described from many animals.
10637066	A lipoprotein fraction extracted from rice bran (RBF) has been proved to be nontoxic to normal cells and to possess the ability to derange energy metabolism and induce apoptosis in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells. This study is designed to investigate the therapeutic effects of RBF as an antitumor substance on endometrial adenocarcinoma cells (Sawano). Cultured human endometrial adenocarcinoma cells were treated with medium only (untreated), DMSO, or RBF at 100, 200, and 300 microg/ml. Mitotic indexes were counted by Giemsa stain and apoptotic index by fluorescent TUNEL stain for confocal laser scanning microscopy. DNA fragments were examined by agarose gel electrophoresis. Characteristic apoptotic morphology was observed in Giemsa-stained cells and further confirmed by confocal laser scanning microscopy in RBF-treated cells. Growth of Sawano cells was inhibited by RBF in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Apoptotic indexes (AI) showed an increasing tendency, and mitotic indexes (MI) showed a downward tendency. In 300 microg/ml RBF-treated Sawano cells, AI even reached 41.62 +/- 2. 23% and MI decreased to 0.79 +/- 0.08% at 96 h. Both showed significant differences from to controls and other RBF-treated groups. DNA agarose electrophoresis revealed DNA fragmentation in a ladder pattern. RBF can induce apoptosis of cultured human endometrial adenocarcinoma cells (Sawano) and inhibit its cell proliferation as an antitumor substance.
10640665	The anaerobic degradation of different fractions of rice straw in anoxic paddy soil was investigated. Rice straw was divided up into stem, leaf sheath and leaf blade. The different straw fractions were mixed with paddy soil and incubated under anoxic conditions. Fermentation of straw components started immediately and resulted in transient accumulation of acetate, propionate, butyrate, isobutyrate, valerate, isovalerate and caproate with much higher concentrations in the presence than in the absence of straw. Also some unidentified compounds with UV absorption could be detected. The maximum concentrations of these compounds were different when using different straw fractions, suggesting differences in the degradation pathway of these straw fractions during the early phase of incubation, i.e. with Fe(III) and sulfate serving as oxidants. When concentrations of the intermediates decreased to background values, CH(4) production started. Rates of CH(4)unamended soil. During the methanogenic phase, the percentage contribution of fermentation products to CH(4) production was determined by inhibition with 2-bromoethanesulfonate (BES). Acetate (48-83%) and propionate (18-28%) were found to be the main intermediates of the carbon flow to CH(4), irrespective of the fraction of the rice straw or its absence. Mass balance calculations showed that 84-89% of CH(4) was formed via acetate in the various incubations. Radiotracer experiments showed that 11-27% of CH(4) was formed from H(2)/CO(2), thus confirming that acetate contributed 73-89% to methanogenesis. Our results show that the addition of rice straw and the fraction of the straw affected the fermentation pattern only in the early phase of degradation, but had no effect on the degradation pathway during the later methanogenic phase.
10645434	New cloning technologies and more efficient DNA sequencing now permit comprehensive structural studies of complex eukaryotic genomes. Previous global investigations of genome organisation in plants had shown that abundant repetitive DNAs were intermixed with genes. However, the nature of the major repeats, their possible biological roles, their origins, and their precise patterns of organisation were not clearly defined. My laboratory has used large clones derived from homologous regions of the maize, sorghum and rice genomes to investigate the nature, functional properties and evolution of grass genome organisation. Unexpectedly simple patterns of genome composition and arrangement have been seen, and these appear to be similar in different grasses. Our detailed studies of the maize genome indicate that short (2-20 kb) blocks of gene-containing DNA alternate with large (2-200 kb) blocks of intermixed middle and highly repetitive DNAs. Most of the highly repetitive sequences, and many of the middle repetitive DNAs, are retrotransposons that have inserted within each other. These repetitive DNAs are usually methylated and mostly inactive, but they are homologous to transcripts found in many different tissues. The unmethylated DNA is composed primarily of genes interspersed with lower-copy-number retroelements and inverted-repeat transposable elements. Gene order and sequence are highly conserved, but the mobile DNAs between genes appear to be different due to their rapid evolution and their variable presence or locations in different grasses.
10645909	Vanadium pentoxide (V(2)O(5)) is a cause of occupational asthma and bronchitis. We previously reported that intratracheal instillation of rats with V(2)O(5) causes fibrosis of the lung parenchyma (J. C. Bonner, P. M. Lindroos, A. B. Rice, C. R. Moomaw, and D. L. Morgan. Am. J. Physiol. Lung Cell. Mol. Physiol. 274: L72-L80, 1998). In this report, we show that intratracheal instillation of V(2)O(5) induces airway remodeling similar to that observed in individuals with asthma. These changes include airway smooth muscle cell thickening, mucous cell metaplasia, and airway fibrosis. The transient appearance of peribronchiolar myofibroblasts, which were desmin and vimentin positive, coincided with a twofold increase in the thickness of the airway smooth muscle layer at day 6 after instillation and preceded the development of airway fibrosis by day 15. The number of nuclear profiles within the smooth muscle layer also increased twofold after V(2)O(5) instillation, suggesting that hyperplasia accounted for thickening of the smooth muscle layer. The majority of cells incorporating bromodeoxyuridine at day 3 were located in the connective tissue surrounding the airway smooth muscle wall that was positive for vimentin and desmin. These data suggest that myofibroblasts are the principal proliferating cell type that contributes to the progression of airway fibrosis after V(2)O(5) injury.
10646323	To study of the dietary practices and beliefs of patients suffering from chronic liver disease. Two private tertcary care hospitals. Fifty patients presenting to the Gastroenterology Clinics at the Aga Khan University Hospital and Baqai Hospital, with compensated liver disease and no other co-morbid condition which required dietary modifications, were enrolled in the study. Patients were interviewed regarding their current dietary practices using an open-ended questionnaire. The mean age of the patients was 48 years and the majority were in relatively poor nutritional status. Four had BMI's < 18; 58% had Hb < 12 g/dl and 36% had albumin levels < 3 gm/dl. The percentage of patients avoiding various foods is as follows: meats 72%, fats and oils 64%, salt 42%, spices 34%, milk and milk products 28%, rice 20%. The most commonly cited reason for avoiding a given food was the advice of the family doctor, followed by advice by gastroenterologists, family and friends. Concepts from alternative medicine and continuation of dietary restrictions imposed during a decompensated phase also influenced intake. Compromised nutritional status is a poor predictor of clinical outcome in liver disease therefore it is important that gastroenterologists be proactive regarding nutritional counseling and both patients and their primary care physicians understand the importance of not imposing unnecessary restrictions on dietary intake.
10646971	We have used RT PCR and 3'RACE to identify diverse serine proteinase genes expressed in the midguts of the rice yellow stem borer (Scirpophaga incertulas) and Asian corn borer (Helicoverpa armigera). The RT-PCR primers encoded the conserved regions around the active site histidine57 and serine195 of Drosophila melanogaster alpha trypsin, including aspartate189 of the specificity pocket. These primers amplified three transcripts (SiP1-3) from midguts of S. incertulas, and two transcripts (HaP1-2) from midguts of H. armigera. The five RT PCR products were sequenced to permit design of gene-specific forward primers for use with anchored oligo dT primers in 3'RACE. Sequencing of the 3'RACE products indicated that SiP1, SiP2 and HaP1 encoded trypsin-like serine proteinases, while HaP2 encoded a chymotrypsin-like serine proteinases. The SiP3 transcript proved to be an abundant 960 nt mRNA encoding a trypsin-like protein in which the active site serine195 was replaced by aspartate. The possible functions of this unusual protein are discussed.
10647514	The isolation, chemical characterization and biological activity of two phytotoxic metabolites of Phomopsis helianthi Munt-Cvet et al. is reported. These compounds were identified by spectroscopic methods (UV, IR, 1H and 13C NMR, and MS) as trans-4,6-dihydroxymellein (trans-3-methyl-4,6,8-trihydroxy-3,4-dihyroisocoumarin) and cis-4,6-dihydroxymellein (cis-3-methyl-4,6,8-trihydroxy-3,4-dihydroisocoumarin). This is the first report of the isolation of trans-4,6-dihydroxymellein from fungal cultures and of the production of cis- and trans-4,6-dihydroxymelleins by P. helianthi. Rice was found to be a good substrate for the production of the dihydroxymelleins. Culture extracts of some Italian and French strains of P. helianthi showed different degrees of phytotoxicity towards sunflower leaves and seedlings. The minimum effective doses of trans- and cis-4,6-dihydroxymelleins with different bioassays were 76 and 135 microg per spot (leaf puncture bioassay), 3 and 5 micromol g(-1) fresh tissue (absorption by leaf cutting) and 5 and 2 micromol g(-1) fresh tissue (absorption by cut seedlings), respectively. These compounds may contribute to the severity of the sunflower disease caused by P. helianthi.
10648822	Plant dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR), which re-reduces oxidized ascorbate to maintain an appropriate level of ascorbate, is very important, but no gene or cDNA for plant DHAR has been cloned yet. Here, we describe a cDNA for a rice glutathione-dependent DHAR (designated DHAR1). A recombinant Dhar1p produced in Escherichia coli was functional. The expression sequence tag database suggests that Dhar1p homologs exist in various plants. Furthermore, the rice Dhar1p has a low similarity to rat DHAR, although the rice enzyme has a considerably higher specific activity than the mammalian one. The mRNA level of DHAR1, the protein level of Dhar1p and the DHAR activity in rice seedlings were elevated by high temperature, suggesting the protection role of DHAR at high temperature.
10650095	Zygosporin D (3) and two new cytochalasins (4 and 5) were isolated from the culture filtrate of the fungus Metarrhizium anisopliae and characterized on the basis of their spectral data and chemical conversions. The new cytochalasins, 4 and 5, were determined to be deacetylcytochalasin C and (6R,16S,18R,21R)-18,21-dihydroxy-16, 18-dimethyl-10-phenyl[11]cytochalasa-13(E),19(E)-diene-1,7,17-trio ne, respectively. Of these three cytochalasins, only zygosporin D is an effective inhibitor of shoot elongation of rice seedlings.
10651810	A full-length cDNA clone encoding a phosphoprotein (pp56) involved in the regeneration of rice (Oryza sativa L.)-cultured suspension cells was isolated by screening a rice cultured suspension cell cDNA library. The 1558-bp cDNA sequence contains an ORF encoding an acidic (pI 4.38) protein of 424 amino acids (47.9 kDa), sharing 70-93% and 50-53% homology with other plant and mammalian calreticulins, respectively. Sequence analysis of the cDNA clone revealed several significant conserved motifs, including a calreticulin family repeat motif in the central domain and two calreticulin family motifs in the N-domain, indicating that this gene is a rice calreticulin (CRO1). The CRO1 gene in long-term rice cultured suspension cells shows constitutive expression in both suspension culture and regeneration media. In contrast, expression of the CRO1 gene in short-term rice cultured suspension cells, which possess regeneration potential, is increased dramatically when these cells are transferred to the regeneration medium. After approximately 2 weeks in the regeneration medium, the expression of the CRO1 gene reverts to constitutive levels. These results demonstrate the presence of calreticulin in rice cultured suspension cells and its developmental regulation during the regeneration of rice cultured suspension cells.
10652144	Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) was applied for profiling expressed genes in rice seedlings. In the SAGE method, a 9-11 bp fragment (tag) represents each transcript, and frequency of a tag in the sample directly reflects the abundance of the respective mRNA. We studied 10 122 tags derived from 5921 expressed genes in rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings, among which only 1367 genes (23.1%) matched the rice cDNA or EST sequences in the DNA database. SAGE showed that most of the highly expressed genes in rice seedlings belong to the category of housekeeping genes (genes encoding ribosomal proteins or proteins responsible for metabolism and cell structure). Unexpectedly, the most highly expressed gene in rice seedlings was a metallothionein (MT) gene, and together with three other messages for MT, it accounts for 2.7% of total gene expression. To our knowledge, this is the first quantitative study of global gene expression in a higher plant. We further applied the SAGE technique to identify differentially expressed genes between anaerobically treated and untreated rice seedlings. Additionally, we show that a longer cDNA fragment can be easily recovered by PCR using the SAGE tag sequence as a primer, thereby facilitating the analysis of unknown genes identified by tag sequence in SAGE. In combination with micro-array analysis, SAGE should serve as a highly efficient tool for the identification and isolation of differentially expressed genes in plants.
10653759	The contribution of acetate- and H(2)/CO(2)-dependent methanogenesis to total CH(4) production was determined in excised washed rice roots by radiolabeling, methyl fluoride inhibition, and stable carbon isotope fractionation. Addition of > or = 20 mM phosphate inhibited methanogenesis, which then was exclusively from H(2)/CO(2). Otherwise, acetate contributed about 50 to 60% of the total methanogenesis, demonstrating that phosphate specifically inhibited acetotrophic methanogens on rice roots.
10654161	The aim of the present study was to investigate the precaecal digestibility as a quantitative measure for the intestinal availability of naturally occurring thiamin from selected foods and feedstuffs. Therefore, three experiments were conducted to examine the following foods and feedstuffs: Eggs, bananas, white cabbage, corn, milk, fish, barley, soybeans, rice, wheat bran, brewer's yeast, rye and soybean meal. The foods and food processing procedures were made with regard to their relevance in human and animal nutrition. For all experiments male pigs with an initial live weight between 33 and 40 kg were fitted with an end-to-end ileo-rectal anastomosis with preserved ileo-caeco-colicvalve. Three weeks after surgery, the digestibility trials were carried out from week 4 to week 9 and week 12 to week 17 after surgery. The animals were fed the individual experimental diets for a period of 12 days while digesta were collected twice a day quantitatively during the final 5 days of this period. Precaecal digestibility for thiamin from all tested foods and feedstuffs was within a range from 73% to 94% with the highest values from boiled soybeans, boiled rice and barley, and the lowest value from steamed fish. In comparison with the animal products the plant products show on average a nearly equal precaecal digestibility for thiamin (87.3% versus 83.5%). Moreover, all tested foods and feedstuffs exhibit a relatively good intestinal availability of thiamin.
10655238	A backcrossed population (BC(4)F(2)) derived from a cross between a japonica rice variety, Nipponbare, as the recurrent parent and an indica rice variety, Kasalath, as the donor parent showed a long-range variation in days to heading. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis revealed that two QTL, one on chromosome 3, designated Hd6, and another on chromosome 2, designated Hd7, were involved in this variation; and Hd6 was precisely mapped as a single Mendelian factor by using progeny testing (BC(4)F(3)). The nearly isogenic line with QTL (QTL-NIL) that carries the chromosomal segment from Kasalath for the Hd6 region in Nipponbare's genetic background was developed by marker-assisted selection. In a day-length treatment test, the QTL-NIL for Hd6 prominently increased days to heading under a 13.5-hr day length compared with the recurrent parent, Nipponbare, suggesting that Hd6 controls photoperiod sensitivity. QTL analysis of the F(2) population derived from a cross between the QTL-NILs revealed existence of an epistatic interaction between Hd2, which is one of the photoperiod sensitivity genes detected in a previous analysis, and Hd6. The day-length treatment tests of these QTL-NILs, including the line introgressing both Hd2 and Hd6, also indicated an epistatic interaction for photoperiod sensitivity between them.
10655529	Although standard glucose-based oral rehydration therapy corrects the dehydration caused by cholera, it does not reduce the diarrhea. Short-chain fatty acids, which are produced in the colon from nonabsorbed carbohydrates, enhance sodium absorption. We conducted a study to determine the effects of an orally administered, nonabsorbed starch (i.e., one resistant to digestion by amylase) on fecal fluid loss and the duration of diarrhea in patients with cholera. We randomly assigned 48 adolescents and adults with cholera to treatment with standard oral rehydration therapy (16 patients), standard therapy and 50 g of rice flour per liter of oral rehydration solution (16 patients), or standard therapy and 50 g of high-amylose maize starch, an amylase-resistant starch, per liter of oral rehydration solution (16 patients). The primary end points were fecal weight (for every 12-hour period during the first 48 hours after enrollment) and the length of time to the first formed stool. The mean (+/-SD) fecal weights in the periods 12 to 24 hours, 24 to 36 hours, and 36 to 48 hours after enrollment were significantly lower in the resistant-starch group (2206+/-1158 g, 1810+/-1018 g, and 985+/-668 g) than in the standard-therapy group (3251+/-766 g, 2621+/-1149 g, and 2498+/-1080 g; P=0.01, P= 0.04, and P=0.001, respectively). From 36 to 48 hours after enrollment, fecal weight was also significantly lower with the resistant-starch therapy than with the rice-flour therapy (985+/-668 g vs. 1790+/-866 g, P=0.01). The mean duration of diarrhea was significantly shorter with the resistant-starch therapy (56.7+/-18.6 hours) than with standard therapy alone (90.9+/-29.8 hours, P=0.001) or the rice-flour therapy (70.8+/-20.2 hours, P=0.05). Fecal excretion of starch was higher with the resistant-starch therapy (32.6+/-30.4) than with the standard therapy (11.7+/-4.1 g, P=0.002) or the rice-flour therapy (15.1+/-8.4 g, P=0.01). The addition of a resistant starch to oral rehydration solution reduces fecal fluid loss and shortens the duration of diarrhea in adolescents and adults with cholera.
10656329	An orthogonal experimental design L9 (3(4)) was used to investigate effects of temperature, pH, C:N ratio (glucose-C, NH4Cl-N) and concentrations of rice flour on production of gibberellic acid by Gibberella fujikuroi in 3.5 l fluidized bioreactors. The gibberellic acid production in a fluidized bioreactor could reach 3.90 g l(-1), more than 3-times greater than previously reported for submerged and solid fermentations. pH, rice flour concentration and C:N ratio were the factors that most influenced the production of gibberellic acid; pH being the most important. The response surface of gibberellic acid production to changes in pH and C:N ratio or rice flour concentration indicated that greatest production was found with a C:N ratio of 36.8 and pH 5 while the optimum concentration for rice flour was 2 g l(-1) and production increased with increased pH. The effect of temperature on the production of gibberellic acid was also significant and greatest production was at 30 degrees C.
10656337	In order to analyze intracellular signal transduction, we investigated the mechanism of chemical elicitor action by single-cell transient assay using green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a reporter gene. When the elicitor was applied from outside the cell into which the chitinase promoter and GFP reporter were introduced beforehand, fluorescence emission of GFP was observed. In contrast, when the elicitor was introduced in the cell to let the elicitor act from inside, no emission was observed. Addition of further elicitor from outside, however, did cause GFP emission. Therefore, it is clear that the elicitor does not act after entering the cell but that its signal is transduced into the cell via the cell membrane.
10656571	Four novel metabolites have been isolated from a rice culture of Memnoniella echinata (JS6308) by solvent extraction and radial silica chromatography. The structures were elucidated by spectroscopic techniques, and the absolute stereochemistry of memnobotrin A determined by X-ray crystallography.
10657085
10659772	In the course of map-based cloning of the barley stem rust resistance gene Rpg1, we identified a rice bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) containing the Rpg1 flanking markers. Based on the excellent gene order colinearity between barley and rice in this region, we expected that this rice BAC would contain the barley Rpg1 homologue. In order to identify the putative rice homologue, we sequenced ca. 35 kb of the rice BAC at random and then an additional 33 kb of contiguous sequence between the two most closely spaced Rpg1 flanking markers. Sequence analysis revealed a total of 15 putative genes, 5 within the 33-kb contiguous region. A rice Rpg1 homologue was not identified, although a gene encoding a hypothetical polypeptide with similarity to a membrane protein could not be eliminated as a candidate. Surprisingly, four of the genes identified in the 33-kb contiguous rice sequence showed a high degree of similarity with genes on Arabidopsis chromosome 4. The genome regions harboring these genes showed some relatedness, but many rearrangements were also evident. These data suggest that some genes have remained linked even over the long evolutionary separation of Arabidopsis and rice, as has also been reported for mammals and invertebrates.
10659779	The present study was carried out to characterize the molecular organization in the vicinity of the waxy locus in rice. To determine the structural organization of the region surrounding waxy, contiguous clones covering a total of 260 kb were constructed using a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library from the Shimokita variety of Japonica rice. This map also contains 200 overlapping subclones, which allowed construction of a fine physical map with a total of 64 HindIII sites. During the course of constructing the map, we noticed the presence of some repeated regions which might be related to transposable elements. We divided the 260-kb region into 60 segments (average size of 5.7 kb) to use as probes to determine their genomic organization. Hybridization patterns obtained by probing with these segments were classified into four types: class 1, a single or a few bands without a smeared background; class 2, a single or a few bands with a smeared background; class 3, multiple discrete bands without a smeared background; and class 4, only a smeared background. These classes constituted 6.5%, 20.9%, 3.7%, and 68.9% of the 260-kb region, respectively. The distribution of each class revealed that repetitive sequences are a major component in this region, as expected, and that unique sequence regions were mostly no longer than 6 kb due to interruption by repetitive sequences. We discuss how the map constructed here might be a powerful tool for characterization and comparison of the genome structures and the genes around the waxy locus in the Oryza species.
10659792	To investigate the excision of a maize transposable element in wheat cells, plasmid DNAs containing a Dissociation (Ds) element located between a rice actin 1 gene promoter and a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (gus) were introduced into wheat callus lines by microprojectile bombardment, and transient GUS expression was assayed. The gus-expressing cells after Ds excision were detected only when the Activator (Ac) transposase gene was co-transformed. To further examine a relationship between the amount of Ac mRNA and the Ds excision frequency, the Ds-containing plasmids were introduced into 15 independent transgenic callus lines transformed with the Ac transposase gene. Ten lines expressed the Ac transposase gene under the control of either the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter or the Ac native promoter. The gus gene expression that indicated the Ds excision was observed only in the transgenic callus lines stably expressing the Ac transposase gene. The number of blue spots reflecting the frequency of Ds excision was variable among them. Northern-blot analysis also showed a large variability in the amount of Ac transposase transcripts among the lines. It was however noted that the excision frequency was decreased at a high level of the Ac transposase transcripts, supporting the hypothesis that Ds excision is inhibited above a certain level of the Ac transposase as observed in maize and transgenic tobacco.
10660065	Genes that encode products containing a NAC domain, such as NO APICAL MERISTEM (NAM) in petunia, CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON2 (CUC2) and NAP in Arabidopsis thaliana, have crucial functions in plant development. We describe here molecular aspects of the OsNAC genes that encode proteins with NAC domains in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Sequence analysis revealed that the NAC genes in plants can be divided into several subfamilies, such as the NAM, ATAF, and OsNAC3 subfamilies. In rice, OsNAC1 and OsNAC2 are classified in the NAM subfamily, which includes NAM and CUC2, while OsNAC5 and OsNAC6 fall into the ATAF subfamily. In addition to the members of these subfamilies, the rice genome contains the NAC genes OsNAC3, OsNAC4 (both in the OsNAC3 subfamily), OsNAC7, and OsNAC8. These results and Southern analysis indicate that the OsNAC genes constitute a large gene family in the rice genome. Each OsNAC gene is expressed in a specific pattern in different organs, suggesting that this family has diverse and important roles in rice development.
10660442
10664124	Two cDNA clones encoding F(1)F(0)-ATPase inhibitor proteins, which are loosely associated with the F(1) part of the mitochondrial F(1)F(0)-ATPase, were characterized from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). A Northern hybridization showed that the two genes (designated as IF(1)-1 and IF(1)-2) are transcribed in all the organs examined. However, the steady-state mRNA levels varied among organs. A comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of the two IF(1) genes and the amino acid sequence of the mature IF(1) protein from potato revealed that IF(1)-1 and IF(1)-2 have N-terminal extensions with features that are characteristic of a mitochondrial targeting signal. To determine the subcellular localization of the gene products, the IF(1)-1 or IF(1)-2 proteins were fused in frame to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) or the fused GFP-beta-glucuronidase, and expressed transiently in onion or dayflower epidermal cells. Localized fluorescence was detected in mitochondria, confirming that the two IF(1) proteins are targeted to mitochondria.
10664132	Microscopic examination of suspension- cultured cells of Phleum pratense L., Panicum miliaceum L., Phalarisaquatica L. and Oryza sativa L. showed that they were comprised of numerous root primordia. Polysaccharides secreted by these suspension cultures contained glycosyl linkages consistent with the presence of high proportions of root mucilage-like polysaccharides. In contrast, suspension-cultured cells of Hordeum vulgare L. contained mostly undifferentiated cells more typical of plant cells in suspension culture. The polysaccharides secreted by H. vulgare cultures contained mostly linkages consistent with the presence of glucuronoarabinoxylan. The soluble polymers secreted by cell-suspension cultures of Phleum pratense contained 70% carbohydrate, 14% protein and 6% inorganic material. The extracellular polysaccharides were separated into four fractions by anion-exchange chromatography using a gradient of imidazole-HCl at pH 7.0. From glycosyl-linkage analyses, five polysaccharides were identified: an arabinosylated xyloglucan (comprising 20% of the total polysaccharide), a glucomannan (6%), a type-II arabinogalactan (an arabinogalactan-protein; 7%), an acidic xylan (3%), and a root-slime-like polysaccharide, which contained features of type-II arabinogalactans and glucuronomannans (65%).
10664838	The 16-kDa rice allergen, RA17, belonging to the alpha-amylase/trypsin inhibitor family was isolated from rice seed and structurally characterized by identifying cystine-containing peptides and predicting the secondary structure and hydrophobic regions. Eight peptides, which constitute three sets of cystine-containing peptides, were purified by HPLC from a thermolytic digest of RA17 and identified by their amino acid sequence and composition, indicating five intramolecular disulfide bridges: Cys34-Cys94, Cys26-(Cys50 or Cys51)-Cys110 and Cys12-(Cys62 or Cys64)-Cys122. Analyses of the CD spectrum and the Chou-Fasman prediction suggested that RA17 had some helical- and sheet-structure regions. Based on these experimental and predicted data, RA17 is proposed to be a globular molecule with a small hydrophobic core having folding restricted by five intramolecular disulfide bridges.
10665229	The NS3 and NC protein genes encoded by RNA3 of RStV, the NCP and NSvc4 protein genes encoded by RNA4 were subcloned into the E. coli expression vector pGEX3X to express four groups of fusion protein under IPTG induction. These fusion proteins were used to immunize rabbits to raise antisera. The antisera against the E. coli-expressed proteins were available for probing the presence of the viral gene products in both rice plant and insect hosts. The expected gene products can be probed only in diseased rice plant with NCP antiserum and the corresponding products detected in both plant and RStV particle preparation with NC antiserum. The viral gene products probed by NS3 and NSvc4 antisera were different from the expected ones in size.
10666237	Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) is a plant pararetrovirus whose DNA genome contains four genes encoding three proteins and a large polyprotein. The function of most of the viral proteins is still unknown. To investigate the role of the gene II product (P2), we searched for interactions between this protein and other RTBV proteins. P2 was shown to interact with the coat protein (CP) domain of the viral gene III polyprotein (P3) both in the yeast two-hybrid system and in vitro. Domains involved in the P2-CP association have been identified and mapped on both proteins. To determine the importance of this interaction for viral multiplication, the infectivity of RTBV gene II mutants was investigated by agroinoculation of rice plants. The results showed that virus viability correlates with the ability of P2 to interact with the CP domain of P3. This study suggests that P2 could participate in RTBV capsid assembly.
10667774
10667792	Methane is involved in a number of chemical and physical processes in the Earth's atmosphere, including global warming. Atmospheric methane originates mainly from biogenic sources, such as rice paddies and natural wetlands; the former account for at least 30% of the global annual emission of methane to the atmosphere. As an increase of rice production by 60% is the most appropriate way to sustain the estimated increase of the human population during the next three decades, intensified global fertilizer application will be necessary: but it is known that an increase of the commonly used ammonium-based fertilizers can enhance methane emission from rice agriculture. Approximately 10-30% of the methane produced by methanogens in rice paddies is consumed by methane-oxidizing bacteria associated with the roots of rice; these bacteria are generally thought to be inhibited by ammonium-based fertilizers, as was demonstrated for soils and sediments. In contrast, we show here that the activity and growth of such bacteria in the root zone of rice plants are stimulated after fertilization. Using a combination of radioactive fingerprinting and molecular biology techniques, we identify the bacteria responsible for this effect. We expect that our results will make necessary a re-evaluation of the link between fertilizer use and methane emissions, with effects on global warming studies.
10669581	To date, much of the genetics of the basidiomycete Thanatephorus cucumeris (anamorph = Rhizoctonia solani) remains unknown. Here, we present a population genetics study using codominant markers to augment laboratory analyses. Seven single-copy nuclear RFLP markers were used to examine 182 isolates of Rhizoctonia solani AG-1 IA collected from six commercial rice fields in Texas. Thirty-six multilocus RFLP genotypes were identified. Population subdivision analyses indicated a high degree of gene flow/migration between the six geographic populations. Tests for Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) among the 36 multilocus RFLP genotypes revealed that four of the seven loci did not significantly differ from HWE. Subsequent analysis demonstrated that departures from HWE at the three remaining loci were due to an excess of heterozygotes. Data presented here suggest that R. solani AG-1 IA is actively outbreeding (heterothallic). Possible explanations for heterozygote excess, which was observed at all seven RFLP loci, are discussed.
10670259	Adolescents are considered a high nutritional risk group because their nutritional needs are increased with respect to other age groups, and because this period of life coincides with changes in life style that affect, often negatively, their eating habits. Our overall goal is to study the usual eating pattern of Valencian adolescents together with their drink and tobacco consumption, but the first stage focuses on setting up, validating and correcting methods to be applied. The present study was therefore carried out in a sample composed of 64 adolescents, ranging from 16 to 20 years of age. A self administered survey developed in our Department was used to explore their food preferences, eating habits, smoking habits and alcohol and coffee intake. The following results were obtained: The number of daily meals was of 3.7 +/- 0.9. The 91% takes the breakfast daily (milk with cereals or sweet rolls) and the majority of the students eat a second mid-morning breakfast. Lunch is of the traditional type, consisting of two courses. The first is rice or pasta, followed by meat, fish or eggs usually accompanied by a side dish or salad. Fresh fruit is the dessert eaten, almost daily by the majority of the sample. The most usual drink is water. The 70% of the sample have one supplementary afternoon intake "merienda". All of the surveyed people like fruits, pasta and chicken meat. While, liver and legumes are disliked by the majority. The intakes of soft drinks, snacks, alcohol, coffee and tobacco are moderate, being, all these products mainly consumed during the weekend. The mean diet offers an excess of proteins and saturated fat, while complex carbohydrates and dietetic fiber are scarce. Nutritional intakes of iron, magnesium and zinc in girls, and magnesium, folates and vitamin A in boys are estimated insufficient to fulfil their needs.
10670679	1. Seven-day old male broilers (n=900) were fed on wheat-sorghum-soyabean meal-based diets containing 3 concentrations of phytic acid (10.4, 13.2 and 15.7 g/kg; equivalent to 2.9, 3.7 and 4.4 g/kg phytate phosphorus), 2 of non-phytate phosphorus (2.3 and 4.5 g/kg) and 3 of microbial phytase (Natuphos 5000 L; 0, 400 and 800 FTU/kg) in a 19-d trial. The dietary phytic acid contents were manipulated by the inclusion of rice pollard. 2. Each dietary treatment was fed to 5 pens (10 birds/pen) from 7 to 25 d of age. Records of body weight, food intake and mortality were maintained. On d 25, all surviving birds were killed and toe samples were obtained for toe ash measurements. 3. Increasing dietary phytic acid negatively influenced body weight gain, food intake and food/gain. These adverse effects were partially overcome by the addition of microbial phytase. 4. Supplemental phytase caused improvements in weight gain and food efficiency of broilers but the magnitude of the responses was greater in low non-phytate phosphorus diets, resulting in significant non-phytate phosphorus x phytase interactions. 5. Toe ash contents were improved by phytase addition but the response was greater at the highest concentration of phytic acid, resulting in a significant phytic acid x phytase interaction. Responses were also greater in low non-phytate phosphorus diets as indicated by significant non-phytate phosphorus x phytase interaction. 6. In general, there was very little difference in the responses to phytase additions at 400 and 800 FTU/kg. 7. The performance responses to added phytase in birds receiving adequate non-phytate phosphorus diets provide evidence for the influence of the enzyme on animal performance independent of its effect on phosphorus availability.
10670920	The adsorption behavior of rice husks for antimony ions from aqueous solutions has been investigated as a function of appropriate electrolyte, equilibration time, hydrogen ions, amount of adsorbent, concentration of adsorbate, effect of diverse ions and temperature. The best conditions in which this material can be used as adsorbent have been explored. The radiotracer technique was employed to determine the distribution of antimony (122Sb) using a batch method. Maximum adsorption was observed at 0.01 mol L(-1) acid solutions (HNO3, HCl, H2SO4 and HClO4) using 1.0 g of adsorbent for 1.92 x 10(-5) mol L(-1) antimony concentration in 10 min equilibration time. Studies show that the adsorption decreases with the increase in the concentrations of all the acids. The adsorption data follow the Freundlich isotherm over the range of 1.92 x 10(-5) to 2.05 x 10(-4) mol L(-1) antimony concentration. The characteristic Freundlich constants i.e., 1/n = 0.82 +/- 0.05 and K = 4.61 +/- 0.07 m mol g(-1) have been computed for the sorption system. The uptake of antimony increases with the rise in temperature (299-323 K). Thermodynamic quantities i.e., deltaG0, deltaS0 and deltaH0 have also been calculated for the system. The sorption process was found to be endothermic.
10672021	The 3D solution structure of wheat nonspecific lipid transfer protein (ns-LTP) complexed with prostaglandin B2, a lipid with both vinyl and hydroxylated groups, has been determined by 1H 2D NMR. The global fold of the protein is close to the previously published structures of wheat, maize, barley and rice ns-LTPs. The ligand is almost completely embedded in the hydrophobic core of the protein. Structure comparisons of free and bound wheat ns-LTP reveal that the binding of prostaglandin B2 hardly affects the global fold of the protein. The structural data on this unusual complex are discussed and compared with other known ns-LTP lipid-complexes.
10672201	We surveyed Nongceng, a village in a south-eastern province of Lao PDR, for malaria and its vectors. Nongceng is situated in a basin and surrounded by rice fields. In February 1998 (dry season), 28.6% of 126 villagers were infected with malaria, and in September 1998 (rainy season), 16.3% of 147 villagers. The prevalence of malaria infection was consistently high in children under 10, and the predominant malaria species was Plasmodium falciparum. In brief surveys of the mosquitoes performed on the same day as the malaria surveys, 2007 Anopheles females from 12 species were collected by means of human bait, animal bait and resting collections. Of the vector species known to be important in transmitting malaria in neighbouring Thailand - An. minimus, An. dirus, and An. maculatus groups - only An. minimus was found. Its density was, however, very low in both seasons and it was therefore unlikely to be the vector. In fact, An. nivipes accounted for more than 65% of all mosquitoes collected and was the most common species collected from human baits. The results of this study show that endemic areas of malaria in Lao PDR are not necessarily related to forest. Rather, An. nivipes is suspected to be the most important vector.
10672488	The Japanese people are known to have high environmental exposure to cadmium (Cd). The present survey was initiated to elucidate possible changes in the intensity of Cd exposure to the population by comparison of the present exposure level with the situation some 15 years ago. During 1991-1997, 24-h food-duplicate samples, peripheral blood specimens and morning spot urine samples were collected from 588 non smoking women from 27 survey sites in six regions, where food-duplicate and blood samples had also been obtained during 1977-1981 from 399 women. The samples were wet-ashed (after homogenization in the case of food-duplicates), and Cd in the wet-ashed samples was analyzed by inductively-coupled plasma mass spectrometry for Cd intake via foods (Cd-F), Cd concentration in blood (Cd-B) and Cd concentration in urine (Cd-U). The Cd-F and Cd-B were compared with the Cd-F and Cd-B obtained at the same sites in the 1977-1981 survey. The exposure levels during 1991-1997 were such that Cd-F, Cd-B and Cd-Ucr (Cd-U after correction for creatinine concentration) were 25.5 micrograms/day, 1.90 micrograms/l and 4.39 micrograms/g creatinine. Comparison with the 1977-1981 survey results (i.e., 37.5 micrograms/day for Cd-F and 3.47 micrograms/l for Cd-B) showed that there were significant reductions (by 32 and 45%) in both parameters respectively during the last 15 years. The dietary route was an almost exclusive (i.e., 99% of the sum of dietary and respiratory uptake) route of Cd uptake, of which Cd in rice (11.7 micrograms/day) contributed about 40% of the total dietary intake. When compared among survey sites, inter-site variation in dietary Cd intake was primarily due to differences in the intake through boiled rice. Despite the recent reduction in Cd exposure, the current exposure level for Japanese people is still higher than the levels among other rice-dependent populations in Asia as well as in other parts of the world. Comparison was made between the present findings in general populations and observations among known Cd-pollution cases in Japan. Dietary uptake is an almost exclusive route of Cd exposure in the general Japanese population. Boiled rice is a strong determinant of variation in dietary Cd intake. Whereas there was a substantial reduction in Cd exposure among Japanese populations in the last 15 years, the current level is still high when compared internationally.
10675025	An apparatus for the preparation of gels for immobilized pH gradient isoelectric focusing (IPG) in glass tubes was developed. Using this apparatus, the highly reproducible immobilized pH gradient can be formed with Immobilines in polyacrylamide gels, and IPG gels at all possible pH ranges can be easily prepared at low cost. The IPG tube gels in the first dimension in two-dimensional gel electrophoresis was used to separate and identify a number of rice embryo proteins in the proteome analysis. There was no difference in resolution of proteins between the tube gels and the commercially available slab gels; after electrophoresis, however, we could efficiently obtain a larger amount of the purified proteins from the tube gels than from the slab gels.
10675523	The voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) of mitochondria forms a large pore in the outer envelope membrane. Here, the full Oryza sativa OSVDAC1 cDNA was sequenced and is shown to belong to a small multigene family in the rice genome. This cDNA is 1093 bp long and codes for a protein of 274 amino acids. Expression studies of the osvdac1 gene show a regulation of its level in function of the plantlets maturation and organs. In contrast with several bacterial porins, osmotic stress does not have any effect on the plant osvdac1 gene expression.
10675616	In Aloe arborescens, an obligate CAM plant, Western analysis detected three major isoforms of NADP-malic enzyme (NADP-ME), 72kDa with a pI of 6.0, 65kDa with a pI of 5.6 and 65kDa with a pI of 5.5. Among them, the 65kDa protein with a pI of 5.5 was leaf-specific, and the 65kDa protein with a pI of 5.6 was found only in roots, whereas the 72kDa protein was uniformly detected in both organs. Activity staining indicated enzyme activity of both 65kDa NADP-MEs but little activity of the 72kDa protein. A cDNA clone encoding a leaf-abundant NADP-ME, AME1, was isolated. Deduced amino acid sequence of AME1 showed a high degree of homology to known NADP-MEs, but it was also found that AME1 contained substitutions on five conservative amino acid residues, some of which have been predicted to be important for their enzyme activity. Transgenic rice carrying the aloe AME1 gene efficiently produced an additional 65kDa protein with a pI of 5.5 as an active NADP-ME. These results indicate that AME1 corresponds to the leaf-specific 65kDa NADP-ME, which may be involved in CAM photosynthesis. It was also shown that substitutions of these conservative amino acid residues identified in AME1 still allowed it to give enzyme activity.
10677431	Elucidating how rice (Oryza sativa) takes up nitrate at the molecular level could help improve the low recovery rate (<50%) of nitrogen fertilizer in rice paddies. As a first step toward that goal, we have cloned a nitrate transporter gene from rice called OsNRT1. OsNRT1 is a new member of a growing transporter family called PTR, which consists not only of nitrate transporters from higher plants that are homologs of the Arabidopsis CHL1 (AtNRT1) protein, but also peptide transporters from a wide variety of genera including animals, plants, fungi, and bacteria. However, despite the fact that OsNRT1 shares a higher degree of sequence identity with the two peptide transporters from plants (approximately 50%) than with the nitrate transporters (approximately 40%) of the PTR family, no peptide transport activity was observed when OsNRT1 was expressed in either Xenopus oocytes or yeast. Furthermore, contrasting the dual-affinity nitrate transport activity of CHL1, OsNRT1 displayed only low-affinity nitrate transport activity in Xenopus oocytes, with a K(m) value of approximately 9 mM. Northern-blot and in situ hybridization analysis indicated that OsNRT1 is constitutively expressed in the most external layer of the root, epidermis and root hair. These data strongly indicate that OsNRT1 encodes a constitutive component of a low-affinity nitrate uptake system for rice.
10677437	Although several nucleoside diphosphate (NDP) kinase genes have been cloned in plants, little is known about the functional significance of this enzyme during plant growth and development. We introduced a chimeric gene encoding an antisense RNA of NDP kinase under the control of the Arabidopsis heat shock protein HSP81-1 promoter into rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens transformation system. The expression of antisense RNA down-regulated the accumulation of mRNA, resulting in reduced enzyme activity even under the standard growth temperature (25 degrees C) in transgenic plants. Following heat shock treatment (37 degrees C), NDP kinase activities in some transgenic rice plants were more reduced than those grown under 25 degrees C. The comparison of the coleoptile growth under submersion showed that cell elongation process was inhibited in antisense NDP kinase transgenic plants, suggesting that an altered guanine nucleotide level may be responsible for the processes.
10678435	The growth of psychrotrophic Bacillus cereus 404 from spores in boiled rice was examined experimentally at 15, 20, and 30 degrees C. Using the Gompertz function, observed growth was modeled, and these kinetic values were compared with kinetic values for the growth of mesophilic vegetative cells as predicted by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Pathogen Modeling Program, version 5.1. An analysis of variance indicated no statistically significant difference between observed and predicted values. A graphical comparison of kinetic values demonstrated that modeled predictions were "fail safe" for generation time and exponential growth rate at all temperatures. The model also was fail safe for lag-phase duration at 20 and 30 degrees C but not at 15 degrees C. Bias factors of 0.55, 0.82, and 1.82 for generation time, lag-phase duration, and exponential growth rate, respectively, indicated that the model generally was fail safe and hence provided a margin of safety in its growth predictions. Accuracy factors of 1.82, 1.60, and 1.82 for generation time, lag-phase duration, and exponential growth rate, respectively, quantitatively demonstrated the degree of difference between predicted and observed values. Although the Pathogen Modeling Program produced reasonably accurate predictions of the growth of psychrotrophic B. cereus from spores in boiled rice, the margin of safety provided by the model may be more conservative than desired for some applications. It is recommended that if microbial growth modeling is to be applied to any food safety or processing situation, it is best to validate the model before use. Once experimental data are gathered, graphical and quantitative methods of analysis can be useful tools for evaluating specific trends in model prediction and identifying important deviations between predicted and observed data.
10680171	Hexose kinases in rice embryos have been characterized. Six isoforms were detected: i.e. three glucokinases (GK1-3), two hexokinases (HK1 and HK2) and one fructokinase (FK1). Out of these, GK3, HK1 and HK2 were inhibited by mannoheptulose and glucosamine, known inhibitors of hexokinase activity. These inhibitors are also known to be modulators of sugar sensing processes. The results suggest that GK3, HK1 and HK2 may play a role in sensing the cellular sugar status in the rice embryo.
10680295	Development of simple and reliable PCR-based markers is an important component of marker-aided selection (MAS) activities for agronomically important genes in rice breeding. In order to develop PCR-based markers for a rice thermosensitive genetic male sterility gene tms3(t), located on chromosome 6, the nucleotide sequences of four linked RAPD markers OPF18(2600), OPAC3(640), OPB19(750) and OPM7(550) were used to design and synthesize several pairs of specific primers for PCR amplification of the genomic DNA of both the parents IR32364TGMS (sterile) and IR68 (fertile), involved in mapping this gene. For the RAPD marker OPF 18(2600), two pairs of specific primer pair combination from different positions of the sequence resulted in generation of two codominant STS (Sequence Tagged Sites) markers. In case of markers OPAC3(640), OPB19(750) and OPAA7(550) the first two could generate dominant polymorphism, while the last one could not be successful in PCR amplification. Both the codominant STSs with primer combinations F18F/F18RM and F18FM/F18RM were found to be tightly linked to the tms3(t) gene with a genetic distance of 2.7 cM. The sizes of the different alleles in case of F18F/F18RM, F18FM/F18RM combinations were 2300 bp, 1050 bp, and 1900 bp, 1000 bp respectively. The efficiency of marker-assisted selection for this trait was estimated as 84.6%. Polymorphism survey of 12 elite rice lines, indicated that these PCR-based markers for tms3(t) can now be used in selecting TGMS plants at seeding stage in the segregating populations in environment independent of controlled temperature regime.
10682873	Studies with rats have found that an interaction between fructose and magnesium affects macromineral metabolism; high dietary fructose significantly increased kidney calcification in both male and female rats, particularly when dietary magnesium was low. This study tests the hypothesis that an interaction between dietary fructose and magnesium adversely affects macromineral homeostasis in men. Eleven men aged 22 to 40 years were fed a mixed, Western diet for four 42-day dietary periods in which dietary magnesium was either approximately 170 or 370 mg/day and dietary fructose was either 4% or 20% of energy. A decaffeinated beverage containing high fructose corn syrup replaced cornstarch, bread and rice in the low fructose diet to give the high fructose diet. High dietary fructose significantly (p<0.01) increased magnesium balance during both low and high dietary magnesium intakes. Ultrafilterable and ionized serum magnesium also apparently were related to magnesium and fructose intakes; they were higher when fructose was fed and when Mg intakes were high. High fructose depressed calcium balance: the effect tended to be more marked when dietary Mg was low. High dietary fructose also significantly (p<0.005) decreased phosphorous balance. Urinary phosphorous losses were significantly (p<0.001) higher when high dietary fructose was fed. High dietary fructose also increased the concentration of serum alkaline phosphatase (p<0.005). These findings indicate that dietary fructose adversely affects macromineral homeostasis in humans and suggest further studies to see if a high fructose diet coupled with low dietary magnesium and marginal calcium leads to bone loss.
10683746	We have developed a simple procedure for the preparation of plant genomic DNA using FTA paper. Plant leaves were crushed against FTA paper, and the genomic DNA was purified using simple, nonorganic reagents. The 18S rRNA gene and the gene encoding the ribulose-1, 5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase large subunit (rbcL) from the chloroplast genome were detected by PCR amplification of DNA on FTA paper. DNA amplification was successful using extracts from 16 dicot and monocot plants. Studies of specific plant extracts revealed that extracts of leaf samples could be collected and stored at room temperature on FTA paper without a decrease in the DNA amplification success rate for more than a month. Both the 18S RNA gene and the rbcL gene were detected in the genomic DNA isolated from various soybean cultivars stored in this manner. Furthermore, by modestly increasing the number of cycles of DNA amplification, we were able to detect the uidA gene in transgenic tobacco and rice leaves as well as a single copy gene linked to the resistance gene of cyst nematode race 3 using genomic DNA isolated on FTA paper. These results demonstrate that genomic DNA isolated using FTA paper can be used for the detection of plant genes, from a wide range of plants with either high or low gene copy number and of either nuclear or cytoplasmic origin.
10683805	Using 351 one-day weighted diet records, we selected foods providing vitamins, minerals and dietary fiber according to contribution analysis (CA) and multiple regression analysis (MRA). Vitamin C was supplied by various vegetables and fruits, and carotene was specifically derived from green-yellow vegetables based on MRA as well as CA. Vitamin A was provided by green-yellow vegetables, fruits, chicken egg and milk (whole) according to CA; whereas chicken liver and pork liver were major sources according to MRA. Vitamin E was mainly of vegetable origin as determined by CA, and largely of spinach, safflower oil and pumpkin as determined by MRA. Vitamin D was mainly derived from chicken egg, fish and mushroom based on CA, and particularly from fish based on MRA. Calcium was supplied by milk (whole), soy products and chicken egg as determined by CA; while milk, tofu and various small fishes were the main contributors to variance. Magnesium was provided by soy products, well-milled rice and spinach according to both analyses, and iron by chicken egg, spinach and soy products. Zinc was largely derived from well-milled rice, followed by chicken egg and milk (whole) as determined by CA, and copper was provided by well-milled rice, soy and wheat products. Dietary fiber was supplied by vegetable sources, whether water soluble or insoluble, based on both analytic methods.
10684125	The absorption of food carbohydrate was determined with breath hydrogen test (BHT) in healthy adults. When the absorption of lactulose was assumed as 0, the absorption of food carbohydrates were as follows: 100% for rice with ground lean pork; 98% for rice; 85% for bread; 58% for corn and 30% for red potato. The absorption of food carbohydrate was positively related to the oral-colon transit time (OCTT, r = 0.8790) and the peak hydrogen time (PHT, r = 0.6745), and was negatively related to the peak hydrogen value (PHV, r = -0.6468) and to the hydrogen producing percentage (H2 > 1.8 mg/m3, r = -0.8679). The breath hydrogen test can be used in estimating the absorption of food carbohydrate in human body because this method is safe, non-invasive, reproducible and accurate.
10687154	Model cake systems were formulated with wheat and rice starches at hydration levels of 112.5% and 137.5% (flour weight basis) and baked in a microwave oven at power levels of 80% and 100%. Temperature profiles and weight loss profiles of the cakes baked in the microwave oven were compared with those of the cakes baked conventionally. One cake was baked at a time, and three replications of each treatment were used. Center and edge temperatures of microwave cakes increased significantly with increasing moisture content of the batter and oven power. Weight loss of the cakes was dependent on oven power, starch type and hydration levels. Cakes baked in the microwave oven had greater weight loss than the cakes baked in convection mode. Wheat starch cakes had greater volumes than rice starch cakes. Rice starch cakes were more tender than wheat starch cakes.
10687813	Following inoculation with Azorhizobium caulinodans ORS571 (pXLGD4), lateral root development of rice and colonization of lateral root cracks by bacteria were shown to be stimulated by the flavonoid naringenin. Rice seedlings growing aseptically in the presence of naringenin were inoculated with ORS571 (pXLGD4), carrying the lacZ reporter gene. By microscopic analysis of sections of inoculated rice roots, it has been demonstrated that the xylem of rice roots can be colonized by Azorhizobium caulinodans. We discuss whether this colonization of the xylem of rice roots by azorhizobia could provide a suitable niche for endophytic nitrogen fixation.
10688441
10688703	Effects of methyl jasmonate (MeJA) on rice floret opening were investigated in seven cultivars or hybrid combinations covering various variety types. Intact or excised panicles, judged to have florets just before anthesis, were soaked in 4 x 10(-5) - 4 x 10(-3)M MeJA solutions for 2 min at different temperatures. The results indicated that MeJA significantly induced opening of rice florets within about 30 min, with the most rapid induction occurring just 6 min after treatment. Numbers of induced opening florets are correlated with MeJA concentrations. Higher concentrations of MeJA induced more florets. pH values had no influence on MeJA effect, but MeJA required less time and induced more florets at 34 degrees C than at 25 degrees C. As far as we know, this is the first evidence that floret opening is induced by plant hormones. CO(2) evolution from panicles was also increased by MeJA treatment. Field experiments revealed that perfect flowering synchrony between the cytoplasmic male sterile (CMS) and restorer lines in hybrid seed production could be obtained by spraying MeJA solution on CMS line plants at the rate of 25 mg/m(2). As a result, many more hybrid seeds were harvested.
10689158	The creA genes of two plant pathogenic fungi, the gibberellin-producing rice pathogen Gibberella fujikuroi and the gray mold Botrytis cinerea, were isolated and characterized. The deduced amino acid sequences of both glucose repressors are 64% identical to each other and 59% (G. fujikuroi) and 61% (B. cinerea) identical to the CreA protein of Aspergillus nidulans. The zinc finger regions of the Gibberella and Botrytis CreA proteins shared 98% identity with the corresponding zinc finger region of the A. nidulans protein, and studies by complementation of a creA null mutant of A. nidulans showed that the proteins are functional homologues of A. nidulans CreA. Northern blot analysis revealed that creA transcript levels are independent of the carbon source in both fungi.
10690402	This review of plant population genetics focuses on the genetic foundations of the processes that have led to documentable improvements in cultivated plants since the earliest domestications took place perhaps 13,000 years ago. Nearly all human civilizations have depended heavily on inbreeding plants (particularly wheat, barley, soybeans and other inbreeding legumes), as well as outbreeding vegetatively propagated species (white potatoes, yams) as their dietary standbys. The principal exception is maize (corn), an annual seed-produced outbreeder in nature. It is noteworthy that maize joined wheat, rice, and barley as a truly major crop worldwide only after its conversion to self-pollination combined with hybridization between favorably interacting inbred lines increased yield of maize several-fold in the twentieth century.
10691130	COP9 complex is one of the most important components that act in repressing photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana. FUS6 has been identified as one of eight subunits of the COP9 complex in Arabidopsis. Using Arabidopsis Fus6 cDNA as a probe, we screened a rice root cDNA library and a rice genomic library. A 1730-bp cDNA was obtained, which has an open reading frame corresponding to 441-amino-acid. This 441 amino acids putative protein has 67% identity with Arabidopsis COP11/FUS6 (AtFUS6) and 40% identity with human GPS1, an AtFUS6 orthologue. So we designated this novel gene as rFUS6. The 6.2-kb genomic sequence of rFUS6 was also obtained. Sequence comparison showed that the rFUS6 gene had six exons and five introns. Sequence inspection of the 5'-flanking region revealed the presence of some potential light-regulated cis-elements such as a G-box, GT-1 binding sites, and a TGACG motif. Southern hybridization with rice total DNA showed that rFUS6 was perhaps a single copy gene. The rFUS6 locus was mapped by hybridization with a rice BAC library membrane and the results showed that rFUS6 had a locus at 16.3 cM of chromosome 1.
10691623	The thermal dependency and stability of enzymes producing reducing sugar (RS) were examined in bran, the exterior 13% part (outer endosperm), and the remaining inner endosperm of rice grains. RS-producing enzymes in the inner endosperm showed a higher optimum temperature than those in other parts of the rice grain. Diethylaminoethyl-Sephacel chromatography of crude extracts revealed two peaks of RS-producing activity with different optimum temperatures (60 and 37 degrees C) in all three parts. alpha-Glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.20) and alpha-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) isoform G were thought to be major components of the RS-producing activities with high and low optimum temperatures, respectively. The peak with a high optimum temperature was a more abundant component in the inner endosperm, compared with other parts of the rice grain. Thus, different parts of rice were found to have distinct enzyme sets having different thermal dependency and to be involved in starch degradation to various sugars.
10691639	Free zone capillary electrophoresis conditions have been improved to allow rapid (2-8 min) separations of grain proteins from several cereals (wheat, oats, rice, barley, and rye) with high resolution and reproducibility. This new method utilized the isoelectric compound iminodiacetic acid (IDA) in conjunction with 20% acetonitrile and 0.05% hydroxypropylmethylcellulose. Cultivars of all cereals tested could be differentiated in 3 min, including wheat, using either prolamin or glutelin protein patterns. Resolution was similar to or higher than that of separations in other acidic buffers. Migration time repeatability was excellent with run-to-run variability <1% RSD, day-to-day <1.4% RSD, and capillary-to-capillary <3.3% RSD. Because larger inner diameter capillaries (50 microm) could be used with this buffer, sensitivity was improved and capillary rinse times could be reduced when compared to smaller capillaries (25 microm i.d.). This also served to reduce total separation time so that the majority of cereal storage protein from several types of cereals could be analyzed with total analysis times of 2-8 min with extremely high resolution and repeatability. This method would allow unattended, high-throughput (approximately 180-400 samples/24 h) analysis of cereal proteins without the generation of much organic solvent waste as well as automated data analysis and storage.
10691657	The effect of microwave heat, packaging methods, and storage temperatures on proximate and fatty acid compositions of rice bran during 16 weeks of storage was examined. Freshly milled raw rice bran was adjusted to 21% moisture content and microwave heated for 3 min. Raw and microwave-heated brans were packed in zipper-top bags and/or vacuum-sealed bags and stored at 4-5 and/or 25 degrees C for 16 weeks. The moisture content decreased significantly from an initial 8.4 to 6.4% in microwave-heated samples regardless of packaging methods and storage temperatures. Protein, fat, linoleic, and linolenic contents did not change significantly in all raw and microwave-heated samples during 16 weeks of storage. The microwave-heated rice bran packed in zipper-top bags can be stored at 4-5 degrees C for up to 16 weeks without adverse effect on proximate and fatty acid composition quality under the conditions employed in this study.
10693009	A rapid, quantitative, inexpensive, and efficient method was developed to determine aflatoxins in corn, corn meal, popcorn, rice, wheat, cottonseed, and peanuts. Samples are ground and extracted with methanol-water (80 + 20). A portion of the extract is cleaned up by passage through a solid-phase separatory column, 500 microL purified extract is derivatized with a bromine reagent, and fluorescence of the solution is immediately quantified with a calibrated fluorometer containing a broad wavelength pulsed xenon light source. This method can quantify aflatoxin from 5 to 5000 ppb without dilution and was linear when applied to samples of noncontaminated corn spiked at 0 to 5000 micrograms aflatoxin B1/g. Correlation coefficients of the method with LC for multiple analyses for corn (n = 34), cottonseed (n = 32), and peanuts (n = 11) were 0.999, 0.995, and 0.980, respectively. Individual analyses may be conducted in less than 5 min, and grouping of samples is unnecessary. The sensitivity of the method for corn is 5 ppb and the fluorometer, under the operating conditions, has a limit of detection of 0.6 ng aflatoxin B1.
10694063	Active oxygen species (AOSs) are produced under stress conditions of plant cells. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) catalyzes the first step in the AOS scavenging system. The responses of SOD genes to environmental stresses were analyzed in rice seedlings by the treatments of drought, salinity and chilling. The expressions of abscisic acid (ABA)-inducible genes, Mn-SOD gene (sodA1) and one of the cytosolic Cu/Zn-SOD genes (sodCc2), were strongly induced by the treatment of drought and salinity. While Fe-SOD gene (sodB) and the other cytosolic Cu/Zn-SOD gene (sodCc1) were also induced by ABA. However the mRNA level of sodB was decreased by drought treatment, and sodCc1 gene was not induced by drought and salinity treatments. Plastidic Cu/Zn-SOD gene (sodCp) quickly responded to salinity treatment in the light but not in the dark. In the treatment with hydrogen peroxide, sodCp gene was strongly induced shortly after the treatment. These results suggested that phytohormone and AOSs are associated with the regulation of SOD genes under environmental stresses.
10694698	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method has been developed for the determination of saccharides in sake, an alcoholic beverage brewed from rice. Saccharides in sake were separated on a normal phase (carbamoyl bonded silica) column using a linear gradient elution of water in acetonitrile. Seven saccharides, glucose, maltose, isomaltose, maltotriose, panose, isomaltotriose and ethyl alpha-D-glucoside, were determined by a polarized photometric detector. Unidentified peaks suggesting saccharides with polymerization degrees over 4 were also observed. The proposed method did not require any sample clean-up treatment. As an application, saccharide compositions in various kinds of sake were compared.
10695281	A nutritious diet is important for recovery during illnesses. Dietary advice by physicians and consumption of food by the patients are often based upon their hot and cold concepts and beliefs about various foods rather than on scientific basis. To look at the food-advising behaviour of physicians during illnesses and to know the maternal concepts about various foods being hot or cold. A questionnaire was served to the physicians participating in a continuous medical education session held at the Aga Khan University and Hospital, asking them to write the foods they advise or restrict during different illnesses such as fever, jaundice etc. Mothers of sick children suffering from diarrhea and other illnesses were also interviewed to know their concepts about various foods. Six (10%) out of sixty physicians believed in hot and cold concepts of the food. A variety of common foods were either restricted or strongly recommended by 10% to 50% of these physicians without any scientific basis, 23% physicians restricted fatty foods in jaundice, 17% physicians restricted in cough and cold. Although the interviewed mothers believed in hot-cold concepts of food but 55-63% of them were not sure what is meant by hot or cold food. In spite of that 70-80% of these mothers classified chicken, meat, egg, brinjal, masoor and mangoes are hot foods and rice, yogurt, moong, banana and orange as cold foods. Hot-Cold concept of food exists not only in mothers but also in physicians. Proper education regarding food intake is mandatory for both mothers and physicians to ascertain adequate intake of calories during sickness.
10695417	Diabetic gastroparesis is a common complication seen in 20-50% of patients due to autonomic neuropathy involving vagal supply. Cisapride, a specific gastrointestinal cholinomimetic agent may thus be effective. Fifty-one diabetic patients (age 12-65 years) of disease duration > 5 years were assessed for symptomatic gastroparesis, other diabetic complications and glycemic control. Gastric emptying time (GET) was estimated using a solid meal method (99mTc labeled rice based idli) and patients randomized to receive either cisapride or placebo for a period of 2 weeks. Cisapride was administered in a dose of 10 mg TID. GET and symptom scores were reassessed on the therapy after 2 weeks. Twenty nine of 51 (56.8%) patients had gastroparesis. Mean GET in the gastroparesis group was 141 +/- 66 minutes compared to 24.53 +/- 10 minutes in the non gastroparesis group (p < 0.01). GET decreased by 72% amongst the patients who received cisapride compared to 23% in the placebo group (p < 0.001). Symptom scores also improved in the cisapride group; no adverse effects were noted. Cisapride improves the symptom score and the solid gastric emptying time in patients suffering from diabetic gastroparesis.
10695792	A questionnaire survey with parasitological study was carried out on the inhabitants of 4 villages in Barru district, Sulawesi, Indonesia from 1994 to 1995. The questionnaire dealt with life style and sanitary conditions. In 482 houses in the 4 villages, interviews for the items of the questionnaire were conducted with the owner, housekeeper and children of the same family. In Pancana and Lalolang, 37.7% and 50% respectively of man inhabitants surveyed were fishermen, while in Lompo Riaja and Pattappa, 38.6% and 65.5% respectively were farmers. The highest proportion of official workers was 33.7% in Lompo Riaja. Educational level was low; 88.4% in Pancana, 90.4% in Lalolang, 62.1% in Lompo Riaja and 91.2% in Pattappa had elementary or below elementary school education. In Lompo Riaja, 30.8% of the inhabitants graduated from senior high school or university. The percentage of families having their own latrine was 30.3% in Pancana, 13.2% in Lalolang, 31.9% in Pattapa and 60% in Lompo Riaja. The people without latrines usually defecated in rice fields, seaside or riverside. A total of 654 fecal samples was examined by the modified Kato-Katz thick smear method. Five nematode species, Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura, Necator americanus, Strongyloides stercoralis and unidentified Rhabditoids of free-living nature were detected. Cestode, Hymenolepis nana infection was confirmed. All the hookworms examined by the modified Harada-Mori culture technic were Necator americanus. Trichuris infection was most common, followed by hookworm and Ascaris infections, both in young (aged 4-14) and older (aged over 15) age groups. The prevalence of hookworm infection was significantly higher in males than in females of older age. Among the older age group, the prevalence of Trichuris infection was significantly lower in Lompo Riaja, while hookworm infection was the highest in Pattappa. Among all the inhabitants examined for parasite infection, 17.4% had 3 kinds of nematode, Ascaris, Trichuris and hookworm. However, egg counts revealed that most of the inhabitants with Trichuris or hookworm had light infections. The inhabitants with higher education background had significantly lower infection rates of Ascaris and Trichuris. The prevalence of hookworm infection was not significantly different between the inhabitants owning latrine and without it, but the prevalence of Ascaris and Trichuris, differed significantly.
10696727	Wild rice grain samples from various parts of the world have been found to have elevated concentrations of heavy metals, raising concern for potential effects on human health. It was hypothesized that wild rice from north-central Wisconsin could potentially have elevated concentrations of some heavy metals because of possible exposure to these elements from the atmosphere or from water and sediments. In addition, no studies of heavy metals in wild rice from Wisconsin had been performed, and a baseline study was needed for future comparisons. Wild rice plants were collected from four areas in Bayfield, Forest, Langlade, Oneida, Sawyer and Wood Counties in September, 1997 and 1998 and divided into four plant parts for elemental analyses: roots, stems, leaves and seeds. A total of 194 samples from 51 plants were analyzed across the localities, with an average of 49 samples per part depending on the element. Samples were cleaned of soil, wet digested, and analyzed by ICP for Ag, As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Mg, Pb, Se and Zn. Roots contained the highest concentrations of Ag, As, Cd, Cr, Hg, Pb, and Se. Copper was highest in both roots and seeds, while Zn was highest just in seeds. Magnesium was highest in leaves. Seed baseline ranges for the 10 elements were established using the 95% confidence intervals of the medians. Wild rice plants from northern Wisconsin had normal levels of the nutritional elements Cu, Mg and Zn in the seeds. Silver, Cd, Hg, Cr, and Se were very low in concentration or within normal limits for food plants. Arsenic and Pb, however, were elevated and could pose a problem for human health. The pathway for As, Hg and Pb to the plants could be atmospheric.
10697868	It is well known that 'in many instances the rice agrosystem perfectly fits the ecological requirements of pathogens or vectors' and in fact 'malaria, schistosomiasis and Japanese encephalitis are important vector-borne diseases associated with rice production in developing countries' (IRRI, 1987). In spite of these fears, rice cultivation has been on the increase in the African region in response to demographic and economic pressures. However, although rice fields provide suitable breeding places for Anopheles mosquitoes and rice cultivation leads to an increase in the biting rates, the species which are adapted to these sites are not the same in all parts of Africa. Several examples illustrate this phenomenon: An. funestus in the rice fields of Madagascar, An. pharoensis in saline water rice fields in the delta of the Senegal river, An. arabiensis in northern Cameroon and Burundi, An. gambiae Mopti form in the Kou Valley (Burkina Faso) and An. gambiae Savanna form in the rice fields of Kafine near Bouak (Cte d'Ivoire). The vectorial capacities of these species are not the same and malaria inoculation rates are not necessarily increased in the riceland agroecosystem. The consequences for malaria of introducing rice cultivation depend on the situation before its introduction: it could be worsened in unstable malaria areas but not in stable malaria areas. Therefore, sound epidemiological and entomological knowledge are needed before causing any environmental modifications for agricultural purposes and there should be regular monitoring to avoid any outbreak.
10698766	Infection of cereal grains with Fusarium species can cause contamination with mycotoxins that affect human and animal health. To determine the potential for mycotoxin contamination, we isolated Fusarium species from samples of rice seeds that were collected in 1997 on farms in the foothills of the Nepal Himalaya. The predominant Fusarium species in surface-disinfested seeds with husks were species of the Gibberella fujikuroi complex, including G. fujikuroi mating population A (anamorph, Fusarium verticillioides), G. fujikuroi mating population C (anamorph, Fusarium fujikuroi), and G. fujikuroi mating population D (anamorph, Fusarium proliferatum). The widespread occurrence of mating population D suggests that its role in the complex symptoms of bakanae disease of rice may be significant. Other common species were Gibberella zeae (anamorph, Fusarium graminearum) and Fusarium semitectum, with Fusarium acuminatum, Fusarium anguioides, Fusarium avenaceum, Fusarium chlamydosporum, Fusarium equiseti, and Fusarium oxysporum occasionally present. Strains of mating population C produced beauvericin, moniliformin, and gibberellic acid, but little or no fumonisin, whereas strains of mating population D produced beauvericin, fumonisin, and, usually, moniliformin, but no gibberellic acid. Some strains of G. zeae produced the 8-ketotrichothecene nivalenol, whereas others produced deoxynivalenol. Despite the occurrence of fumonisin-producing strains of mating population D, and of 8-ketotrichothecene-producing strains of G. zeae, Nepalese rice showed no detectable contamination with these mycotoxins. Effective traditional practices for grain drying and storage may prevent contamination of Nepalese rice with Fusarium mycotoxins.
10699589	The molting hormonal activity of methoxyfenozide (RH-2485), tebufenozide (RH-5992), five analogs with various alkyl groups, and 18 acyl analogs was measured by using cultured integument of rice stem borers, Chilo suppressalis Walker. The hormonal activity of methoxyfenozide was remarkably high (EC(50) = 1.1 x 10(-9) M), being equivalent to that of tebufenozide (RH-5992). The hormonal activity of several tebufenozide analogs with varying alkyl groups such as CH(3), n-C(3)H(7), i-C(3)H(7), n-C(4)H(9) and n-C(5)H(11) at the para-position of the benzene ring furthest from the tert-butyl group was lower than that of tebufenozide (alkyl group is C(2)H(5)). The activity decreased to varying degrees as a result of replacement of the 3,5-dimethylphenyl moiety of tebufenozide with either a phenyl, naphthyl, or cyclohexyl group. Both 1- and 2-naphthyl derivatives were very active (EC(50) = 4.3 x 10(-8) M and 3.2 x 10(-8) M, respectively) without any significant difference between them. The activity of the 1-cyclohexenyl analog (EC(50) = 1.0 x 10(-7) M) was about 40x that of the corresponding 3-cyclohexenyl analog (EC(50) = 4.4 x 10(-6) M), but 1/100 that of tebufenozide. The activity varied parabolically with respect to the molecular hydrophobicity, and decreased with longer acyl moieties.
10700535	To verify whether malnourished inpatients receiving a typical Brazilian diet meet their food requirements. Thirty-five consecutive surgical and medical hospitalized adults, able to feed themselves, received rice and beans based diets for 3 consecutive days. All served food was weighed before and after the meals. Nutrient intake was determined and results compared to American Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDA). Malnutrition was defined by the presence of at least one of these criteria: body mass index &lE 18.5 kg/m(2); height-creatinine index < 70%; or albumin level < 3. 5 g/dl. Malnourished and non-malnourished patients were paired in relation to age, gender, diagnoses and clinical parameters. Despite showing distinct anthropometric parameters and laboratory data, malnourished patients ingested enough quantities of food and met or exceeded RDA for energy and other nutrients. Clinically-stable malnourished inpatients, supplied with rice- and beans based diets have adequate energy and nutrient intake, the same occurring for non-malnourished ones.
10701113	Drought is the major abiotic stress limiting rice (Oryza sativa) production and yield stability in rainfed lowland and upland ecosystems. Root systems play an important role in drought resistance. Incorporation of root selection criteria in drought resistance improvement is difficult due to lack of reliable and efficient screening techniques. Using a wax-petrolatum layer system simulated to compacted soil layers, root traits were evaluated in a doubled haploid (DH) population derived from the cross between 'IR64' and 'Azucena'. Twelve putative QTLs (quantitative trait loci) were detected by interval mapping comprising four QTLs for root-penetration ability, four QTLs for root thickness, two QTLs for penetrated root number, and two QTLs for total root number. These QTLs individually explained 8.4% to 16.4% of the phenotypic variation. No QTL was detected for maximum penetrated root length by interval mapping. One QTL located between RG104 and RG348 was found to influence both root-penetration ability and root thickness. QTLs for root-penetration ability and root thickness were compared across two populations, 'IR64'-'Azucena' and 'CO39'-'Moroberekan', and different testing conditions. The identified consistent QTLs could be used for marker-assisted selection for deep and thick roots with high root-penetration ability in rice.
10701130	The wheat homoeologous Group 5 chromosomes were characterized physically in terms of rice linkage blocks using a deletion mapping approach. All three chromosomes, 5A, 5B, and 5D, were shown to have a similar structure, apart from the 4A-5A translocation on the distal end of chromosome arm 5AL. The physical mapping of rice markers on the deletion lines revealed that the whole of rice chromosome 9 is syntenous to a large block, proximal to the centromere, on the long arm. Likewise, a small segment of the distal end of the long arm showed conserved synteny with the distal one-third end of the long arm of rice chromosome 3. In between those conserved regions, there is a region on the long arm of the Group 5 chromosomes which shows broken synteny. The proximal part of the short arms of the Group 5 chromosomes showed conserved synteny with a segment of the short arm of rice chromosome 11 and the distal ends showed conserved synteny with a segment of rice chromosome 12. The physical locations of flowering time genes (Vrn and earliness per se) and the gene for grain hardness (Ha) on the Group 5 chromosomes were determined. These results indicate that comparative mapping using the deletion mapping approach is useful in the study of genome relationships, the physical location of genes, and can determine the appropriate gene cloning strategy.
10701184	Fumonisin B1 (FB1) is the most abundant of a series of sphingosine analog mycotoxins produced by the fungus Fusarium moniliforme, a ubiquitous contaminant of stored corn (maize) worldwide. FB1 exhibits a variety of biological activities including phytotoxicity, which is of particular interest for its potential role as a virulence factor to facilitate invasion of plant tissues by the fungus. Droplets of FB1 solution applied to the leaf surface of jimsonweed, black nightshade, and susceptible tomatoes caused necrosis, growth inhibition, and death. With Arabidopsis thaliana grown on agar plates, an IC50 (concentration causing half maximal phytotoxicity) of less than 1 ppm was observed. [3H]FB1 was prepared by biosynthetic incorporation of commercially-available radiolabeled presumptive precursors into the toxin in rice medium solid cultures of F. moniliforme JW#1. The labeled toxin produced by incorporation of [9,10(-3)H]palmitate induced phytotoxic symptoms identical to unlabeled material, indicating it had full biological activity. The area of necrosis on treated leaves was similar in light and dark treated plants. Using liquid scintillation counting to quantify radioactivity in excised plant parts, over 95% of the [3H]FB1 radioactivity applied to leaves of light or dark-treated plants was recovered from the treated leaf. When [3H]FB1 was applied to a wound site on target plants, severe damage occurred at the site of FB1 application and in tissue above the site. These results indicate that FB1 applied to intact surfaces of target plants exhibits primarily contact activity. Translocation of FB1 is limited, occurring only when FB1 is applied to a wound site, and it results in damage to tissue above the point of application, indicating that FB1 is xylem mobile.
10704413	Studies of floral organ development in two dicotyledonous plants, Arabidopsis thaliana and Antirrhinum majus, have shown that three sets of genes (A, B and C) can pattern sepals, petals, stamens and carpels [1] [2]. Mechanisms that define boundaries between these floral whorls are unclear, however. The Arabidopsis gene SUPERMAN (SUP), which encodes a putative transcription factor, maintains the boundary between stamens and carpels [3] [4] [5], possibly by regulating cell proliferation. By overexpressing SUP cDNA in rice, we examined whether its effects on whorl boundaries are conserved in a divergent monocotyledonous species. High-level ectopic SUP expression in transgenic rice resulted in juvenile death or dwarf plants with decreased axillary growth. Plants with lower levels of SUP RNA were vegetatively normal, but the flowers showed ubiquitous ventral carpel expansion. This was often coupled with reduced stamen number, or occurrence of third-whorl stamen-carpel mosaic organs. Additionally, proliferation of second-whorl ventral cells produced adventitious lodicules, and flowers lost the asymmetry that is normally inherent to this whorl. We predict that SUP is a conserved regulator of floral whorl boundaries and that it affects cell proliferation.
10706540	One of the many forms that biological warfare may take is the targeting of major food crops. In a poor country where millions of citizens depend on staple crops such as rice, an act of bioterrorism that destroys the crop would create a famine, resulting not only in malnutrition and starvation but also in reduced immune resistance to a range of common illnesses. To reduce the potential of deliberate introductions of crop pathogens as acts of terrorism, researchers must be able to "fingerprint" pathogens at the molecular level and discriminate between naturally occurring and deliberately introduced outbreaks. Several domestic and international surveillance, tracking, and reporting efforts are under way.
10707343	Pearl millet and sorghum offer a cheap source of energy compared to wheat and rice and are widely consumed by rural communities in many parts of the world. Due to the low consumption of vegetables and animal foods, millets also are the major suppliers of micronutrients especially for low-income groups. It is of prime importance to study how millets perform in terms of bioavailable contents of trace metals. Investigations were carried out using weanling mice which offer a model for the initial testing of bioavailability of trace metals before human trials. Four isocaloric diets differing only in the type of cereal, i.e. pearl millet, sorghum, wheat and rice, were prepared representing habitual dietary patterns observed by National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau (NNMB) of India. Mice were allocated randomly to 4 groups of 8 mice each, and housed individually in metal free metabolic cages. A fifth group of 8 mice fed a balanced synthetic diet served as control. All the groups were fed ad libitum. The absorption of zinc and iron averaged for 3 periods of 5 days each was significantly higher for the wheat and pearl millet group than for the other 2 experimental groups (p < 0.05), as were also the levels of liver zinc and iron. The weight gain was also highest (6.9 +/- 1.2 g) in the pearl millet group as compared to sorghum (1.58 +/- 0.59 g), wheat (1.66 +/- 1.27 g) and rice (-0.72 +/- 0.62 g) groups. The levels of liver copper were comparable in all the 5 groups. These results further confirm our earlier in vitro results indicating the superiority of pearl millet but not sorghum in bioavailability of zinc and iron.
10707359	A resistance (R) gene-rich 2S chromosomal segment from Triticum ventricosum contains a cereal cyst nematode (CCN; Heterodera avenae) R gene locus CreX and a closely linked group of genes (Sr38, Yr17, and Lr37) that confer resistance to stem rust (Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici), stripe rust (P. striiformis f. sp. tritici), and leaf rust (P. recondita f. sp. tritici) when introgressed into wheat. The 2S chromosomal segment from T. ventricosum is further delineated in translocations onto chromosome 2A of bread wheat, where the rust genes are retained but not the CreX gene. Using these critical genetic stocks, we have isolated family members of R gene analogs that are associated with either the 2S segment from T. ventricosum carrying the CreX locus or the rust genes. Derivatives of the Cre3 candidate R gene sequence and a rice (Oryza sativa) R gene analog that mapped to the 2S homologous chromosome groups in wheat were used to isolate related gene sequences from T. ventricosum that contain a nucleotide binding site-leucine rich repeat domain. The potential of these gene sequences as entry points for isolating candidate genes or gene family members of the CreX or rust genes and their further applications to plant breeding are discussed.
10712532	Os-GRF1 (Oryza sativa-GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR1) was identified in a search for genes that are differentially expressed in the intercalary meristem of deepwater rice (Oryza sativa L.) internodes in response to gibberellin (GA). Os-GRF1 displays general features of transcription factors, contains a functional nuclear localization signal, and has three regions with similarities to sequences in the database. One of these regions is similar to a protein interaction domain of SWI2/SNF2, which is a subunit of a chromatin-remodeling complex in yeast. The two other domains are novel and found only in plant proteins of unknown function. To study its role in plant growth, Os-GRF1 was expressed in Arabidopsis. Stem elongation of transformed plants was severely inhibited, and normal growth could not be recovered by the application of GA. Our results indicate that Os-GRF1 belongs to a novel class of plant proteins and may play a regulatory role in GA-induced stem elongation.
10712549	To elucidate the mechanism of internodal elongation in rice (Oryza sativa L.), we analyzed genes encoding xyloglucan endotransglycosylase (XET), a cell wall-loosening enzyme essential for cell elongation. Four rice XET-related (XTR) genes, OsXTR1, OsXTR2, OsXTR3, and OsXTR4, were isolated and their expression patterns in rice plants determined. The expression of the four XTR genes showed different patterns of organ specificity and responses to several plant hormones. OsXTR1 and OsXTR3 were up-regulated by gibberellin and brassinosteroids, whereas OsXTR2 and OsXTR4 showed no clear response to these hormones. Expression of the four XTR genes was also investigated in elongating internodes at different developmental stages. OsXTR1 and OsXTR3 were preferentially expressed in the elongating zone of internodes, while OsXTR2 and OsXTR4 were expressed in nodes and in the divisional and elongating zones of internodes. In three genetic mutants with abnormal heights, the expression of OsXTR1 and OsXTR3 correlated with the height of the mutants, whereas no such correlation was observed for OsXTR2 and OsXTR4. Based on these observations, we discuss the roles that OsXTR1 and OsXTR3 may play in internodal elongation in rice.
10712614	A cDNA with homology to fatty acid desaturases was selected by searching the cDNA data bank of Dictyostelium discoideum (http://www. csm.biol.tsukuba.ac.jp/cDNAproject.html) with conserved histidine box motifs. Using this sequence, genomic DNA encoding the Delta5 desaturase was amplified from the genomic DNA of D. discoideum, and its desaturase activity was confirmed by the overexpression mutation in D. discoideum and the gain-of-function mutation in yeast. The cloned cDNA is 1565 nucleotides in length, and the deduced amino-acid sequence comprised 467 amino-acid residues containing an N-terminal cytochrome b5 domain that shared 43% identity with cytochrome b5 of Oryza sativa. The whole sequence was 42% identical to the Delta5 desaturase of Mortierella alpina. This desaturase is a novel member of the cytochrome b5-containing Delta5 fatty acid desaturase. As we have already reported one other Delta5 desaturase in Dictyostelium, this organism is the first to be confirmed as having two functional Delta5 fatty acid desaturase genes. The substrate specificities of the two functional Delta5 desaturases of D. discoideum were also examined.
10712951	The International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP) involves researchers from ten countries who are working to completely and accurately sequence the rice genome within a short period. Sequencing uses a map-based clone-by-clone shotgun strategy; shared bacterial artificial chromosome/P1-derived artificial chromosome libraries have been constructed from Oryza sativa ssp. japonica variety 'Nipponbare'. End-sequencing, fingerprinting and marker-aided PCR screening are being used to make sequence-ready contigs. Annotated sequences are immediately released for public use and are made available with supplemental information at each IRGSP member's website. The IRGSP works to promote the development of rice and cereal genomics in addition to producing genome sequence data.
10712952	Their small sizes have meant that the Arabidopsis and rice genomes are the best-studied of all plant genomes. Although even closely related plant species can show large variations in genome size, extensive genome colinearity has been established at the genetic level and recently also at the gene level. This allows the transfer of information and resources assembled for rice and Arabidopsis to be used in the genome analysis of many other plants.
10713221	The extracellular form of cellulosome-type multienzyme complex of thermophilic Bacteroides sp. strain P-1 which was isolated from the anaerobic digester, is described. Multienzyme complex was isolated from the culture supernatant by an adsorption-desorption affinity chromatography on microcrystalline cellulose. The isolated multienzyme complex was found to form a complex that exhibited a high molecular weight (estimated at more than 1400 kDa) and was quite stable, requiring strong denaturing condition for dissociation. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate resolved multienzyme complex into at least 12 subunits with the molecular weight range of 49 to 209 kDa, respectively. The isolated multienzyme complex showed cellulose-binding ability, cellulase and xylanase activities and effected the hydrolysis of crystalline cellulose and lignocellulosic materials in the form of corncob, corn hull, rice straw, and sugarcane bagasse.
10713441	This paper reports isolation and properties of a rice gene, OsGAI, a putative homolog of the GAI of Arabidopsis thaliana. OsGAI encodes a polypeptide of 625 amino acids, which shows 53-55% identity to GAI and RGA from A. thaliana, and 85% identity to wheat rht-D1a and maize d8. Genomic DNA blot analysis indicated the OsGAI to be a single-copy gene in the rice genome. RNA blot hybridization showed that OsGAI transcripts increased within 6h upon GA(3) but not ABA application. This GA-induced increment in OsGAI transcripts did not require de novo protein synthesis. High levels of OsGAI transcripts were detected in nodes, internodes, leaf sheaths and ears of adult plants and leaf sheaths of young seedlings, where GA enhances cell elongation and division. Transiently expressed OsGAI-GFP fusion protein located to the nucleus in onion epidermal cells. Transactivation assays clearly indicated that OsGAI protein is a transcriptional activator or a coactivator.
10713457	Tobamoviral vectors have been developed for the heterologous expression of glycoproteins in plants. The rice alpha-amylase gene (OS103) was placed under the transcriptional control of a tobamovirus subgenomic promoter in a RNA viral vector. One to two weeks after inoculation, transfected Nicotiana benthamiana plants accumulated glycosylated alpha-amylase to levels of at least 5% total soluble protein. The 46kDa recombinant enzyme was purified, and its structural and biological properties were analyzed. Post-translational modifications of the secreted protein were compared to rice alpha-amylase expressed in amylolytic strains of Pichia pastoris and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Endo-H analysis revealed that the alpha-amylase was moderately glycosylated in transfected plants and hyperglycosylated in yeast.
10713739	To establish a general view of food habits in Thailand, and to make a quantitative assessment of rice dependency of Thai people. Cross-sectional study. Community. 52 non-smoking and non-habitually drinking adult women in Bangkok participated in the study. The participants offered 24 h food duplicates and peripheral blood samples, and underwent clinical examination including anthropometry. The duplicates were subjected to nutritional evaluation taking advantage of the Thai food composition tables (FCTs), and analyzed for eight nutrient elements by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The participants took 1630 kcal from 55 g protein (63% from animal sources), 57 g lipid (mostly from vegetable oil), and 224 g carbohydrate (60% from rice) daily. Nutrient intake at lunch was as large as that at dinner. About a half of the women had insufficient energy intake (ie <80% RDA) whereas 4% had an excess (>120%). Protein intake was sufficient in most cases, whereas lipid intake was in excess in more than a half of the women. Ca, Fe, Mg, Zn and possibly P intakes were below the RDA values in many participants. FCT-based estimates agreed well with the ICP-MS measures in cases of Fe and Ca but tended to be greater than the measures by 50% with regard to P. Lunch as substantial as dinner for Thai urbanites. There was a marked dependency on rice as an energy source. Whereas protein intake is generally sufficient, the intake of Ca (and to a lesser extent Fe) was insufficient in a majority of the study participants. Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance, Japan; the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the government of Japan.
10714988	We have cloned a hrp gene cluster from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Bacteria with mutations in the hrp region have reduced growth in rice leaves and lose the ability to elicit a hypersensitive response (HR) on the appropriate resistant cultivars of rice and the nonhost plant tomato. A 12,165-bp portion of nucleotide sequence from the presumed left end and extending through the hrpB operon was determined. The region was most similar to hrp genes from Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria and Ralstonia solanacearum. Two new hrp-associated loci, named hpa1 and hpa2, were located beyond the hrpA operon. The hpa1 gene encoded a 13-kDa glycine-rich protein with a composition similar to those of harpins and PopA. The product of hpa2 was similar to lysozyme-like proteins. Perfect PIP boxes were present in the hrpB and hpa1 operons, while a variant PIP box was located upstream of hpa2. A strain with a deletion encompassing hpa1 and hpa2 had reduced pathogenicity and elicited a weak HR on nonhost and resistant host plants. Experiments using single mutations in hpa1 and hpa2 indicated that the loss of hpa1 was the principal cause of the reduced pathogenicity of the deletion strain. A 1,519-bp insertion element was located immediately downstream of hpa2. Hybridization with hpa2 indicated that the gene was present in all of the strains of Xanthomonas examined. Hybridization experiments with hpa1 and IS1114 indicated that these sequences were detectable in all strains of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and some other Xanthomonas species.
10715324	A 2.3-centimorgan (cM) segment of rice chromosome 11 consisting of 340 kb of DNA sequence around the alcohol dehydrogenase Adh1 and Adh2 loci was completely sequenced, revealing the presence of 33 putative genes, including several apparently involved in disease resistance. Fourteen of the genes were confirmed by identifying the corresponding transcripts. Five genes, spanning 1.9 cM of the region, cross-hybridized with maize genomic DNA and were genetically mapped in maize, revealing a stretch of colinearity with maize chromosome 4. The Adh1 gene marked one significant interruption. This gene mapped to maize chromosome 1, indicating a possible translocation of Adh1 after the evolutionary divergence leading to maize and sorghum. Several other genes, most notably genes similar to known disease resistance genes, showed no cross-hybridization with maize genomic DNA, suggesting sequence divergence or absence of these sequences in maize, which is in contrast to several other well-conserved genes, including Adh1 and Adh2. These findings indicate that the use of rice as the model system for other cereals may sometimes be complicated by the presence of rapidly evolving gene families and microtranslocations. Seven retrotransposons and eight transposons were identified in this rice segment, including a Tc1/Mariner-like element, which is new to rice. In contrast to maize, retroelements are less frequent in rice. Only 14.4% of this genome segment consist of retroelements. Miniature inverted repeat transposable elements were found to be the most frequently occurring class of repetitive elements, accounting for 18.8% of the total repetitive DNA.
10717321	The potential of anthers from different parts of the panicle to induce callus was investigated with the japonica rice variety Taipei 309. The results showed that the callusing abilities of anthers from different spikelet positions were significantly different. After plating 4483, 4496, 4348 anthers from the basal, middle and top parts, the percentage of anthers forming calli was 20% in the basal part, 12% in the middle part and 8% in the top part. The anthers of basal parts containing pollen at all uninucleate stages, including early, middle and late, showed higher callus induction frequency than those from middle and top parts. The green plantlet regeneration frequencies of top, middle and basal spikelets were around 18% in all three cases. From the results it would appear that anthers from the basal part of the panicle should be used in anther culture of rice in order to obtain higher efficiencies, and thereby optimise the usefulness of this technique in rice breeding programmes.
10717479	A rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nakdong) cDNA clone, Oshsp26, encoding the chloroplast-localized small heat shock protein (smHSP) was isolated. Southern blot analysis of genomic DNA and the result of screening of a cDNA library indicated that the Oshsp26 gene is encoded by a single gene in the rice genome. The Oshsp26 gene was expressed following heat stress: the transcript level was highest when rice leaves were treated at high temperatures for 2h at 42 degrees C, and the transcripts became detectable after 20min and reached a maximum level after 2h. It was also found that the Oshsp26 gene was expressed following oxidative stress even in the absence of heat stress. Treatment of rice plants with methyl viologen (MV) in the light and treatment with hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), either in the light or in the dark, both caused a significant accumulation of the transcripts and the protein. Since MV treatment in the light leads to the generation of H(2)O(2) inside the chloroplast, it is likely that H(2)O(2) by itself acts to induce the expression of the Oshsp26 gene. These results suggest that the chloroplast smHSP plays an important role in protecting the chloroplast against damage caused by oxidative stress as well as by heat stress.
10717650	The mobile proton model was critically evaluated by using purely theoretical models which include quantum mechanical calculations to determine stationary points on the potential energy surface (PES) of a model compound, and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) calculations to determine the rate constants of various processes (conformational changes, proton transfer reactions) which occur during mass analysis of protonated peptides. Extensive mapping of the PES of protonated N-formylglycinamide resulted in various minima which were stabilized by one or more of the following types of interaction: internal hydrogen bond, charge transfer interaction, charge delocalization, and ring formation. The relative energies of most of the investigated minima are less then 20 kcal mol(-1) compared with the most stable species. More importantly, the relative energies of the transition structures connecting these minima are fairly low, allowing facile transitions among the energetically low-lying species. It is demonstrated that a path can be found leading from the energetically most stable species, protonated on an amide oxygen, to the structure from which the energetically most favorable fragmentation occurs. It is also shown that the added proton can sample all protonation sites prior to fragmentation. The RRKM calculations applied the results of ab initio computations (structures, energetics, vibrational frequencies) to the reactions (internal rotations, proton transfers) occurring in protonated N-formylglycinamide, and clearly lend additional evidence to the mobile proton model. Based on the results of the PES search on protonated N-formylglycinamide, we also comment on the mechanism proposed by Arnot et al. (Arnot D, Kottmeier D, Yates N, Shabanowitz J, Hunt D F. 42(nd) ASMS Conference on Mass Spectrometry, 1994; 470) and Reid et al. (Reid G E, Simpson R J, O'Hair R A J. J. Am. Soc. Mass Spectrom. 1998; 9:945) for the formation of b(2)(+) ions. According to the high level ab initio results, the mechanism relying on amide oxygen protonated species seems to be less feasible than the one which involves N-protonated species.
10718575	A non-ionic surfactant (Genapol OX-80) was proposed as a means of reducing destructive crayfish activity in rice. In order to study the toxicity of this product on algae, a test in accordance to the ISO 8692 protocol (1989) was performed. The growth inhibiting effect of the pure formulation of Genapol OX-80 was studied on Selenastrum capricornutum in the concentration range of 0.01-1.0 mg/l. The result indicated a 72 h EC50-value of 0.5 mg/l. The suggested field concentration of approximately 50 mg/l is therefore two orders of magnitude above the algal EC50-value. From our findings it is expected that the impact on the rice field algae will not be negligible.
10720169	Three current equations for estimating iron bioavailability were evaluated, and adjustments were proposed that would allow us to most effectively study iron bioavailability in China. Dietary intake data were obtained from 24-h dietary recalls taken over three consecutive days as part of the third Chinese National Nutrition Survey. Hemoglobin status was measured for 42,606 Chinese adults aged 18-60 y. The mean iron intake was 24.4 mg per capita per day, which was 177% of the Chinese RDA (209% of U.S. RDA). About 18% of the sample was classified as being anemic, indicating a large iron deficiency anemia and iron bioavailability problem in China. A number of methods proposed by World Health Organization and U.S. scholars were examined for adjusting iron bioavailability. Even the methods that consider several iron enhancers and inhibitors did not work adequately for the Chinese diet. The statistical assessment of the fit between iron bioavailability and hemoglobin status provided direction for adjusting the best of these predictive equations. We propose a new predictive approach for iron bioavailability which is more predictive of Chinese iron status. Consideration of additional dietary elements such as rice and bean consumption patterns are important. Our findings provide insight into additional factors which may influence iron bioavailability as well as possible improved methods for estimating the combined effect of multiple dietary factors on iron bioavailability, particularly in a vegetarian diet.
10720786	Vasodilatory effects of aqueous extract of red rice fermented with Monascus ruber IFO32318 were examined on the isolated rat aorta. The water phase of fermented rice with Monascus (WP/FRM, 0.1-10 mg/ml) caused a transient relaxation of the endothelium-intact rat aorta precontracted with norepinephrine (NE, 300 nM). The WP/FRM-induced relaxation was abolished by removal of endothelium or in the presence of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA, 10 microM), a nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor. Neither atropine, a muscarinic receptor antagonist (10 microM), nor indomethacin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor (10 microM), altered the WP/FRM-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation. gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA), one of the principle components of the extract, did not affect the muscle tension of the aorta with intact endothelium. In addition, WP/FRM increased the production of NO in primary cultured endothelial cells from human umbilical vein. The enhanced production of NO by WP/FRM was diminished by pretreatment with L-NNA (10 microM). In conclusion, WP/FRM induces relaxation of rat aorta by releasing NO from endothelium. There seem to be some unknown factor(s) other than acetylcholine (Ach) and GABA, in the aqueous extract of red rice, which stimulate vascular endothelial cells to produce and/or release NO leading to endothelium-dependent relaxation by WP/FRM.
10721138	The objectives of the present study are: (a) to clarify the current levels of environmental exposure to lead (Pb) and cadmium (Cd) in Shaanxi Province in China in comparison with levels in other parts of mainland China; (b) to examine if there is any urban-rural difference in Pb and Cd exposure; and (c) to quantify the role of cereals as the dietary source of environmental exposure to these metals. For this purpose, triplet surveys on lead and cadmium exposure were conducted in the provincial capital of Xian and two farming villages A and B in Shaanxi Province, China in 1997. The grand geometric mean for lead (Pb) intake via foods (Pb-F), Pb in blood (Pb-B) and Pb in urine as corrected for creatinine concentration (Pb-Ucr) were 30 micrograms/day, 33 micrograms/l and 5 micrograms/g creatinine, respectively, with significant differences among the survey sites, e.g. Pb-B being higher in Xian (43 micrograms/l) than in the two villages (38 and 22 micrograms/l). The counterpart values for cadmium (Cd) intake via foods (Cd-F), Cd in blood (Cd-B) and Cd in urine (Cd-Ucr) were 6.1 micrograms/day, 0.46 microgram/l and 2.8 micrograms/g creatinine, respectively, with no substantial inter-survey site difference. Thus, it was possible to conclude that, from comparison with the values reported in 1990s literature, the exposure of Shaanxi people to Pb and Cd is no higher than, and even possibly lower than, the levels reported for people in other parts of mainland China. The exposure to Cd was almost exclusively from foods, whereas the exposure to air-borne Pb was large enough in Xian to explain higher Pb-B and Pb-Ucr than the level in Village B despite lower Pb-F in Xian than in Village B. Cereals (wheat, rice, maize and foxtail millet) contributed 26 and 84% of dietary Pb and Cd intake, respectively.
10722105	A method for the analysis of type A trichothecenes T-2 toxin, HT-2 toxin, neosolaniol and diacetoxyscirpenol by high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection using coumarin-3-carbonyl chloride has been developed. Different parameters concerning the analytical procedure such as stability of both the reagent and derivatised analytes, time and temperature of the derivatisation reaction, were studied and optimised. Three different clean-up procedures (solid-phase extraction with silica gel or C-18 cartridges, and liquid-liquid partition between toluene and dihydrogen phosphate buffer) were tested in order to remove the excess reagent peaks. The last procedure gave the best results when the buffer pH was 3-5.5, and is therefore recommended. Separations were performed on a stainless steel LiChrospher 100 C-18 reversed-phase column with pre-column of the same phase. The mobile phase was acetonitrile/water (65:35, v/v) containing 0.75% acetic acid at a flow-rate of 1.0 ml/min. The proposed method provides good separation between the four trichothecenes and good reproducibility (RSD of calibration standards <5%). The limits of detection of the studied trichothecenes at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3:1, with an injection volume of 20 microl were 10 ng/g sample for T-2 toxin and about 15 ng/g sample for the remaining mycotoxins. The calibration curve was linear between 10 and 2000 ng for the four trichothecenes assayed. The method was applied to the analysis of these mycotoxins in fungal cultures (corn and rice) of Fusarium sporotrichioides, and is also perfectly suitable for the quantification of type A trichothecenes in contaminated cereals.
10724005	Two novel antifungal antibiotics, PF1163A and B, were isolated from the fermentation broth of Penicillium sp. They were purified from the solid cultures of rice media using ethyl acetate extraction, silica gel and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatographies. PF1163A and B showed potent growth inhibitory activity against pathogenic fungal strain Candida albicans but did not show cytotoxic activity against mammalian cells. These compounds inhibited the ergosterol biosynthesis in Candida albicans.
10725557	Water channel proteins, aquaporins, play a fundamental role in transmembrane water movements in plants. We isolated rice cDNA, rwc1, by screening a rice (Oryza sativa cv. Josaeng Tongil) cDNA library using a conserved motif of aquaporins. Like other aquaporin genes, rwc1 encodes a 290-residue protein with six putative transmembrane domains. The derived amino acid sequence of RWC1 shows high homology with PIP1 (plasma membrane intrinsic protein 1) subfamily members, which suggest it is localized in the plasma membrane. Injection of its cRNA into Xenopus oocytes increased the osmotic water permeability of the oocytes 2-3 times. Northern analysis showed that rice aquaporin genes are expressed in rice seedling leaves and roots, but that it disappeared from the root 6 h after osmotic stress began and that the transcript level remained low for about 24 h, then recovered. The time course of rice aquaporin gene-expression under osmotic stress was correlated with time course of turgor transition in plant. On the other hand, the levels of rice aquaporin gene-transcripts in leaves under chilling and recovery temperature depend on the pretreatment of mannitol for short time. This variation of the transcripts shown that rice aquaporin genes may play an important role in response to water stress-induced chilling tolerance.
10727896	The mannose-specific snowdrop lectin [Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA)] displays toxicity to the rice brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens. A 26kDa GNA-binding polypeptide from N. lugens midgut was identified by lectin blotting and affinity chromatography, and characterized by N-terminal sequencing. This polypeptide is the most abundant binding protein for GNA in the N. lugens midgut. A cDNA (fersub2) encoding this protein was isolated from an N. lugens cDNA library. The deduced amino acid sequence shows significant homology to ferritin subunits from Manduca sexta and other arthropods, plants and vertebrates, and contains a putative N-glycosylation site. Native ferritin was purified from whole insects as a protein of more than 400kDa in size and characterized biochemically. Three subunits of 20, 26 and 27kDa were released from the native complex. The 26kDa subunit binds GNA, and its N-terminal sequence was identical to that of fersub2. A second cDNA (fersub1), exhibiting strong homology with dipteran ferritin, was identified as an abundant cDNA in an N. lugens midgut-specific cDNA library, and could encode the larger ferritin subunit. The fersub1 cDNA carries a stem-loop structure (iron-responsive element) upstream from the start codon, similar to structures that have been shown to play a role in the control of ferritin synthesis in other insects.
10728183	An adequate diet provides good metabolic control in diabetics. Since 1981 when Jenkins showed that complex carbohydrates are digested more slowly and raise blood glucose less than simple sugars, many studies have been performed in this field. In this study, seven kinds of carbohydrate-rich food were compared with glucose in 52 Type 2 diabetic patients and 31 normal volunteers. The subject consumed either macaroni, white rice, potatoes, tarhana soup (tarhana includes wheat flour, yoghurt, tomato and green pepper), noodle soup, white or whole wheat bread, or glucose at one-week intervals after an overnight fast. The glycaemic index (GI) of each food was calculated from the area under its glycaemic response curve (AUC) expressed as a percentage of the mean response to glucose. The results showed that the foods ranked from the highest to the lowest GI as follows: white bread; whole wheat bread; macaroni; tarhana soup; white rice; potatoes; noodle soup.
10731619	The purpose of this study was to determine whether methods used to control swine dysentery (SD), caused by the intestinal spirochaete Brachyspira (Serpulina) hyodysenteriae, would also be effective in controlling porcine intestinal spirochaetosis (PIS) caused by the related spirochaete Brachyspira (Serpulina) pilosicoli. Weaner pigs in Groups I (n=8) and II (n=6) received a standard weaner pig diet based on wheat and lupins, whilst Group III (n=6) received an experimental diet based on cooked white rice and animal protein. Pigs in Group II were vaccinated intramuscularly twice at a 3-week-interval with a formalinised bacterin made from B. pilosicoli porcine strain 95/1000 resuspended in Freund's incomplete adjuvant. Eleven days later pigs in all groups were infected orally with 10(10) cells of strain 95/1000 on three successive days. One control pig in Group I developed acute diarrhoea, and at post-mortem had a severe erosive colitis with end-on attachment of spirochaetes to the colonic epithelium. All other pigs developed transient mild diarrhoea and had moderate patchy colitis at post-mortem 3 weeks later. B. pilosicoli was isolated from the faeces of all pigs, except for one fed rice, and was isolated from the mesenteric nodes of three pigs from Group I and from one vaccinated pig in Group II. Consumption of the rice-based diet, but not vaccination, delayed and significantly (p<0.001) reduced the onset of faecal excretion of B. pilosicoli after experimental challenge. Vaccination induced a primary and secondary serological response to B. pilosicoli, as measured using sonicated whole cells of strain 95/1000 as an ELISA plate coating antigen. Antibody titres in the vaccinated pigs then declined, despite intestinal colonisation by B. pilosicoli. Both groups of unvaccinated animals also failed to develop a post-infection increase in circulating antibody titres.
1073210	Variations with regard to salt tolerance were observed in rice varieties, Blue bonnet, IR-8, Jhona-349, and Magnolia. Crosses (F1) between relatively salt-resistant (Jhona-349) and salt-sensitive (Magnolia) varieties were highly resistant to salinity. The F2 population resulted in some salt-resistant combinations. In the F3 and F4 populations, some desirable salt-resistant progenies were selected. Results obtained suggest that selection for salt tolerance may be possible within hybrid populations.
10732669	Proteins of the closely related homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) families I and II in plants are putative transcription factors that interact with similar pseudopalindromic DNA recognition sites. We have previously described the Oshox1 gene from rice, which encodes an HD-Zip II protein. To identify further rice HD-Zip proteins, one-hybrid screens were performed in yeast strains containing a HIS3 reporter gene with upstream HD-Zip recognition sites. This resulted in the isolation of six new cDNAs encoding HD-Zip proteins belonging to family I (Oshox4, -5, -6) or family II (Oshox2, -3, -7). In transient assays, using rice suspension-cultured cells transformed by particle bombardment, we showed previously that Oshox1 can transcriptionally repress the activity of reporter gene constructs with upstream HD-Zip binding sites. Here, we confirm the repression properties of Oshox1 by showing that the repression function can be conferred on a heterologous DNA-binding domain. This portable functional domain (residues 1-155) is located proximal to the HD-Zip domain. In yeast, the same region of the Oshox1 protein was found to confer transcriptional activation instead of repression, pointing to the possibility that cell type-specific factors may determine the functional properties of the Oshox1 protein in rice. Like Oshox1, another HD-Zip family II protein (Oshox3) was also found to function as a transcriptional repressor in rice cells. In contrast, two HD-Zip I family proteins (Oshox4 and -5) appeared to act as activators in both rice and yeast cells. Results of two-hybrid assays and electrophoretic mobility shift assays strongly suggest that all HD-Zip proteins of families I and II can form homodimers and also heterodimers with all HD-Zip proteins of the same family. Heterodimerization across the HD-Zip families I and II apparently does not to occur.
10732679	We investigated transgene silencing in a line of rice plants that carries a single-copy 6.6-kb transgenic locus comprising three heterologous transgenes: bar, hpt and gusA. We identified at least three distinct types of silencing effects associated with different methylation patterns, including a novel form of transcriptional silencing involving methylation of cytosine residues only at non-conventional acceptor sites in the coding region. Silencing arose de novo in individual R1, R2 and R3 plants despite the stability of the transgenic locus, although the basic structure of the locus, transgene dosage and position effects remained constant within the line. We found that different silencing effects could occur concurrently in adjacent heterologous transgenes in the same plant, with no evidence for spreading of silenced states or methylation patterns from one transgene to another.
10732686	Genetic mapping of centromeres has been a challenge for plant geneticists. The objective of this study was to develop a new strategy for determining the locations of centromeric regions on genetic maps by mapping centromere-associated sequences, to make it possible to define the centromeric region of each chromosome as a single Mendelian locus on the molecular linkage map. Two DNA probes containing sequences specifically associated with the centromeres of grass species were used for genetic mapping. The centromere-associated sequences for all 12 rice chromosomes were mapped on the molecular map with either or both of the probes, and flanking molecular markers on one or both sides were localized 0 to 8 cM away. The map locations of the centromere-associated markers corresponded very well with the positions of centromeric regions determined previously using trisomic analyses for 11 of the 12 chromosomes. The precise mapping of the centromeric regions using these probes makes the molecular map a more complete and informative tool for genomic studies, which will facilitate studies of the structure and function of the rice centromeres. The simplicity of this technique, together with the fact that these probes are also associated with the centromeric regions in other grass species, may provide a general approach to the mapping of centromeric regions in the genomes of other cereal crops.
10734215	An in vitro assay system to detect tyrosylprotein sulfotransferase (TPST) activity of higher plant cells was established, using synthetic oligopeptides based on the deduced amino acid sequence of a phytosulfokine-alpha (PSK-alpha) precursor. TPST activity was found in microsomal membrane fractions of rice, asparagus and carrot cells and it was confirmed that acidic amino acid residues adjacent to the tyrosine residues of acceptor peptides were essential to the sulfation reaction. The asparagus TPST exhibited a broad pH optimum of 7.0-8.5, required manganese ions for maximal activity and appeared to be a membrane-bound protein localized in the Golgi apparatus. These enzymes should be defined as a new class of plant sulfotransferases that catalyze tyrosine O-sulfation of a PSK-alpha precursor and other unknown proteins.
10736351	Investigations of the effects of glutamic acid or its salts on the flavor, hedonic characteristics or acceptance of foods have emphasized a sodium salt of L-glutamic acid, monosodium glutamate (MSG). Food palatability increased with appropriate concentrations of MSG, and could be represented f(MSG and NaCl) as points on the surface of an elliptic paraboloid. Hedonic effects differed between foods, were a function of concentrations of MSG and other ingredients and did not necessarily become positive when only MSG was added. For example, with boiled or fried rice, ratings were neutral or negative with MSG alone, positive for fried rice with MSG and NaCl, but positive for boiled rice only if soy sauce was also added. A one-dish meal, Chinese noodle, became positive with an appropriate concentration of NaCl plus a MSG-5'ribonucleotide mixture, but not with NaCl alone. Flavor of meat, fish or vegetable stocks containing natural glutamates differed from that of quinine, sucrose, NaCl or acid solutions. Glutamates and free amino acids plus nucleotides were necessary for full boiled potato flavor. Overall, the effects of MSG on foods were different from those of NaCl but often interacted with NaCl, and positive effects were facilitated by low concentrations of 5'-ribonucleotides.
10737010	Diet therapy for patients with chronic renal failure is based on low protein and high energy. To achieve strict diet therapy, it is necessary to use specially formulated low protein foods. Previously, rice with a low content of protein was not available, but recently, a low protein rice (LGC-1: low glutelin content-1) has been developed. LGC-1 was found to have a low content of glutelin in its seed protein compared to other ordinary rice. Glutelin is the major digestive protein in the rice grain. We studied the usefulness of LGC-1 in the diet therapy of patients with chronic renal failure. Twenty-three patients were placed on the low protein diet (0.6-0.9 g/kg/day) during the pre-study period (a mean of 10 months). Subsequently they were followed with the same diet using LGC-1 for the staple foods during the study period (mean of 7 months). Protein intake and the slope of the reciprocal of serum creatinine did not differ between each study period in all patients. Among the 23 patients, 9 consumed rice mainly as the staple food (120-180 g/day as polished rice: rice group), according to the results of a questionnaire. In the rice group, protein intake decreased (from 47 +/- 9 to 42 +/- 9 g/day, p < 0.05), and the slope of the reciprocal of serum creatinine reduced (from -4.59 +/- 4.33 to -1.47 +/- 3.51 x 10(-4) dl/mg/day, p < 0.05) during the study period, compared with the pre-study period. We conclude that LGC-1 is a useful and effective food for a low protein diet in patients with chronic renal failure, especially, for those who consume rice mainly as their staple food.
10737140	We investigated the spatial and temporal expression patterns of two rice calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs), OsCDPK2 and OSCDPK11, using isoform-specific antisera. Bands of the expected molecular sizes for OsCDPK2 (59 kDa) and OsCDPK11 (61 kDa) were detected on western blots. OsCDPK2 and OsCDPK11 mRNA and protein levels increased in unison during flower development. However, at the onset of seed development, the protein expression profiles diverged significantly. OsCDPK2 protein was expressed at low levels during early seed development, but increased to high levels that were maintained in later stages (20 days after fertilisation, DAF). Conversely, OsCDPK11 protein levels were high at the beginning of seed development, but fell rapidly from 10 DAF onwards. This decrease in the level of OsCDPK11 protein was associated with the abundant synthesis of a truncated mRNA species. OsCDPK2 expression was also closely associated with light perception. OsCDPK2 protein was barely detectable in green leaves exposed to light, but levels increased sharply when plants were shifted to darkness. Initially, this increase reflected a rapid elevation in the levels of OsCDPK2 mRNA, which was normally located in the mesophyll. Conversely, OsCDPK11 mRNA and protein levels were unaffected by light. These data strongly indicate that two rice CDPK isoforms have different functions in seed development and in response to light in leaves.
10737204	Chemical investigation of naturally occurring plant growth inhibitors from Rutaceous plants in Thailand led us to identify five 7-methoxycoumarins and one 5,7-dimethoxycoumarin from Murraya paniculata, and six furanocoumarins from Citrus aurantifolia. Of these compounds, murranganon senecioate (1) is a new natural compound found in M. paniculata. Minumicrolin (6) was found to be highly active against the 2nd leaf sheath elongation of rice seedlings.
10737209	Adult females of the white-back planthopper, Sogatella furcifera, showed characteristic behavior of stylet sheath deposit on a parafilm membrane when fed on a 2% aqueous crude rice leaf and stem extract containing 15% sucrose. Subsequent bioassays revealed that the butanol-soluble fraction of the extract was highly active against the insects. When the butanol fraction was chromatographed on an ODS open column and eluted in sequence with a mixture of an increasing concentration of methanol in water, the 40 % methanol fraction was separated as the most active. A further bioassay of the HPLC components in the active fraction revealed that two major components (1 and 3) stimulated the high probing activity of the white-back planthopper only when they were combined. Of the active components, one component (3) was identified to be tricin 5-O-glucoside by spectroscopic analyses.
10738692	Ascorbic acid (AA) was microencapsulated by spray drying, using gum arabic and rice starch as covering materials. The AA was dissolved in solutions of the wall material prior to processing. For the rice starch, gelatin was used as a binding agent and recovery was effected with calcium pectate. The morphology of the materials was analysed by optical and scanning electron microscopy, it thus being possible to verify the formation and evaluate the structural characteristics of the microcapsules. The capsules produced with gum arabic were smaller (d50% = 8.0 microns) and with a multimode particle size distribution, whilst uncovered starch capsules containing 1-2% gelatin presented a distribution mainly in the range of 5-40 microns. The capsules recovered with calcium pectate had average diameters 10-15 times greater than those obtained only by spray drying. The stability of the encapsulated materials was studied at room temperature (RH 60-65%) and at 45 degrees C (RH 60-65% and 90.7%). AA microencapsulated in gum arabic was shown to be as stable as free crystalline AA under environmental conditions, whereas that encapsulated in rice starch was less stable. Increasing the amount of the binding agent gelatin increased the stability of the uncovered starch encapsulated AA. Recovery with calcium pectate notably increased the stability of the starch encapsulated AA, as compared to the uncovered samples.
10743026	In this study, we compared dietary habits of residents in East (N = 76) and West Germany (N = 266) using results obtained in 1992-1993 from a retrospective semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire referring to 1991-1992. Nutrient intakes were calculated based on the German Federal Food Code. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression was used to determine whether dietary intakes varied according to residence in East and West Germany. At the food level, East German subjects reported a higher consumption of bread, spreadable fat, and sausage, whereas West German participants reported a higher intake of fruit, vegetables, and pasta and rice. At the macronutrient level, energy intake did not differ significantly between groups, nor did the percent contribution of protein, carbohydrate, fat, and alcohol to total energy intake. East German participants had a lower total water and fibre intake, the latter significant only after adjustment for confounders. At the micro-nutrient level, East German participants had a higher intake of cobalamin, retinol and retinol-equivalents (but not of beta-carotene). There were no differences in the intake of vitamins C, D, and E between groups. Less salt and more potassium, calcium, magnesium and zinc were consumed by West than by East German subjects. Overall, both groups showed disadvantageous dietary patterns. The results are discussed in the context of an overview of other dietary surveys performed in the two parts of Germany before and after reunification. In general our results are consistent with other observations showing that dietary habits in East Germany rapidly approached those in West Germany after reunification, although some residual differences seemed to persist.
10743047	Check on the sequence alterations of the p53 gene of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in some areas of Guangxi. 40 cases of archival HCC samples were divided into two groups. One includes 26 cases from Fusui--an area notorious for high risk in HCC, AFB1 and HBV; The other includes 14 cases from Yulin where both HCC and HBV were high but AFB1 may be low because rice low in AFB1 was the staple food. Exon 7 were sequenced by DNA direct sequencing. p53 mutational protein and HBsAg were examined by immunostaing. In the Fusui group, 16/26 (61.5%) cases showed mutation at codon 249 third position G to T transversion to form a hot-spot which is generally considered to be caused by AFB1. In the Yulin group, only one single place-Guigang showed p53 mutation clustered at the hot-spot like Fusui in 3/5 cases (60%), while the other cases demonstrated mutational points in various positions. Besides Qidong and South Africa, a third AFB1 high risk area was demonstrated where HCC is accompanied by p53 gene specific mutation.
10743955	Compounds that control rice blast, but not other crop diseases, were selected for testing as inhibitors of trihydroxynaphthalene reductase of the fungal melanin biosynthetic pathway. A potent inhibitor of the enzyme (2) (Ki = 25 nM) was identified. An X-ray structure of the enzyme-NADPH-2 complex was determined at 2.1 A resolution.
10747071	L1s (LINE-1: Long Interspersed Nuclear Element 1) are present in all mammals examined to date. They occur in both placental mammals and marsupials and thus are thought to have been present in the genome prior to the mammalian radiation. This unusual conservation of a transposable element family for over 100 million years has led to speculation that these elements provide an advantage to the genomes they inhabit. We have recently identified a group of South American rodents, including rice rats (Oryzomys), in which L1s appear to be quiescent or extinct. Several observations support this conclusion. First, genomic Southern blot analysis fails to reveal genus-specific bands in Oryzomys. Second, we were unable to find recently inserted elements. Procedures to enrich for young elements did not yield any with an intact open reading frame for reverse transcriptase; all elements isolated had numerous insertions, deletions, and stop codons. Phylogenetic analysis failed to yield species-specific clusters among the L1 elements isolated, and all Oryzomys sequences had numerous private mutations. Finally, in situ hybridization of L1 to Oryzomys chromosomes failed to reveal the characteristic L1 distribution in Oryzomys with either a homologous or heterologous probe. Thus, Oryzomys is a viable candidate for L1 extinction from a mammalian host.
10747072	Two classes of genes were identified in three Gramineae (maize, rice, barley) and six dicots (Arabidopsis, soybean, pea, tobacco, tomato, potato). One class, the GC-rich class, contained genes with no, or few, short introns. In contrast, the GC-poor class contained genes with numerous, long introns. The similarity of the properties of each class, as present in the genomes of maize and Arabidopsis, is particularly remarkable in view of the fact that these plants exhibit large differences in genome size, average intron size, and DNA base composition. The functional relevance of the two classes of genes is stressed by (1) the conservation in homologous genes from maize and Arabidopsis not only of the number of introns and of their positions, but also of the relative size of concatenated introns; and (2) the existence of two similar classes of genes in vertebrates; interestingly, the differences in intron sizes and numbers in genes from the GC-poor and GC-rich classes are much more striking in plants than in vertebrates.
10747941	myb7 mRNA is present in rice in spliced and unspliced forms, splicing being enhanced by anoxia. The protein (Mybleu) encoded by the unspliced mRNA is composed of an incomplete Myb domain followed by a leucine zipper; however, it lacks canonical sequences for DNA binding, transcriptional activation, and nuclear localization. We show here that in transiently transformed tobacco protoplasts, Mybleu is able to enhance the transcriptional activity of the maize leucine zipper Opaque2 on its target b32 promoter. The Mybleu transactivation effect is strictly dependent on the presence of Opaque2 and is driven by Mybleu-Opaque2 heterodimers. Mybleu is located in the nucleus, both in rice and in transformed tobacco protoplasts. In rice, the protein is expressed in regions corresponding to undifferentiated cells of roots and coleoptiles. Therefore, myb7 mRNA encodes, depending on its splicing, two transcription factors belonging to separate classes. One of them, Mybleu, has novel structural characteristics, suggesting the existence of new mechanisms acting in the activation of transcription.
10748576	Free radicals with a long lifetime were observed in the leaves of two rice cultivars (Oryza sativa L.), Sasanishiki (UVB resistant) and Norin-1 (UVB sensitive), by electron spin resonance spectroscopy. The leaves of both cultivars grown with visible light show very similar ESR spectra composed of radical 1 (R1) and radical 2 (R2), which may be attributable to P700 cation radicals in the reaction center of photosystem I, and tyrosine cation radicals in the reaction center of photosystem II, respectively. The ESR spectrum composed of R1 and R2 radicals in the leaves of Sasanishiki grown under visible light with supplemental UVB was similar to that in the plant grown without supplemental UVB. On the other hand, the amount of R2 radicals in the leaves of Norin-1 grown under visible light with supplemental UVB was significantly smaller than that in the plant grown without supplemental UVB. It is suggested that the loss of R2 radicals in Norin-1 upon UVB irradiation is related to the instability of the plant.
10749030	The aim of this study was to investigate whether consumption of a newly developed oat milk deprived of insoluble fiber would result in lower serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels in men with moderate hypercholesterolemia. The study had a randomized, controlled double-blind design, and oat milk was compared with an identically flavored control drink. Sixty-six men were recruited from a screening program and were randomly assigned to two groups. Each group took either oat milk or a control drink (rice milk) for 5 weeks (0.75 liters/day) and then switched to the other drink regimen for another 5-week period with a 5-week washout period between the test periods. The oat milk contained more dietary fiber, especially beta-glucan (0.5 g/100 g), than the control drink (<0.02 g/100 g). Both drinks were well appreciated and got similar sensory evaluation, indicating that the double-blind design had been attained. In the final analysis 52 subjects remained. Compared with the control drink, intake of oat milk resulted in significantly lower serum total cholesterol (6%, p = 0.005) and LDL cholesterol (6%, p = 0.036) levels. The decrease in LDL cholesterol was more pronounced if the starting value was higher (r = -0.55, p < 0.001). The concentration of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol was not significantly different after consumption of the two drinks. Serum triglycerides did not change significantly after intake of oat milk, but a significant increase was observed after intake of the control drink (p = 0.003). It is concluded that also oat milk deprived of insoluble fiber has cholesterol-reducing properties.
10750717	Two cDNAs encoding isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase (IPI) in Adonis aestivalis, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Lactuca sativa, and single examples from Oryza sativa and Tagetes erecta were identified. An analysis of these and other ipi leads us to suggest a separate origin for green algal and plant genes and propose that a single gene encodes plastid and cytosolic IPI in plants.
10750718	We present a novel method for direct introduction of chemicals into a sieve tube of intact rice plants-namely, the method of micro-introduction using stylet of insect (the MUSI method). Fluorescent dyes were successfully introduced into a sieve tube through a severed stylet of planthopper and the distribution of the dyes was observed.
10751019	Muscle injuries--lacerations, contusions or strains--are by far the most common injuries in sports. After first aid following the RICE principle (Rest, Ice, Compression and Elevation), therapy must be tailored according to the severity of the injury and based on the knowledge gained from experimental studies on regeneration of injured muscle. Most muscle injuries can be treated conservatively with excellent recovery, but complete ruptures with complete loss of function should be managed surgically. Immediately after the injury, a short period of immobilization is needed to accelerate formation of the scar between the stumps of the ruptured myofibers, to which the stumps adhere. The optimal length of immobilization depends on the grade of the injury, and should not be longer than needed for the scar to bear the pulling forces without rerupture. Early mobilization is required to invigorate adhesion, orientation of the regenerating muscle fibers, revascularization and resorption of the connective tissue scar. Another important aim of early mobilization, especially in clinical sports medicine, is to minimize inactivity-induced atrophy as well as loss of strength and extensibility, which are rapidly appearing adverse sequelae of prolonged immobilization.
10751173	Mutations in the FGFR1-FGFR3 and TWIST genes are known to cause craniosynostosis, the former by constitutive activation and the latter by haploinsufficiency. Although clinically achieving the same end result, the premature fusion of the calvarial bones, it is not known whether these genes lie in the same or independent pathways during calvarial bone development and later in suture closure. We have previously shown that Fgfr2c is expressed at the osteogenic fronts of the developing calvarial bones and that, when FGF is applied via beads to the osteogenic fronts, suture closure is accelerated (Kim, H.-J., Rice, D. P. C., Kettunen, P. J. and Thesleff, I. (1998) Development 125, 1241-1251). In order to investigate further the role of FGF signalling during mouse calvarial bone and suture development, we have performed detailed expression analysis of the splicing variants of Fgfr1-Fgfr3 and Fgfr4, as well as their potential ligand Fgf2. The IIIc splice variants of Fgfr1-Fgfr3 as well as the IIIb variant of Fgfr2 being expressed by differentiating osteoblasts at the osteogenic fronts (E15). In comparison to Fgf9, Fgf2 showed a more restricted expression pattern being primarily expressed in the sutural mesenchyme between the osteogenic fronts. We also carried out a detailed expression analysis of the helix-loop-helix factors (HLH) Twist and Id1 during calvaria and suture development (E10-P6). Twist and Id1 were expressed by early preosteoblasts, in patterns that overlapped those of the FGF ligands, but as these cells differentiated their expression dramatically decreased. Signalling pathways were further studied in vitro, in E15 mouse calvarial explants. Beads soaked in FGF2 induced Twist and inhibited Bsp, a marker of functioning osteoblasts. Meanwhile, BMP2 upregulated Id1. Id1 is a dominant negative HLH thought to inhibit basic HLH such as Twist. In Drosophila, the FGF receptor FR1 is known to be downstream of Twist. We demonstrated that in Twist(+/)(-) mice, FGFR2 protein expression was altered. We propose a model of osteoblast differentiation integrating Twist and FGF in the same pathway, in which FGF acts both at early and late stages. Disruption of this pathway may lead to craniosynostosis.
10752553	The genetic structure of rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) populations within and between growing sites was analyzed in a collection of natural field isolates from different rice varieties grown in eight tungro-endemic sites of the Philippines. Total DNA extracts from 345 isolates were digested with EcoRV restriction enzyme and hybridized with a full-length probe of RTBV, a procedure shown in preliminary experiments capable of revealing high levels of polymorphism in RTBV field isolates. In the total population, 17 distinct EcoRV-based genome profiles (genotypes) were identified and used as indicators for virus diversity. Distinct sets of genotypes occurred in Isabela and North Cotabato provinces suggesting a geographic isolation of virus populations. However, among the sites in each province, there were few significant differences in the genotype compositions of virus populations. The number of genotypes detected at a site varied from two to nine with a few genotypes dominating. In general the isolates at a site persisted from season to season indicating a genetic stability for the local virus population. Over the sampling time, IRRI rice varieties, which have green leafhopper resistance genes, supported similar virus populations to those supported by other varieties, indicating that the variety of the host exerted no apparent selection pressures. Insect transmission experiments on selected RTBV field isolates showed that dramatic shifts in genotype and phenotype distributions can occur in response to host/environmental shifts.
10753439	Solid substrate fermentation (SSF) of Monascus purpureus on rice is a promising new technology for obtaining natural pigments. However, before attempts can be made at maximizing pigment yield, all significant macroscopic compounds should be assayed. Here, Monascus purpureus has been grown on rice in batch mode, and the evolution of the main components, biomass, residual rice, O(2), CO(2), ethanol, acetic acid, and pigments, have been followed. This set of data, never previously studied for Monascus SSF, allowed both the performance of a macroscopic elemental balance, which accounted for 83-94% of the initial substrate carbon, and a check of data consistency. Standard consistency analysis showed a significant underestimation of the nitrogen fraction of biomass, but it was unable to discriminate the errors in the carbon balance as a result of the simultaneous presence of two gross errors in the system. A simple stoichiometric model in tandem with consistency analysis explained unaccounted carbon as an underestimation of CO(2) and ethanol. Using the simplified method to estimate ethanol, the macroscopic balance accounted for 87-99% of the initial carbon.
10753459	NASA-Johnson Space Center is designing and building a habitat (Bioregenerative Planetary Life Support Systems Test Complex, BIO-Plex) intended for evaluating advanced life support systems developed for long-duration missions to the Moon or Mars where all consumables will be recycled and reused. A food system based on raw products obtained from higher plants (such as soybeans, rice, and wheat) may be a central feature of a biologically based Advanced Life Support System. To convert raw crops to edible ingredients or food items, multipurpose processing equipment such as an extruder is ideal. Volatile compounds evolved during the manufacturing of these food products may accumulate and reach toxic levels. Additionally, off-odors often dissipated in open-air environments without consequence may cause significant discomfort in the BIO-Plex. Rice and defatted soy flours were adjusted to 16% moisture, and triplicate samples were extruded using a tabletop single-screw extruder. The extrudate was collected in specially designed Tedlar bags from which air samples could be extracted. The samples were analyzed by GC-MS with special emphasis on compounds with Spacecraft Maximum Allowable Concentrations (SMACs). Results showed a combination of alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, and carbonyl compounds in the different flours. Each compound and its SMAC value, as well as its impact on the air revitalization system, was discussed.
10754679	[formula: see text] The endophytic fungus Cryptosporiopsis cf. quercina produces cryptocin in culture. Among other fungi, this unique tetramic acid displays antimycotic activity against Pyricularia oryzae, the causal agent of rice blast disease. Cryptocin also possesses activity against a wide variety of plant pathogenic but not human pathogenic fungi. The fine rhomboid-like crystals of cryptocin allowed structural elucidation by X-ray crystallography. The importance of cryptocin to the symbiotic relationship of C. quercina to its hosts is briefly discussed.
10755127	One strain of Fusarium subglutinans (ITEM-1434) isolated from maize ear rot in Poland was tested for the ability to synthesize moniliformin (MON), beauvericin (BEA) and fusaproliferin (FP) on six cereal substrates (wheat, rye, barley, oat, maize and rice kernels) for 3 weeks at 25 degrees C and on rice at three different temperatures (20, 25 and 30 degrees C). Most MON (497 micrograms/g) was produced on rice; most BEA (704 micrograms/g) on wheat or rice, and most FP (422 micrograms/g) on rye. When cultured on rice, F. subglutinans produced the highest levels of BEA and FP at 20-25 degrees C, while MON production was best at 30 degrees C.
10755138	The FDA has conducted the Total Dietary Study (TDS), a yearly market basket programme, since 1961. It is designed to monitor the levels of toxic chemical contaminants (pesticide residues, industrial and elemental contaminants) and essential nutrients in the US food supply. It also provides information on trends in dietary concentrations and exposures for the general population. Foods are collected from retail stores once a year from each of four geographic areas of the US and are analysed either after preparation/cooking or as ready-to-eat. The latest TDS (1991-1997) data show that arsenic (inorganic and organic, > or = 0.03 ppm) was found in 63 (24%) of the 261-264 foods/mixed dishes analysed. The highest concentration was found in seafood, followed by rice/rice cereal, mushrooms, and poultry. Based on the United States Department of Agriculture's 1987-1988 Nationwide Food Consumption Survey, the estimated daily total arsenic average intakes, in microgram/day, are: 2 for infants, 23 for toddlers, 20 for 6-year-old children, 13 for 10-year-old children, 15 for 14-16-year-old boys, 21 for 14-16-year-old girls, 57 for 25-30-year-old men, 28 for 25-30-year-old women, 47 for 40-45-year-old men, 37 for 40-45-year-old women, 92 for 60-65-year-old men, 72 for 60-65-year-old women, 69 for 70-year-old men, and 42 for 70-year-old women. Of the estimated total arsenic intakes for infants, 42% arise from seafood and 31% from rice/rice cereals. Of the estimated total arsenic intakes, seafood contributes 76-90% for children (2-10-year olds), 79-85% for 14-16-year olds, and 89-96% for adults (> or = 25-30-year olds); rice/rice cereals contributes 4-8% for children, 8% for 14-16-year olds, and 1-4% for adults (> or = 25-30-year olds).
10755302	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice. A virulence- and xylanase-deficient mutant of Xoo was isolated following ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) mutagenesis. A cosmid clone that restored virulence and xylanase secretion was obtained from a genomic library by functional complementation. Transposon mutagenesis and marker exchange studies revealed genes on the cloned DNA that were required for xylanase production and virulence. Sequence analysis with transposon-specific primers revealed that these genes were homologues of xps F and xps D, which encode components of a protein secretion system in Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris. Enzyme assays showed xylanase accumulation in the periplasmic space and cytoplasm of the xps F mutant and the complementing clone restored transport to the extracellular space.
10755311	In order to study molecular interactions that occur between rice and rice blast fungus upon infection, we isolated fungal elicitor-responsive genes from rice (Oryza sativa cv. Milyang 117) suspension-cultured cells treated with fungal elicitor prepared from the rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea) employing a method that combined mRNA differential display and cDNA library screening. Data base searches with the isolated cDNA clones revealed that the OsERG1 and OsERG2 cDNAs share significant similarities with the mammalian Ca2+-dependent lipid binding (C2) domains. The OsCPX1 cDNA is highly homologous to peroxidases. The OsHin1 cDNA exhibits homology to the tobacco hin1 gene, whose expression is induced by avirulent pathogens. The OsLPL1 and OsMEK1 cDNAs share homologies with lysophospholipases and serine/threonine mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinases, respectively. The OsWRKY1 and OsEREBP1 cDNAs are homologous to transcription factors, such as the WRKY protein family and the AP2/EREBP family, respectively. Transcripts of the OsERG1, OsHin1, and OsMEK1 genes were specifically elevated only in response to the avirulent race KJ301 of the rice blast fungus. Our study yielded a number of elicitor-responsive genes that will not only provide molecular probes, but also contribute to our understanding of host defense mechanisms against the rice blast fungus.
10758508	Plants and certain bacteria use a non-mevalonate alternative route for the biosynthesis of many isoprenoids, including carotenoids. This route has been discovered only recently and has been designated the deoxyxylulose phosphate pathway or methylerythritol phosphate (MEP) pathway. We report here that colonisation of roots from wheat, maize, rice and barley by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal symbiont Glomus intraradices involves strong induction of transcript levels of two of the pivotal enzymes of the MEP pathway, 1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase (DXS) and 1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXR). This induction is temporarily and spatially correlated with specific and concomitant accumulation of two classes of apocarotenoids, namely glycosylated C13 cyclohexenone derivatives and mycorradicin (C14) conjugates, the latter being a major component of the long-known 'yellow pigment'. A total of six cyclohexenone derivatives were characterised from mycorrhizal wheat and maize roots. Furthermore, the acyclic structure of mycorradicin described previously only from maize has been identified from mycorrhizal wheat roots after alkaline treatment of an 'apocarotenoid complex' of yellow root constituents. We propose a hypothetical scheme for biogenesis of both types of apocarotenoids from a common oxocarotenoid (xanthophyll) precursor. This is the first report demonstrating (i) that the plastidic MEP pathway is active in plant roots and (ii) that it can be induced by a fungus.
10758872	The taxonomic structure of members of the genus Azoarcus sensu lato was reassessed in a polyphasic approach. Two species, Azoarcus communis and Azoarcus indigens, three unnamed species containing diazotrophs associated with Kallar grass roots (groups C, D) and a group of strains (E) isolated from fungi were analysed. They were compared by PAGE analyses of cellular proteins, genomic fingerprints, morphological and nutritional features to new isolates from rice roots. All strains within groups C, D and E containing 5-12 isolates showed group-specific cell and colony morphology and carbon source utilization patterns, with exception of the obligately microaerobic strain BS20-3, a member of group C. All strains, with this exception, also had almost indistinguishable electrophoretic protein patterns and genomic fingerprints generated with tDNA-directed primers, suggesting they belong to the same species. Phylogenetic analyses of almost complete 16S rDNA sequences carried out with three different algorithms (neighbour-joining, maximum-likelihood, parsimony) revealed that Azoarcus sensu lato is not monophyletic. Groups C, D and E formed three distinct lineages located between the Azoarcus/Thauera and the Rhodocyclus clusters. Phylogenetic distances between groups C, D and E were as large as between other genera (93-94% sequence similarity). This suggested they have the rank of three different genera. Since it was possible to differentiate them from each other and other related bacteria by phenotypic features, three new genera with one type species each are proposed: Azovibrio restrictus gen. nov., sp. nov., Azospira oryzae gen. nov., sp. nov. and Azonexus fungiphilus gen. nov., sp. nov.
10758893	Eight Gram-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped and peritrichously flagellated strains were isolated from flowers of the orchid tree (Bauhinia purpurea) and of plumbago (Plumbago auriculata), and from fermented glutinous rice, all collected in Indonesia. The enrichment culture approach for acetic acid bacteria was employed, involving use of sorbitol medium at pH 3.5. All isolates grew well at pH 3.0 and 30 degrees C. They did not oxidize ethanol to acetic acid except for one strain that oxidized ethanol weakly, and 0.35% acetic acid inhibited their growth completely. However, they oxidized acetate and lactate to carbon dioxide and water. The isolates grew well on mannitol agar and on glutamate agar, and assimilated ammonium sulfate for growth on vitamin-free glucose medium. The isolates produced acid from D-glucose, D-fructose, L-sorbose, dulcitol and glycerol. The quinone system was Q-10. DNA base composition ranged from 59.3 to 61.0 mol% G + C. Studies of DNA relatedness showed that the isolates constitute a single species. Phylogenetic analysis based on their 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that the isolates are located in the acetic acid bacteria lineage, but distant from the genera Acetobacter, Gluconobacter, Acidomonas and Gluconacetobacter. On the basis of the above characteristics, the name Asaia bogorensis gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed for these isolates. The type strain is isolate 71T (= NRIC 0311T = JCM 10569T).
10760404	Lead poisoning by shot-pellet ingestion is an important cause of death in waterfowl from wetlands that have high densities of lead-shot pellets and low availabilities of grit in their sediments. To evaluate grit supplementation when mixed with baited grain as a method of reducing shot ingestion in waterfowl, 24 mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) were kept in captivity to study the relationship between steel-shot, grit and grain ingestion in four experiments. Steel-shot ingestion was more related to seeking grit than to feeding on grain, and it did not differ between two types of grain offered (rice or sorghum). Grit ingestion increased with grit supplementation and shot ingestion was only slightly reduced. Calcareous grit used in the experiments had a shorter half-life (1.4 days) in the gizzard than values reported for siliceous grit (3.1 days).
10761589	Abundant natural enemies in tropical Asian irrigated rice usually prevent significant insect pest problems. Integrated pest management (IPM) extension education of depth and quality is required to discourage unnecessary insecticide use that upsets this natural balance, and to empower farmers as expert managers of a healthy paddy ecosystem. Farmers' skill and collaboration will be particularly important for sustainable exploitation of the potential of new, higher-yielding and pest-resistant rice. IPM "technology transfer" through training and visit (T&V) extension systems failed, although mass media campaigns encouraging farmer participatory research can reduce insecticide use. The "farmer first" approach of participatory nonformal education in farmer field schools, followed by community IPM activities emphasizing farmer-training-farmer and research by farmers, has had greater success in achieving IPM implementation. Extension challenges are a key topic for rice IPM research, and new pest management technology must promote, rather than endanger, ecological balance in rice paddies.
10766310	The complete nucleotide sequence of rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) strain Vt6, originally from Mindanao, the Philippines, with higher virulence to resistant rice cultivars, was determined and compared with the published sequence for the Philippine-type strain A (RTSV-A-Shen). It was reported that RTSV-A was not able to infect a rice resistant cultivar TKM 6 (10). RTSV-Vt6 and RTSV-A-Shen share 90% and 95% homology at nucleotide and amino-acid levels, respectively. The N-terminal leader sequence of RTSV-Vt6 contained a 39-amino acids-region (positions 65 to 103) which was totally different from that of RTSV-A-Shen; the difference resulted from frame shifting by nucleotide insertions and deletions. To confirm the amino-acid sequence differences of the leader polypeptide, the same region was cloned and sequenced using a newly obtained variant of RTSV-type 6, which had been collected in the field of IRRI, and seven field isolates from Mindanao, the Philippines. Since all the sequences of the target region are identical to that of the Vt6 leader polypeptide, the sequence difference in the leader region seems not to correlate with the virulence of Vt6.
10766804	To investigate the transcriptional mechanisms of rice tungro bacilliform virus, we have systematically analyzed an activator element located immediately upstream of the TATA box in the rice tungro bacilliform virus promoter and its cognate trans-acting factors. Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we showed that rice nuclear proteins bind to the activator element, forming multiple specific DNA-protein complexes via protein-protein interactions. Copper-phenanthroline footprinting and DNA methylation interference analysis indicated that multiple DNA-protein complexes share a common binding site located between positions -60 to -39, and the proteins contact the activator element in the major groove. DNA UV cross-linking assays further showed that two nuclear proteins (36 and 33 kDa), found in rice cell suspension and shoot nuclear extracts, and one (27 kDa), present in root nuclear extracts, bind to this activator element. In protoplasts derived from a rice (Oryza sativa) suspension culture, the activator element is a prerequisite for promoter activity and its function is critically dependent on its position relative to the TATA box. Thus, transcriptional activation may function via interactions with the basal transcriptional machinery, and we propose that this activation is mediated by protein-protein interactions in a position-dependent mechanism.
10767414	Almost all the nuclear genes of four Gramineae (maize, wheat, barley, rice) and pea are located in DNA fractions covering only a 1-2% GC range and representing between 10 and 25% of the different genomes. These DNA fractions comprise large gene-rich regions (collectively called the 'gene space') separated by vast gene-empty, repeated sequences. In contrast, in Arabidopsis thaliana, genes are distributed in DNA fractions covering an 8% GC range and representing 85% of the genome. Here, we investigated the integration of a transferred DNA (T-DNA) in the genomes of Arabidopsis and rice and found different patterns of integration, which are correlated with the different gene distributions. While T-DNA integrates essentially everywhere in the Arabidopsis genome, integration was detected only in the gene space, namely in the gene-rich, transcriptionally active, regions of the rice genome. The implications of these results for the integration of foreign DNA are discussed.
10767423	We investigated the effect of oxygen on the expressions of respiratory genes encoded in the nuclear and mitochondrial genomes of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Hypoxic treatment decreased the transcript levels of nuclear-encoded, but not mitochondrial-encoded respiratory genes. The effects of ruthenium red (an inhibitor of Ca(2+) fluxes from organelles) and/or CaCl(2) on plants under hypoxic conditions suggested that Ca(2+) is a physiological transducer of a low-oxygen signaling pathway for expression of the alternative oxidase 1a gene (AOX1a), but not for expressions of genes involved in the cytochrome respiratory pathway, in rice.
10767432	Secretory class III plant peroxidases (POXs) catalyze the oxidation of various reductants, and are encoded by a large multigene family. In rice, 42 independent expressed sequence tags for POXs have been identified. By RNA gel blot analysis using specific probes, we show here that 21 rice POX genes are unique in their developmental, organ specific and external stimuli-responsive expression. This would suggest that encoded POX isoenzymes are involved in a broad range of physiological processes in rice plants, individually.
10767987	We investigated the suitability of transformed rice cell lines as a system for the production of therapeutic recombinant antibodies. Expression constructs encoding a single-chain Fv fragment (scFvT84.66, specific for CEA, the carcinoembryonic antigen present on many human tumours) were introduced into rice tissue by particle bombardment. We compared antibody production levels when antibodies were either secreted to the apoplast or retained in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) using a KDEL retention signal. Production levels were up to 14 times higher when antibodies were retained in the ER. Additionally, we compared construct sencoding different leader peptides (plant codon optimised murine immunoglobulin heavy and light chain leader peptides from mAb24) and carrying alternative 5' untranslated regions (the petunia chalcone synthase gene 5' UTR and the tobacco mosaic virus omega sequence). We observed no significant differences in antibody production levels among cell lines transformed with these constructs. The highest level of antibody production we measured was 3.8 micrograms g-1 callus (fresh weight). Immunological analysis of transgenic rice callus confirmed the presence of functional scFvT84.66. We discuss the potential merits of cell culture for the production of recombinant antibodies and other valuable macromolecules.
10769365	To evaluate mite contamination rate in grains commercialized in nine municipal markets of the city of So Paulo, in the period from November 1989 to November 1990. 23 samples of polished rice and 53 samples of beans were microscopically examined after sieving, once a week and during 42 days at air temperature. Other sample fractions were kept in an incubator at 25 degrees C and 75% Relative Humidity (RH) during 28 days. Samples were negative for mites in the first day of analysis and were detected after incubation. Samples incubated revealed a higher percentage of positive examinations for mites (incidence): 31.7% (and 1,845 mites); while samples kept at air temperature showed only 6.9% (and 45 mites). Samples of polished rice were more contaminated in comparison to the ones of beans. There was a larger amount of mites when the mean monthly temperature of the laboratory was between 21.5 degrees C to 22.5 degrees C (37. 8%) and humidity between 73.5% to 74.5% (31.1%). The predominant species was Tyrophagus putrescentiae and other identified species were Blomia tropicalis, Cheyletus spp., Blattisocius tarsalis, and others. Mite population had a higher proliferation rate during spring, summer and in the beginning of autumn, due to highest temperature and humidity. These results confirm the importance of improving grains storage, to avoid mites proliferation.
10769756	Linker adaptor-mediated PCR (LAM-PCR) and degenerate oligonucleotide primed PCR (DOP-PCR) are major ways to generate chromosome-specific libraries. In this study, these two PCR techniques were used to amplify the microdissected mitotic and meiotic chromosomes from rice and wheat. The results of amplifications were compared, and the advantages and limitations between the two techniques are presented.
10771063	Isozymes of glycosyl hydrolase Family 17 hydrolyze 1,3-beta-glucan polysaccharides found in the cell wall matrix of plants and fungi, enabling these plant enzymes to serve diverse roles in plant defense and plant development. Fourteen genes from Family 17 have been characterized in the genome of rice. A sequence dendrogram analysis divided these genes into four subfamilies. The recombinant GNS1 enzyme from subfamily B had 1,3;1,4-beta-glucanase activity, suggesting a role for this isozyme in plant development.
10771064	The Matrix Polymer Hydrolysis Model for regulation of growth in plants is based on the simultaneous hydrolysis and incorporation of new glucans into the cell wall observed in growing plant tissues. The inhibition of growth in rice coleoptile tissues treated with glucanase antibodies confirms similar results observed previously in maize coleoptiles and provides direct evidence for a role of glucanase in control of plant growth. Analysis of two-maize coleoptile endo-glucanase ESTs shows that these sequences are not related to any other previously known family of glycosyl hydrolase. Thus, the coleoptile endo-glucanase enzyme should be classified as a new enzyme group (E.C. 3.2.1.xx). These discoveries enable new initiatives for further investigation of the glucanase role in control of plant growth.
10772027	The expansion of nuclear power programs in Asia has stimulated interest in the improved modeling of concentrations of tritium in rice, a staple crop grown throughout the far east. Normally, the specific activity model is used to calculate concentrations of tritium in the tissue water of edible plants to assess ingestion dose from chronic releases. However, because rice, like other grains, has much lower water content than most crops, the calculation must also account for organically bound tritium. This paper reviews ways to calculate steady-state concentrations of tritium in rice, including the methods of Canadian and United States regulatory models, and the assumptions behind them. Concentrations in rice and resulting ingestion doses are compared for the various methods, and equations for calculating concentrations are recommended. The regulatory models underestimate doses received from ingestion of rice contaminated with tritium since they do not account explicitly for organically bound tritium. The importance of including organically bound tritium is illustrated in a comparison of doses from rice, leafy vegetables and milk for an Asian diet. Dose factors from tritium for these foods are estimated to be 135, 47, and 20 nSv y(-1)/(Bq m(-3)), respectively. Assuming known air concentrations, tritium concentrations in rice, calculated with the recommended equations, are uncertain by less than a factor 2 when tritium concentrations in the rice paddy water are known, and by less than a factor of 2.3 when concentrations in paddy water are unknown.
10772155	Two isolates of binucleate Rhizoctonia spp., previously selected for efficacy in suppression of Rhizoctonia solani and Pythium spp., as well as plant growth promotion, were incorporated into various solid substrate formulations. These formulated products were assayed at three doses in three glass-house experiments for biocontrol of damping-off diseases in Capsicum annuum. R. solani anastomosis group 4 or Pythium ultimum var. sporangiiferum were incorporated into pasteurized potting medium with each formulated binucleate Rhizoctonia product. All formulations were effective against both pathogens in at least two experiments, but some formulations of one isolate of binucleate Rhizoctonia did not give consistent control of R. solani in one experiment. The most consistent formulation, which provided control of both pathogens at all doses of binucleate Rhizoctonia, was the simple substrate of rice hulls. The implications for commercialization of a biocontrol product are discussed.
10773336	Maize streak geminivirus (MSV) is a single-stranded DNA virus that infects cereals and other grasses. A promoter region incorporating the MSV large intergenic region and movement protein gene sequence was ligated to the gus (beta-glucuronidase) reporter gene which replaced the virus coat protein (CP) gene. The CP promoter activity was analysed in transgenic rice plants (Oryza sativa L.) and was compared with that obtained in plants transformed with the gus gene downstream of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. The MSV CP promoter activity varied in the five plant lines tested, but was always less than that of the CaMV promoter. Histochemistry showed that the MSV CP promoter was active in cells of regenerating callus but in regenerated plants it provided an expression pattern restricted to the vascular tissues of the root, stem, leaf and floral organs. Expression was highest in phloem-associated tissues of the vegetative organs and was absent from the tip and elongation region of seedling roots. Thus, the MSV CP promoter shows a degree of developmental regulation and can be used to confer tissue-specific expression in transgenic rice plants.
10773343	A peroxidase gene, poxA, was isolated from a rice (Oryza sativa L.) genomic library. The gene consists of four exons whose combined sequences were identical to that of the prxRPA mRNA whose levels were dramatically stimulated by wounding as well as by treatment of rice shoots with ethephon or UV irradiation [H. Ito, F. Kimizuka, A. Ohbayashi, H. Matsui, M. Honma, A. Shinmyo, Y. Ohashi, A.B. Caplan, R.L. Rodriguez, Molecular cloning and characterization of two complementary DNAs encoding putative peroxidases from rice (Oryza sativa L.) shoots, Plant Cell Rep. 13 (1994) 361-366]. The temporal and spatial expression properties of the poxA gene promoter as well as that from a second related peroxidase gene, poxN, were analyzed in transgenic tobacco and rice plants using the uidA gene as a reporter. In transgenic tobacco, UV- and wound-responsive cis-elements were located within 144 bp from the translational start codon of the poxA gene. The poxN promoter, however, was inactive in the heterologous host as no significant GUS activity was evident. On the other hand, chimeric uidA genes containing 2.2 kb of the poxA promoter or 1.4 kb of poxN promoter were active in transgenic rice plants. Both peroxidase promoters directed GUS activities in a spatial and tissue specific manner coincident with the expression patterns exhibited by their mRNAs. Histochemical analysis of transgenic rice plants showed that both peroxidase genes are expressed in the vascular bundles of the shoot apex and lamina joint, and in xylem-parenchyma cells of the leaf blade and sheath.
10774494	Japanese encephalitis is a mosquito-borne viral disease occurring in rural and rice-growing areas of Asia, where mosquitoes proliferate, transmitting the Flavivirus from viremic animals, mostly pigs, to humans. Japanese encephalitis has recently spread to previously non-affected regions, leading to serious outbreaks among non-immune populations. Although it has a high proportion of unsymptomatic infection, clinical encephalitis is usually severe, resulting in a very high mortality rate, and neurologic sequellae are common among survivors. Vaccines are used in several Asian countries. One of these vaccines is now available to French travellers, but only in international vaccination centres with an authorization from the French drug agency (Agence franaise de scurit sanitaire des produits de sant). The aim of this paper is to clarify the recommendations for immunisation in each country of the affected regions. The area can be divided into three epidemiological zones, with tropical, subtropical and temperate characteristics. For the first two, vaccination is recommended before a long stay in a rural area, especially during the rainy season; in temperate climates, outbreaks occur in summer and autumn. However, local variations such as intensive rice-growing or development of pig breeding may interfere with these patterns. Long-term visitors should consult a local physician and prevention of mosquito bites is always recommended.
10775368	A stable isotope dilution assay for quantification of pantothenic acid in food and blood plasma uses a 4-fold labeled isotopomer of the vitamin as an internal standard. Pantothenic acid and its labeled analogue were detected as trimethylsilyl derivatives by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, showing a minimized spectral overlap. In starch a detection limit of 44 microg/kg, an intrasample relative standard deviation of 6.7%, and recovery values ranging between 97.5 and 99.4% were determined. Total pantothenic acid content was determined in rice, milk powder, apple juice, and blood plasma after enzymatic hydrolysis of the vitamin's conjugates; free pantothenic acid was quantified prior to enzyme treatment. Almost all results were found to be in good agreement with literature data.
10775404	Eight flavaglines, six cyclopenta[b]benzofurans, a cyclopenta[bc]benzopyran, and a benzo[b]oxepine, together with an aromatic butyrolactone were isolated from Aglaia odorata, A. elaeagnoidea, and A. edulis (Meliaceae) and tested against the three plant pathogens Pyricularia grisea, Fusarium avenaceum, and Alternaria citri for antifungal properties. Using the microdilution technique linked with digital image analysis of germ tubes, the benzofurans displayed strong activity, whereas the benzopyran, benzoxepine, and butyrolactone were inactive at the highest concentration tested. P. grisea, responsible for rice blast disease, was the most susceptible fungus against all benzofurans, with rocaglaol as the most active derivative. Based on EC(50), EC(90), and MIC values, the antifungal activity of rocaglaol was clearly higher than of the reference compounds, blasticidin S and Benlate.
10776946	Regurgitation is common in infants and is usually due to gastroesophageal reflux. Often parental reassurance and dietary management by feeding thickened formulas are the only therapeutic steps necessary. Adding fibers may interfere with the absorption of micronutrients. A continuous-flow dialysis in vitro method with a preliminary intraluminal digestive phase, modified to simulate the conditions of infants less than 6 months of age and children from 6 months of age on, was used to study the availability of calcium, iron, and zinc from thickened and nonthickened first-and second-age infant formulas. Pooled mature human milk was used as the reference standard. The elemental content of the samples and dialysate fractions of calcium, iron, and zinc after digestion was determined by atomic absorption spectrometry. In human milk, calcium, iron, and zinc were highly available for absorptive processes. Availability of calcium, iron, and zinc from nonthickened first- and second-age infant formulas tends to be significantly better than in the corresponding products thickened with locust bean gum. Thickening infant formulas with pregelatinized rice starch, however, does not affect the availability of calcium, iron, and zinc. It appears that human milk provides optimal conditions for the availability of calcium, iron, and zinc. Availability of calcium, iron, and zinc seems to lower when infant formulas are thickened with indigestible carbohydrates, whereas it does not by adding digestible carbohydrates.
10777395
10778752	In an attempt to identify a specific marker for biotype 2 of the Asian rice gall midge (Orseolia oryzae, Wood-Mason), we used AFLP (amplified fragment length polymorphism) fingerprinting. We identified an AFLP marker that is specifically amplified in biotypes 1, 2 and 5 of the rice gall midge, but not in biotype 4. Biotypes 1, 2 and 5 are avirulent to hosts bearing the Gm2 resistance gene (found in rice variety Phalguna), whereas biotype 4 is virulent to Gm2. Based on the sequence of this AFLP marker, SCAR (sequence characterized amplified region) primers were designed and used in combination with previously developed SCAR primers to distinguish effectively all five biotypes in a multiplex PCR-based assay. The inheritance pattern of this marker in the progenies of inter-biotype crosses between biotypes 1, 2 and 4 shows that the marker can be amplified by PCR from all F1 females, irrespective of the biotype status of their parents. However, the marker is present only in those male progenies whose mother was of a Gm2 avirulent biotype. The specific amplification of this marker in the avirulent biotypes and its pattern of inheritance show that avirulence with respect to carriers of the Gm2 gene in rice gall midge is sex-linked.
10778756	The wheat gene WPK4 encodes a 56-kDa protein kinase that belongs to group 3 of the SNF1-related protein kinase family (SnRK3), and is up-regulated by light and cytokinins and down-regulated by sucrose. In order to determine whether or not this particular regulation pattern is general among plant species, we isolated and characterized homologous genes from rice and maize. Two rice genes, OsPK4 and OsPK7, encode proteins comprising 508 and 520 amino acids, and show, respectively, 75% and 76% sequence similarity to WPK4. OsPK4 and OsPK7 proteins produced in Escherichia coli were able to phosphorylate themselves and myelin basic proteins, the reaction requiring magnesium and/or manganese ions. Transcripts of OsPK4 were detected in all tissues tested, and amounts were increased upon illumination, nutrient deprivation and treatment with cytokinins. In contrast, transcripts of OsPK7 were not found in any tissues except in mature leaves at low levels, and did not accumulate under any of the stress conditions examined. A maize gene, ZmPK4, encodes a protein with 518 amino acids that shows 74% similarity to WPK4. Its transcripts were constitutively expressed in all tissues, regardless of light, nutrient and cytokinin status, but were increased upon exposure to low temperature. These results indicate that, despite the sequence similarity between their products, genes for SnRK3 proteins are differentially regulated in response to environmental stimuli.
10779738	An experiment was performed to study the glucose kinetics of crossbred Holstein cattle feeding on either hay or 5% urea-treated rice straw during early lactation (30 days post partum), mid-lactation (120 days post partum) and late lactation (210 days post partum). Two breeds: Holstein FriesianxRed Sindhi (50:50 = 50% HF) and Holstein FriesianxRed Sindhi (87.5:12.5 = 87.5% HF) were used. In early lactating 87.5% HF animals feeding on either hay or urea-treated rice straw, the high milk yields and lactose secretion were related to glucose uptake by the udder and udder blood flow as compared with those of 50% HF animals. Marked decreases in udder blood flow, glucose uptake, lactose secretion and milk yield were apparent in mid- and late lactation of both groups of 87.5% HF animals. In contrast, both groups of 50% HF animals showed no significant changes in udder blood flow, udder glucose uptake, lactose secretion and milk yields throughout the course of lactation. Total glucose entry rate using 3-[3H] glucose infusion, recycling of glucose carbon and plasma glucose clearance significantly increased during late lactation for 50 and 87.5% HF animals feeding on urea-treated rice straw. The utilization rates of glucose using [U-(14)C] glucose infusion were not significantly different among groups of animals and periods of lactation. It can be concluded that 87.5% HF animals have the genetic potential for a higher milk yield, but a shorter peak yield and poorer persistence in comparison with 50% HF animals. Changes in the utilization of glucose by the mammary gland for milk production in both groups of crossbred animals during feeding on either hay or urea-treated rice straw would be dependent on intramammary changes.
10782288	2,6-Dideoxy-7-O-(beta-D-glucopyranosyl) 2,6-imino-D-glycero-L-gulo- heptitol (7-O-beta-D-glucopyranosyl-alpha-homonojirimycin, 1) was isolated from the 50% methanol extract of the whole plant of Lobelia sessilifolia (Campanulaceae), which was found to potently inhibit rice alpha-glucosidase. Adenophorae radix, roots of Adenophora spp. (Campanulaceae), yielded new homonojirimycin derivatives, adenophorine (2), 1-deoxyadenophorine (3), 5-deoxyadenophorine (4), 1-C-(5-amino-5-deoxy-beta-D-galactopyranosyl)butane (beta-1-C-butyl-deoxygalactonojirimycin, 5), and the 1-O-beta-D-glucosides of 2 (6) and 4 (7), in addition to the recently discovered alpha-1-C-ethylfagomine (8) and the known 1-deoxymannojirimycin (9) and 2R,5R-bis(hydroxymethyl)-3R,4R- dihydroxypyrrolidine (DMDP, 10). Compound 4 is a potent inhibitor of coffee bean alpha-galactosidase (IC50 = 6.4 microM) and a reasonably good inhibitor of bovine liver beta-galactosidase (IC50 = 34 microM). Compound 5 is a very specific and potent inhibitor of coffee bean alpha-galactosidase (IC50 = 0.71 microM). The glucosides 1 and 7 were potent inhibitors of various alpha-glucosidases, with IC50 values ranging from 1 to 0.1 microM. Furthermore, 1 potently inhibited porcine kidney trehalase (IC50 = 0.013 microM) but failed to inhibit alpha-galactosidase, whereas 7 was a potent inhibitor of alpha-galactosidase (IC50 = 1.7 microM) without trehalase inhibitory activity.
10782978	We report a fatal case of death due to unusual aspiration of sardine fry in an elderly Japanese man with lung cancer. The cause of death was sudden respiratory arrest while eating. Autopsy revealed peculiar materials with cell nests and pigmented particles, together with striated muscle and skin, in the ectatic bronchioles of the left lower lobe. Serial histologic sections suggested that the structures observed were the eyeballs of small animals that appeared to have been inhaled. The patient had habitually eaten sardine fry and rice gruel, which were also detected in the gastric contents. Therefore, the eyes were considered to be those of the fry, which is a popular food item in Japan. This was confirmed by histologic examination of fry that were obtained commercially.
10783481	Rice masses remove mucus from the stomach and duodenum as the sticky starch binds the sticky mucus, weakening the defense against acid and pepsin which may in turn cause heartburn and ulcer. Such unwanted effect can be avoided by taking enough water with rice meal as water converts rice masses into slurry.
10783494	A reduced propensity to oxidize fat, as indicated by a relatively high fasting respiratory quotient, is a major risk factor for weight gain. Increased insulin secretion works in various ways to impede fat oxidation and promote fat storage. The substantial 'spontaneous' weight loss often seen with very-low-fat dietary regimens may reflect not only a reduced rate of fat ingestion, but also an improved insulin sensitivity of skeletal muscle that down-regulates insulin secretion. Reduction of diurnal insulin secretion may also play a role in the fat loss often achieved with exercise training, low-glycemic-index diets, supplementation with soluble fiber or chromium, low-carbohydrate regimens, and biguanide therapy. The exceptional leanness of vegan cultures may reflect an additional factor - the absence of animal protein. Although dietary protein by itself provokes relatively little insulin release, it can markedly potentiate the insulin response to co-ingested carbohydrate; Western meals typically unite starchy foods with an animal protein-based main course. Thus, postprandial insulin secretion may be reduced by either avoiding animal protein, or segregating it in low-carbohydrate meals; the latter practice is a feature of fad diets stressing 'food combining'. Vegan diets tend to be relatively low in protein, legume protein may be slowly absorbed, and, as compared to animal protein, isolated soy protein provokes a greater release of glucagon, an enhancer of fat oxidation. The low insulin response to rice may mirror its low protein content. Minimizing diurnal insulin secretion in the context of a low fat intake may represent an effective strategy for achieving and maintaining leanness.
10787050	A group of frequent cDNA clones from a young-leaf cDNA library was found to code for a homologue of S-ribonucleases (S-RNases) involved in gametophytic incompatibility and the so-called S-like RNases active in flowers and in vegetative tissues. The derived amino acid sequence starts with a signal peptide and has a 27-amino-acid C-terminal extension of unknown function. The barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) gene, rsh1 (for RNase S-like homologue) corresponding to the cDNA clones was isolated. The gene has three introns and the position of one intron corresponds to the site of the single, small intron in the S-RNase genes. The deduced amino acid sequence of mature RSH1 shares 35% identical and 58% similar amino acid residues with an S-like RNase from tomato, RNase LE. However, two active-site histidine residues, conserved between all S and S-like RNases are replaced by serine residues in RSH1. The new barley RNase S-like homologue is clearly related to the family of active RNases but is probably not active as an RNase. Sequences from the same class of presumably inactive RNases have been recorded in maize, rice and sorghum. The barley gene is exclusively expressed in young leaf tissue and is substantially induced by light.
10787345
10791026	PCR was performed with degenerate primers which hybridized to the homologous sequences in the reverse transcriptase (rt) genes of gypsy-type retrotransposons from rice (RIRE3, RIRE8 and RIRE2), using total DNA samples from various plants (monocots, dicots, pine, ginkgo, horsetail, liverwort and algae) as templates. Cloning and sequencing showed that the amplified fragments had various degrees of homology to the rt sequences of rice retrotransposons. Phylogenetic analysis showed that these retrotransposon homologues and some additional gypsy-type retrotransposons previously identified from plants could be classified into two families, A and B. In each family, the retrotransposons were further classifiable into several subfamilies. Interestingly, retrotransposons from a single or related plant species were clustered in each subfamily. This indicates that sequence divergence during vertical transmission has been a major influence on the evolution of gypsy-type retrotransposons in plants. The retrotransposons isolated from one plant species could often be classified into the two families. This indicates that the gypsy-type retrotransposons of a family evolved independently within a species without affecting the evolution of retrotransposons of the other family. Retrotransposons in each subfamily are characterized by the lengths of LTR, by the nucleotide sequences in the terminal regions of LTRs, and by the PBS (primer binding site) sequence complementary to the 3' sequence of a particular tRNA species.
10791596	Although children are exposed to a variety of environmental hazards, including pesticides, there is a scarcity of information available to estimate exposures realistically. This article reports on one of the first attempts to measure multi-pathway pesticide exposures in a population-based sample of urban and non-urban children. A design strategy was developed to assess multi-pathway pesticide exposures in children using personal exposure measurements in combination with complimentary measurements of biological markers of exposure, concentrations in relevant environmental media, and time spent in important microenvironments and participating in exposure-related activities. Sample collection and analysis emphasized measurement of three insecticides (i.e., chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and malathion) and one herbicide (i.e., atrazine). These compounds were selected because of their frequent use, presence in multiple environmental media, expected population exposures, and related hazard/toxicity. The study was conducted during the summer of 1997 in Minnesota and involved a stratified sample of households with children ages 3-12 years. Participants resided in either (a) the cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul (urban households), or (b) Rice and Goodhue Counties just south of the metropolitan area (non-urban households). Results from a residential inventory documenting storage and use of products containing the target pesticides were used to preferentially select households where children were likely to have higher exposures. The study successfully obtained pesticide exposure data for 102 children, including measurements of personal exposures (air, hand rinse, duplicate diet), environmental concentrations (residential indoor/outdoor air, drinking water, residential surfaces, soil), activity patterns (obtained by questionnaire, diary, videotaping), and internal dose (metabolites in urine).
10791811	Several molecular maps have been constructed in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) using a variety of probes from different grass species such as sorghum, maize, sugarcane, rice, oat, and barley. In order to enhance the utility of the existing mapping information by the sorghum research community, alignment and integration of all major molecular maps is necessary. To achieve this objective, a genetic map of 214 loci with a total map distance of 1200 cM was constructed using 98 F7 sorghum recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from a cross between two inbred lines, B35 and Tx7000. Few cDNA clones of sorghum and maize related to photosynthesis and drought stress were mapped on this map for the first time. Five major restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) maps independently developed in this species were used for alignment purpose. The distributions of previously mapped markers were compared with their respective sorghum maps to align each of the linkage groups. In general, consistent linear order among markers was maintained in all the linkage maps. The successful alignment of these RFLP maps will now allow selection of a large number of markers for any region of the sorghum genome with many potential applications ranging from fine mapping and marker-assisted selection to map-based cloning for the improvement of sorghum and related species.
10791831	A DNA fragment representing a transcriptionally active retrotransposon of Ty3-gypsy type was isolated and characterized from rice (Oryza sativa L.). The fragment (named RIRE9) includes the coding sequences for the C-terminal part of the RNase H domain and the N-terminal part of the integrase domain in the polyprotein region. Northern blot hybridization indicated that this element was expressed in rice leaves and stems, suggesting that it is potentially active to transpose under normal growth conditions. Using dot-blot hybridization, the copy number of RIRE9 was estimated to be about 1600 copies per haploid rice genome. Five homologous copies of RIRE9 were assigned to five distinct positions of four chromosomes by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) mapping approach using an indica-japonica rice doubled-haploid (DH) population and its molecular linkage map.
10792828	Phytochromes (phy) are a family of photoreceptors that control various aspects of light-dependent plant development. Phytochrome A (phyA) is responsible for the very low fluence response (VLFR) under inductive light conditions and for the high irradiance response (HIR) under continuous far-red light. We have recently shown that nuclear import of rice phyA:GFP is regulated by VLFR in transgenic tobacco. The import is preceded by very fast, light-induced formation of sequestered areas of phyA:GFP in the cytosol. Here we report that expression of the Arabidopsis phyA:GFP fusion protein in phyA-deficient Arabidopsis plants complements the mutant phenotype. In these transgenic Arabidopsis lines, both light-dependent cytosolic formation of sequestered areas of the phyA:GFP as well as VLFR or HIR-mediated nuclear import of the fusion protein was observed. By contrast, light-dependent nuclear import of the same fusion protein was induced only by continuous far-red light (HIR) but not by pulses of far-red light (VLFR) in transgenic tobacco. These results demonstrate that photoregulation of intracellular partitioning of the Arabidopsis phyA:GFP differs significantly in different genetic backgrounds.
10793361	The aim of the study was to determine the incidence of food and house dust mite (HDM) allergy in patients with nasal congestion and rhinorrhea attending the Otorhinolaryngology Clinic, National University of Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur. This was a prospective matched, controlled study of patients skin prick tested with commercial food and common aeroallergens. The participants were 148 Malaysian adults with symptoms of nasal congestion and rhinorrhea and 113 adult Malaysian control subjects without rhinitis symptoms. The skin prick test (SPT) was used to evaluate 11 foods common to the Malaysian diet and 3 HDM inhalants. Forty-eight percent of the patients with rhinitis had positive SPT results to foods, compared with 4.4% of control subjects (P < 0.05). The most commonly implicated foods were shrimp (48%) and rice (30%), which are common in the Malaysian diet. Seventy-two percent of rhinitis patients had positive SPT results to HDM, compared with 22.2% of control subjects (P < 0.05). Patients with rhinitis also had significantly more gastrointestinal problems than control subjects (P < 0.05). The incidences of HDM and food allergy are significantly greater in Malaysian adults with rhinitis symptoms than in control subjects without rhinitis. The effect of avoidance or immunotherapy awaits further study.
10794830	European eels (Anguilla anguilla), crucian carps (Carassius carassius) and catfish (Ictalurus nebulosus) were collected in three coastal locations of the Vaccars lagoon (French National Nature Reserve of Camargue). The purpose of this paper is to report results of the first biomonitoring investigation in fish living in this protected coastal wetland. Residues of organochlorine (OC) contaminants (i.e. SigmaPCBs, gammaHCH, HCB, dieldrin, pp'-DDE) were determined in hepatic and muscular tissues, in order to compare geographical and seasonal distribution. Total exposure levels appeared to be more important in fatty fish such as eels than in crucian carps and catfish. The highest OC concentrations in liver (SigmaPCB) and in muscle (gammaHCH) were detected in Spring in some fish coming from a site located near the mouth of a canal draining irrigation waters of rice fields. Morphophysiological parameters (condition factor, organo-somatic indexes and lipid tissue composition) were measured concomitantly. Correlations between the hepatic and muscular burdens of OC and condition factor or organo somatic indexes were infrequent and rather negative. Localization of lipid accumulation (neutral or polar lipids) depended on metabolic rates of different species and appeared related to the fish trophic level.
10795309	The rice zebra mutant TCM248 is a single recessive mutant. This mutant develops transverse-striped leaves with green and white sectors under alternate light/dark growth conditions. Mutants that were grown under a higher light intensity during the light period showed a more intense striped phenotype. The white tissues contained abnormal chloroplasts with few internal membrane structures, while the green tissues in the mutants contained normal chloroplasts. The white tissue contained only trace amounts of Chls and carotenoids, and mRNA accumulation of nuclear genes encoding chloroplast proteins (rbcS, cab) was strongly suppressed compared to that in the wild type plants. A series of growth condition shift experiments demonstrated that the mutant displayed the striped phenotype only if it was exposed to the alternate light/dark growth conditions during a limited stage of early leaf development. These data suggest that the zebra gene is involved in the acquisition of photoprotective capacity of the plants and that this gene functions at an early stage of chloroplast differentiation.
10795313	We recently purified a latent but SDS-activated protease complex (40, 15- or 13-kDa proteins) from maize [Yamada et al. (1998) Plant Cell Physiol. 39: 106]. Here, we revealed that the complex was composed of a cysteine protease (40 kDa) and a cystatin, cysteine protease inhibitor (15- or 13-kDa). This is the first report on the isolation of a complex consisting of a cystatin and a target cysteine protease from plants. Cloning of the cysteine protease revealed that it had low homology (25-30%) to other maize cysteine proteases cloned to date but was highly homologous to other plant cysteine proteases such as rice oryzain alpha (84%) and the homologs (50-80%). The cysteine protease expressed in Escherichia coli showed the same substrate and inhibitor specificities as the protease of the complex, demonstrating that the isolated cDNA clone exactly encodes the protease of the complex. The protease expressed in E. coli itself was active but not latent, probably because it was not bound to cystatin. It is most likely that in vitro activation of the protease complex by SDS is caused by the release of bound cystatin. The mRNA of protease was expressed in various tissues except for seeds.
10796624	Oral rehydration therapy is used to treat dehydration caused by diarrhoea. However the rehydration solution does not reduce stool loss or length of illness. A solution able to do this may lessen the use of ineffective diarrhoea treatments as well as improve morbidity and mortality related to diarrhoea. The objective of this review was to assess the effects of rice-based oral rehydration salts solution compared with glucose-based oral rehydration salts solution on reduction of stool output and duration of diarrhoea in patients with acute watery diarrhoea. We searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group trials register, the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, Medline, Embase, Lilacs and the reference lists of relevant articles. We also contacted researchers in the field. Randomized trials comparing standard World Health Organization oral rehydration solution with an experimental oral rehydration salts solution in which glucose (20 grams per litre) was replaced by 50-80 grams per litre of rice powder, with the electrolytes remaining unchanged. Data were extracted independently by a statistician and a clinician. Twenty-two trials were included. Concealment of allocation was adequate in 15 of these trials. Irrespective of age, people with cholera who were given rice oral rehydration salts solution had substantially lower rates of stool loss than those given oral rehydration salts solution in the first 24 hours. Mean stool outputs in the first 24 hours were lower by 67 millilitres/kg of body weight (weighted mean difference -67.4, 95% confidence interval -94.3 to -41.0) in children, and by 51 millilitres/kg of body weight (weighted mean difference -51.1, 95% confidence interval -65.9 to -36.3) in adults. The rate of stool loss in infants and children with acute non-cholera diarrhoea was reduced by only four millilitres/kg of body weight (weighted mean difference -4.3, 95% confidence interval -9.3 to 0.8). Rice-based oral rehydration appears to be effective in reducing stool output in people with cholera. This effect was not apparent in infants and children with non-cholera diarrhoea.
10797639	The kinetics of the production of fusaproliferin by Fusarium subglutinans ITEM 2404 in maize and rice cultures was investigated at various incubation temperatures. The growth rate of F. subglutinans was highest at 20 degrees C and 25 degrees C in maize cultures and at 15 degrees C in rice cultures. Although the growth rate was higher in rice than in maize, the maximal production of fusaproliferin was obtained in maize cultures, with a maximum yield (4309 microg g(-1)) at 20 degrees C for 6 weeks. In rice cultures the optimal incubation regimen was at 15 degrees C for 6 weeks, with a fusaproliferin level of 1557 microg g(-1). The production of fusaproliferin at 25 degrees C and 30 degrees C in both substrates was very low, with maximal yield at 25 degrees C of 979 microg g(-1) after 2 weeks and 143 microg g(-1) after 3 weeks in maize and rice cultures, respectively.
10797640	A simple, very sensitive and rapid HPLC method was developed for the simultaneous quantitative analysis of both fusapyrone (FP) and deoxyfusapyrone (DFP), the two antifungal 3-substituted-4-hydroxy-6-alkyl-2-pyrones isolated from rice culture of Fusarium semitectum, in crude extracts. Such method was optimized on C-18 reverse phase column, using the isolated metabolites as standards, with a sequence of linear elution steps with a MeOH-H(2)O mixture and using an ultraviolet detector fixed at 285 nm, where both alpha-pyrones showed a characteristic absorption maximum. This method was used to quantify the bioactive metabolites in crude organic extracts from two F. semitectum strains. The recovery of FP and DFP was measured in a crude extract from a poor metabolite producer F. semitectum strain. The recovery values ranged from 84% to 99% for FP and from 99% to 101% for DFP, indicating that the method was close to quantitative recovery. Furthermore, an efficient medium pressure column chromatography and TLC combined method was developed for the isolation and purification of FP and DFP from fungal culture extracts.
10798347	The focus of this article is the traditional and technological uses of two tropical cereal grains: Digitaria exilis (acha) and D. iburua (iburu); with emphasis on their carbohydrate and protein components. Some useful attributes of the grains emanating from present knowledge are discussed. The major classes of traditional foods from these grains are thick and thin porridges; steam cooked products, e.g. couscous; and nonalcoholic and alcoholic beverages. The proteins in these grains are not easily extractable; however, the digestibility of the proteins are better than those of sorghum and millet. The high levels of residue protein in them may have important functional properties. Technologically, acha and iburu can be utilized in ways similar to rice. The two grains require minimal processing due to grain size and location of constituents. Whole acha and iburu grains are now used for quick cooking, non-conventional food products including weaning foods of low bulk density and breakfast cereal with good fiber content. The grains could be used in a wide variety of other products. Cookies, crackers, and popcorn, made in an almost endless array of forms are examples. The breeding of acha and iburu cultivars with good kernel properties is critically important to their utilization potential.
10798612	Flap endonuclease-1 (FEN-1) is an important enzyme involved in DNA replication and repair. We isolated a 1.4 kb cDNA from rice (Oryza sativa), termed OsFEN-1, encoding a protein which shows homology with the eukaryotic FEN-1 proteins. OsFEN-1 protein was overexpressed in Escherichia coli and purified to near homogeneity. DNA cleavage analysis using different branched DNA structures indicated that OsFEN-1 protein possesses both 5'-flap endonuclease and 5' to 3' double-stranded DNA exonuclease activities. OsFEN-1 protein incises a 5'-flap and 5'-pseudo Y structure one base 3' of the branched point in the duplex region. The enzymatic properties indicated that we succeeded in obtaining the gene and the protein of a plant counterpart of FEN-1. OsFEN-1 transcripts were expressed strongly in proliferating tissues such as root tips and young leaves that contain root apical meristem and marginal meristem, respectively. No expression was detected in mature leaves although the leaves were exposed to UV. We analyzed the spatial distribution pattern of OsFEN-1 transcripts by in situ hybridization. In the shoot apex, OsFEN-1 mRNA was abundant in the shoot apical meristem, tiller bud, leaf primordia, ligule primordia and marginal meristem of young leaves. In the roots, the transcript accumulated to high levels in the root apical meristem. Our results indicate that OsFEN-1 is expressed in tissues rich in proliferating cells, and its expression may be required for cell growth and organ formation.
10798976
108000
108001
10801947	Marginal zinc deficiency and suboptimal zinc status have been recognized in many groups of the population in both less developed and industrialized countries. Although the cause in some cases may be inadequate dietary intake of zinc, inhibitors of zinc absorption are most likely the most common causative factor. Phytate, which is present in staple foods like cereals, corn and rice, has a strong negative effect on zinc absorption from composite meals. Inositol hexaphosphates and pentaphosphates are the phytate forms that exert these negative effects, whereas the lower phosphates have no or little effect on zinc absorption. The removal or reduction of phytate by enzyme (phytase) treatment, precipitation methods, germination, fermentation or plant breeding/genetic engineering markedly improves zinc absorption. Iron can have a negative effect on zinc absorption, if given together in a supplement, whereas no effect is observed when the same amounts are present in a meal as fortificants. Cadmium, which is increasing in the environment, also inhibits zinc absorption. The amount of protein in a meal has a positive effect on zinc absorption, but individual proteins may act differently; e.g., casein has a modest inhibitory effect of zinc absorption compared with other protein sources. Amino acids, such as histidine and methionine, and other low-molecular-weight ions, such as EDTA and organic acids (e.g., citrate), are known to have a positive effect on zinc absorption and have been used for zinc supplements. Knowledge about dietary factors that inhibit zinc absorption and about ways to overcome or remove these factors is essential when designing strategies to improve the zinc nutrition of vulnerable groups.
10802604
10803554	The risk assessment procedures of pesticides in the European Union are mostly based on worst-case scenarios developed for central and northern European conditions. From the point of view of Mediterranean conditions, these assessment procedures are not always appropriate, and therefore the development of specific scenarios is required. There are differences not only in meteorological data (temperature, solar irradiation, or rainfall volume and annual distribution) between these countries, but also in farm distribution, crop characteristics, soil or sediment properties and surface or groundwater characteristics. These differences are more evident for the typical crops of the southern countries, such as olive groves, vineyards, citrus or rice fields, and in these cases more realistic estimates of exposure are required. Our proposal includes the development of new criteria to improve the ecological risk assessment process for the conditions of the Mediterranean region, and the justification of this need.
10803956	The application of methionine on wounded rice leaves induced the production of rice phytoalexins, sakuranetin and momilactone A. This induction resulted from stimulation of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and naringenin 7-O-methyltransferase activity. Jasmonic acid, ethylene, and active oxygen species are important as signal transducers in disease resistance mechanisms. However, although the endogenous level of jasmonic acid rapidly increased in reaction to wound, methionine treatment could not induced endogenous JA production. Ethylene induced the production of the flavonoid phytoalexin, sakuranetin, but did not induce the production of a terpenoid phytoalexin, momilactone A. On the other hand, a free radical scavenger, Tiron, counteracted the induction of both sakuranetin and momilactone A production in methionine-treated leaves. Active oxygen species may be important in methionine-induced production of phytoalexins.
10804729	Emission from rice straw burning (ERSB) is observed everywhere after harvest of rice in Niigata Prefecture every year. Pediatricians and many guardians in this district have had the impression that ERSB may induce asthma attack. Recent studies have suggested that particulate air pollution plays a role in the exacerbation of asthma. The authors investigated relationship of ERSB to asthma attack in children. A questionnaire on rice straw burning (RSB) was circulated to guardians and pediatric institutions. Change in the monthly number of children with asthma attack (CAA) for 5 years from January 1994 to December 1998 was investigated. In addition, change in the number of CAA from the meteorologic conditions and RSB was investigated from the fourth week of August to the third week of September in 1996, 1997 and 1998. Challenge test exposure to ERSB was tried on a volunteer adult with chronic asthma. The situation of air pollution was examined by measuring suspended particulate matter (PM10). The relationship between PM10 and the number of CAA was studied. A majority of the guardians had the impression that ERSB induces asthma attack. Pediatricians replied similarly to the questionnaire. The number of CAA visiting our emergency room and admitted to our ward increased in the season of RSB. The PM10 had a significant correlation with the number of CAA. It was suggested that the increase in CAA may be not due to the meteorologic conditions, but to the influence of ERSB. The ERSB has made an issue of air pollution. Furthermore, the possibility that ERSB induces or exacerbates asthma attack has become clear in the present study. Therefore, it is recommended that RSB should be abolished for the health of inhabitants, especially children with asthma.
10804977
10805458	A previously unidentified extension of an open reading frame from the genomic DNA of Japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) encoding oryzacystatin-I (OC-I; access. M29259, protein ID AAA33912.1) has been identified as a 5' gene segment coding for the OC-I signal peptide. The signal peptide appears to direct a pre-protein (SPOC-I; Accession No. AF164378) to the endoplasmic reticulum, where it is processed into the mature form of OC-I. The start codon of SPOC-I begins 114 bp upstream from that previously published for OC-I. A putative proteolytic site. which may yield a mature OC-I approximately 12 residues larger than previously described, has been identified within SPOC-I between Ala-26 and Glu-27. The signal peptide sequence was amplified by polymerase chain reaction using genomic DNA from O. sativa seedlings and ligated to the 5' end of the truncated OC-I gene at the endogenous SalI site. Partially purified protein extracts from Escherichia coli expressing SPOC-I reacted with polyclonal antibodies raised against OC-I and revealed a protein of the expected molecular weight (15,355 Da). In-vitro translation of SPOC-I in the presence of microsomal membranes yielded a processed product approximately 2.7 kDa smaller than the pre-protein. Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Xanthi plants independently transformed with the SPOC-I gene processed SPOC-I and accumulated the mature form of OC-I (approximately 12.6 kDa), which co-migrated with natural, mature OC-I extracted from rice seed when separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
10805595	Post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) has been shown to occur in many transgenic dicotyledonous plants. Although transgene silencing has been documented in transgenic monocots, PTGS has been only recently described in monocotyledonous plants. To study PTGS in rice, we generated 25 transgenic rice cell lines in which the 35S-gus gene was stably integrated. In one transgenic cell line, lack of gus expression was shown to be caused by PTGS based on the results of run-on transcription assays. Furthermore, to examine whether reintroduction of the same plasmid DNA into cells in which the gus gene was highly expressed causes the suppression of the gus expression, the gus plasmid was introduced into protoplasts isolated from a high gus-expressing line. Results of the kinetic analysis of the GUS activities in transfected protoplasts indicated that the gus expression in transfected protoplasts was suppressed by the gus plasmid but not by the luc plasmid harboring the 35S-luciferase gene, suggesting that suppression of the gus expression by introduced plasmid DNA was homology-dependent. These results suggest that the transgenic protoplasts may be a useful experimental system to study PTGS in rice and other species.
10805599	Two cDNA clones, pOS-ACO2 and pOS-ACO3, encoding 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) oxidase were isolated from rice seedling cDNA library. pOS-ACO3 is a 1,299 bp full-length clone encoding 321 amino acids (Mr=35.9 kDa), while pOS-ACO2 is 1,072 bp long and is a partial cDNA clone encoding 314 amino acids. These two deduced amino acid sequences share 70% identity, and display a high degree of sequence identity (72-92%) with previously isolated pOS-ACO1 of deepwater rice. The chromosomal location studies show that OS-ACO2 is positioned on the long arm of chromosome 9, while OS-ACO3 on the long arm of chromosome 2 of rice genome. A marked increase in the level of OS-ACO2 transcript was observed in IAA-treated etiolated rice seedlings, whereas the OS-ACO3 mRNA was greatly accumulated by ethylene treatment. Results of ethylene inhibitor studies indicated that auxin promotion of the OS-ACO2 transcription was not mediated through the action of auxin-induced ethylene. Thus, it appears that there are two groups of ACC oxidase transcripts in rice plants, either auxin-induced or ethylene-induced. The auxin-induced OS-ACO2 expression was partially inhibited by ethylene, while ethylene induction of OS-ACO3 transcription was completely blocked by auxin. These results indicate that the expression of ACC oxidase genes is regulated by complex hormonal networks in a gene specific manner in rice seedlings. Okadaic acid, a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatase, effectively suppressed the IAA induction of OS-ACO2 expression, suggesting that protein dephosphorylation plays a role in the induction of ACC oxidase by auxin. A scheme of the multiple regulatory pathways for the expression of ACC oxidase gene family by auxin, ethylene and protein phosphatase is presented.
10808066	Anther culture response for the variety Taipei-309 was compared using anthers of ratooned and non-ratooned plants. Anthers were plated onto N6 liquid media with 0, 2, 5, and 10 mg l(-1) ABA, respectively. After 5 days in culture, the media were removed and N6 medium without ABA was added. A higher number of pre-mitotic P-pollen grains were observed in anthers from ratooned plants. A significant synergistic effect was found between anthers from ratooned plants/ABA concentrations and the increase in embryogenic-like structures (ELS) induction and green plant regeneration efficiency. The highest frequency of anthers producing ELS was found in N6 medium (6% Sucrose and 2 mg l(-1) 2,4-D) with 5 and 10 mg l(-1) ABA for anthers derived from ratooned plants. Mean green plant regeneration efficiencies were raised from 24.2 to 42% (non-ratooned), and from 30 to 70%, (ratooned donor plants) using a combination of 10 mg l(-1) ABA in induction media, and MS with 2 mg l(-1) BAP, 1 mg l(-1) NAA, 2 mg l(-1) kinetin and 0.45% agarose. The highest number of green shoots per ELS were obtained from ratooned-derived anthers (up to 82). The use of ratooned plants in anther culture, its importance and relative advantages are also discussed.
10809004	This report describes the stable expression of a medically important antibody in the staple cereal crops rice and wheat. We successfully expressed a single-chain Fv antibody (ScFvT84.66) against carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), a well characterized tumor-associated marker antigen. scFv constructs were engineered for recombinant antibody targeting to the plant cell apoplast and ER. Up to 30 microg/g of functional recombinant antibody was detected in the leaves and seeds of wheat and rice. We confirmed that transgenic dry seeds could be stored for at least five months at room temperature, without significant loss of the amount or activity of scFvT84.66. Our results represent the first transition from model plant expression systems, such as tobacco and Arabidopsis, to widely cultivated cereal crops, such as rice and wheat, for expression of an antibody molecule that has already shown efficacy in clinical applications. Thus, we have established that molecular pharming in cereals can be a viable production system for such high-value pharmaceutical macromolecules. Our findings provide a strong foundation for exploiting alternative uses of cereal crops both in industrialized and developing countries.
10809440	The R and B genes of maize regulate the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway and constitute a small gene family whose evolution has been shaped by polyploidization and transposable element activity. To compare the evolution of regulatory genes in the distinct but related genomes of rice and maize, we previously isolated two R homologues from rice (Oryza sativa). The Ra1 gene on chromosome 4 can activate the anthocyanin pathway, whereas the Rb gene, of undetermined function, maps to chromosome 1. In this study, rice R genes have been further characterized. First, we found that an Rb cDNA can induce pigmentation in maize suspension cells. Second, another rice R homologue (Ra2) was identified that is more closely related to Ra1 than to Rb. Domesticated rice and its wild relatives harbor multiple Ra-like and Rb-like genes despite the fact that rice is a true diploid with the smallest genome of all the grass species analyzed to date. Finally, several miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) were found in R family members. Their possible role in hastening the divergence of R genes is discussed.
10809784	Plant cells in culture secrete a sulfated peptide named phytosulfokine-alpha (PSK-alpha), and this peptide induces the cell division and/or cell differentiation by means of specific high and low affinity receptors. Putative receptor proteins for this autocrine type growth factor were identified by photoaffinity labeling of plasma membrane fractions derived from rice suspension cells. Incubation of membranes with a photoactivable (125)I-labeled PSK-alpha analog, [N(epsilon)-(4-azidosalicyl)Lys(5)]PSK-alpha (AS-PSK-alpha), followed by UV irradiation resulted in specific labeling of 120- and 160-kDa bands in SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The labeling of both bands was completely inhibited by unlabeled PSK-alpha and partially decreased by PSK-alpha analogs possessing moderate binding activities. In contrast, PSK-alpha analogs that have no biological activity showed no competition for (125)I-AS-PSK-alpha binding, confirming the specificity of binding proteins. Analysis of the affinity of (125)I incorporation into the protein by ligand saturation experiments gave apparent K(d) values of 5.0 nm for the 120-kDa band and 5.4 nm for the 160-kDa band, suggesting that both proteins correspond to the high affinity binding site. Treatment of (125)I-AS-PSK-alpha cross-linked proteins with peptide N-glycosidase F demonstrated that both proteins contained approximately 10 kDa of N-linked oligosaccharides. Specific cross-linking of (125)I-AS-PSK-alpha was also observed by using plasma membranes derived from carrot and tobacco cells, indicating the widespread occurrence of the binding proteins. Together, these data suggest that the 120- and 160-kDa proteins are PSK-alpha receptors that mediate the biological activities of PSK-alpha.
10810152	Partial acid/enzymatic hydrolysis of the beta-(1-->3, 1-->6)-glucan from the cell walls of the rice blast disease fungus Pyricularia oryzae (Magnaporthe grisea) released elicitor-active fragments that induced phytoalexin biosynthesis in suspension-cultured rice cells. From the digestion of the glucan by an endo-beta-(1-->3)-glucanase, one highly elicitor-active glucopentaose was purified as a reduced compound, tetraglucosyl glucitol. The structure of this tetraglucosyl glucitol as well as two other related tetraglucosyl glucitols was elucidated as follows: (1) Glcbeta(1-->3)Glcbeta(1-->3)(Glcbeta(1-->6)) Glcbeta(1-->3)Glucitol (most active fragment); (2) Glcbeta(1-->3)(Glcbeta(1-->6))Glcbeta(1-->3)Glcbeta (1-->3)Glucitol; and (3) Glcbeta(1-->6) Glcbeta(1-->3)Glcbeta(1-->3)Glcbeta(1-->3)Glucitol. However, a synthetic hexa-beta-glucoside, known as a minimal structural element for the phytoalexin elicitor for soybean cotyledon cells, did not induce phytoalexin biosynthesis in the rice cells. Conversely, the beta-glucan fragment from P. oryzae did not induce phytoalexin biosynthesis in the soybean cotyledon cells, indicating differences in the recognition of glucooligosaccharide elicitor signals in these two plants. Because rice cells have been shown to recognize chitin fragments larger than pentamers as potent elicitors, these results also indicate that the rice cells can recognize at least two types of oligosaccharides from fungal cell walls as signal molecules to initiate defense response.
10814196	A series of brassinosteroids with different alkyl or cycloalkyl substituents in place of the isopropyl group at C-24 of brassinolide (1) were prepared by the CuCN-catalyzed addition of Grignard reagents to (threo-2R,3S,5alpha,22R,23R,24S)-23,24-epoxy-6, 6-(ethylenedioxy)-2,3-(isopropylidenedioxy)-26, 27-dinorcholestan-22-ol (9), followed by deketalization and Baeyer-Villiger oxidation. Compound 9 was employed as part of a 70:30 threo/erythro mixture of epoxides 9 and 10, from which the erythro-epoxide 10 was recovered intact after the Grignard additions. Thus, the corresponding n-dodecyl, n-hexyl, n-propyl, tert-butyl, cyclohexyl, cyclopentyl, cyclobutyl, and cyclopropyl analogues of brassinolide were obtained. A rearrangement byproduct was observed during the preparation of the cyclopropyl-substituted brassinosteroid when ether was used as the solvent in the Grignard reaction, but could be avoided by the use of THF. A method for recycling the undesired erythro-epoxide 10 was developed on the basis of deoxygenation with tellurium and lithium triethylborohydride. The rice leaf lamina inclination assay was then used to measure the bioactivity of the products. In general, increasing activity was observed as the length or ring size of the C-24 hydrocarbon substituent decreased. The novel cyclobutyl- and cyclopropyl-substituted analogues of brassinolide (1) were ca. 5-7 times as active as 1 and thus appear to be the most potent brassinosteroids reported to date. Further enhancement of the bioactivity of all of the above brassinosteroids, except that of the inactive n-dodecyl derivative, was observed when the brassinosteroid was applied together with an auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). The synergy between the brassinosteroids and IAA thus increased the bioactivity of the brassinosteroids, including the cyclopropyl and cyclobutyl derivatives, by ca. 1-2 orders of magnitude.
10814814	The plant MADS-box gene family plays a key role in plant development, especially in flower development. We designed degenerate primer according to the MADS-box conserved region and isolated two cDNA from rice, FDRMADS6 and FDRMADS7, which are homologous to AP1. RT-PCR expression analyses by using total RNA isolated from root, shoot and flower showed that the FDRMADS6 transcript was detectable only in flower while FDRMADS7 was expressed in all three tissues. In situ hybridization experiments indicated that at the early stage of rice flower development, the transcripts of FDRMADS6 and FDRMADS7 were detected in the spikelet apical meristem, which were same as AP1. At the late stage, when flower organ primordia started differentiating, the expression of FDRMADS6 appeared to be specifically localized in developing stamens and the pistil primordia, while the transcripts of FDRMADS7 were detectable abundantly throughout the organ primordia. Our results suggest the two MADS-box genes may be members of the AP1 family, but may have different functions.
10814825	An inducible S-adenosyl-L-methionine:naringenin 7-O-methyltransferase (NOMT) catalyzing the methylation of naringenin to sakuranetin, a major rice phytoalexin was purified approximately 985-fold from ultraviolet (UV)-irradiated rice leaves. The enzyme is not found in healthy tissues and was purified to a nearly homogeneous preparation in one step using adenosine-agarose affinity chromatography, with 1 g rice leaves (UV-irradiated) as starting material. Gel filtration chromatography resulted in an almost pure enzyme, as evidenced by a major band migrating to a position corresponding to a molecular mass of approximately 41 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The purified NOMT was strongly inhibited by Mn(2+), Ni(2+), Cu(2+), Zn(2+), Hg(2+), and Cd(2+), and to a low degree by Co(2+), Mg(2+), Ba(2+), Ca(2+) and ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid. The amino acid sequence of a NOMT cyanogen bromide (CNBr)-cleavage peptide was highly homologous to that of a caffeic acid 3-O-methyltransferase from maize, and about 70% of the amino acid sequence was obtained after sequencing the peptides generated by CNBr and/or formic acid hydrolysis. NOMT was also shown to be induced in a time-dependent manner, and purified from rice leaves treated with jasmonic acid and copper chloride.
10815013	Byakko-ka-ninjin-to (BN) is composed of gypsum, the root of anemarrhena, ginseng, licorice and rice. The effect of BN on the inhibition of itch was studied using an NC mouse model of atopic dermatitis. BN (200 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly inhibited the scratching frequency in NC mice, and decreased the skin temperature by 1.97 degrees C. The cooling action on the skin by BN may be involved in the inhibitory mechanism of itch, at least in part, since cooling the skin is known to inhibit the itch sensation in humans. Although the myocyte-specific enhancer binding factor 2C (MEF2C) mRNA is known to be increased in the cerebral cortex correlated with the itch sensation and skin lesions in NC mice, BN did not affect the expression level of the MEF2C mRNA. This result suggests that the inhibitory effect of BN on itch does not relate to inhibition of MEF2C expression in the cerebral cortex. The present study indicates that BN has an inhibitory effect on itch, and may be a useful antipruritic drug for atopic dermatitis.
1081506
10816747	The efficacy of permethrin-treated Olyset Net mosquito nets in preventing transmission and morbidity of malaria was studied in Kafine, a village in the rice-growing region of the Cote d'Ivoire. Entomological data demonstrated that permethrin-treated mosquito nets failed to reduce transmission of malaria. Laboratory tests showed that Anopheles gambiae s.s. in Kafine were resistant to permethrin and other pyrethroids. Study included a cohort of 163 children under five years of age who did or did not use mosquito nets. The number of patients seeking treatment for malaria attacks with fever was recorded weekly. No difference was found between the user and non-user groups with regard to the percentage of children exhibiting Plasmodium flaciparum trophozoites or gametocytes or to the mean parasite load. However the rate of high density parasitemia and malaria attacks was twice as high in the non-user group. This difference between users and non-users of mosquito nets cannot be explained only as the result of a physical barrier against bites. In areas where mosquitoes are resistant to pyrethroids, tests conducted in experimental huts have shown that impregnated mosquito nets reduce host/vector contact. However further study will be need to evaluate the overall impact of impregnated nets on malaria in the areas where mosquitoes are resistant to insecticides.
10817969	We investigated the histology and developmental morphology of flowers of wild-rice (Zizania aquatica), a member of grass subfamily Oryzoideae, to determine whether male flowers in this species develop in a manner similar to those in the subfamily Panicoideae, a group that includes many species with unisexual flowers. Zizania has evolved unisexual flowers from hermaphrodite ancestors and is only distantly related to the Panicoideae; the origins of unisexual flowers are independent in the two taxa. Ontogenetic evidence indicates that many species within the subfamily Panicoideae develop male flowers by a process similar to that already described for maize (Zea mays), a panicoid grass. Unisexual male flowers in maize initiate both the stamen (androecium) and the pistil (gynoecium), but the gynoecium aborts early in development through the death of the subepidermal cells. Cell death in gynoecia of maize is known to be controlled by the product of the gene tasselseed2 (ts2), and an orthologue of ts2 has been shown to have the same effect in the sister genus Tripsacum. It seems likely that ts2 orthologues mediate cell death throughout the Panicoideae, but the phylogenetic range of the cell death mechanism is not known. In this study we show that male flowers of Z. aquatica show neither the distinctive pattern of cell death nor the ontogenetic timing of abortion that are characteristic of male flower formation in studied species of Panicoideae. This indicates that these unisexual flowers may be produced by an entirely different mechanism from that employed by the Panicoideae. Either ts2 does not control sex expression in Zizania, or it is deployed at a different time, and possibly in different tissues, with a different histological result. Our results indicate that the independent origins of male flowers in Gramineae apparently do not have a common system of genetic control.
10818825	This pilot project employed a case study design consistent with that of Rice to describe the impact of violence on individuals who incurred a work related assault in 1992. Ten randomly selected subjects were interviewed from a population of 429 individuals reporting a work related assault that resulted in a wage loss claim. Half of the subjects had received permanency ratings, thought to be a measure of injury severity. The study hypothesis, stating the impact of the assault (e.g., pain and suffering, decrease in functioning) years after a work related assault was associated with the severity of the injury (i.e., permanency rating), was not supported by the data. However, individuals' health and quality of life 4 years after the assault were affected significantly and resulted in job changes, chronic pain, changes in functional status, and depression. The new hypothesis resulting from this study is employer support and mental health intervention immediately after an assault may prevent employee job changes and decrease mental health sequelae.
10819173	Copper (Cu) contamination was investigated in paddy soils where Cu-rich wastewater (12 mg Cu/l) was used for irrigation. The results showed that Cu contamination increased the soil Cu content from 17.0 mg Cu/kg in the non-wastewater irrigated soils (NWIS) to 101.2 mg Cu/kg in the wastewater irrigated soils (WIS), and Cu accumulated mostly in the surface layer (0-10 cm) of the paddy soil. The average Cu contents in brown rice, rice hull and rice straw from NWIS were 1.4, 7.3 and 14.5 mg Cu/kg, while those from WIS were 15.5, 133.2, and 101.4 mg Cu/kg, respectively. Correlation analysis revealed that the relationship between the Cu content in the rice straw and the rice hull with the total Cu content of the soil could be described by an exponential function (R2 = 0.921 and 0.831, respectively; P <0.01). Rice plants grown in the WIS showed symptoms of black roots, less effective tiller, etc. Subsequently, the rice yield decreased by 18-25%, compared with that grown in NWIS.
10819205	The effects of chemical amendments (calcium carbonate (CC), steel sludge (SS) and furnace slag (FS)) on the growth and uptake of cadmium (Cd) by wetland rice, Chinese cabbage and wheat grown in a red soil contaminated with Cd were investigated using a pot experiment. The phytoremediation of heavy metal contaminated soil with vetiver grass was also studied in a field plot experiment. Results showed that treatments with CC, SS and FS decreased Cd uptake by wetland rice, Chinese cabbage and wheat by 23-95% compared with the unamended control. Among the three amendments, FS was the most efficient at suppressing Cd uptake by the plants, probably due to its higher content of available silicon (Si). The concentrations of zinc (Zn), lead (Pb) and Cd in the shoots of vetiver grass were 42-67%, 500-1200% and 120-260% higher in contaminated plots than in control, respectively. Cadmium accumulation by vetiver shoots was 218 g Cd/ha at a soil Cd concentration of 0.33 mg Cd/kg. It is suggested that heavy metal-contaminated soil could be remediated with a combination of chemical treatments and plants.
10819324	Thai jasmine rice, KDML 105, is known as the best quality rice. It is known not only for its aroma but also for its good cooking and eating qualities. Amylose content (AC), gel consistency (GC) and gelatinization temperature (GT) are important traits determining rice quality. A population of recombinant inbred lines (RIL) derived from KDML105 x CT9993 cross was used to study the genetic control of AC, GC and GT traits. A total of 191 markers were used in the linkage map construction. The 1605.3 cM linkage map covering nearly the whole rice genome was used for QTL (define QTL) analysis. Four QTLs for AC were detected on chromosomes 3, 4, 6 and 7. These QTLs accounted for 80% of phenotypic variation explained (PVE) in AC. The presence of one major gene as well as several modifiers was responsible for the expression of the trait. Two QTLs on chromosome 6 and one on chromosome 7 were detected for GC, which accounts for 57% of PVE. A single gene of major effect along with modifier genes controls GC from this cross. The QTLs in the vicinity of waxy locus were major contributors in the expression of AC and GC. The finding that the position of QTLs for AC and GC were near each other may reflect tight linkage or pleiotropy. Three QTLs were detected, one on chromosome 2 and two on chromosome 6, which accounted for 67% of PVE in GT. Just like AC and GC, one major gene and modifier genes governed the variation in GT resulting from the KDML105 x CT9993 cross. Breeding for cooking and eating qualities will largely rely on the preferences of the end users.
10820073	Rice bran has been reported to inhibit pancreatic lipase activity in vitro. This action shows that administration of rice bran may result in a decrease in plasma triglyceride levels and suppress accumulation of fat in vivo. We administered water extract of defatted rice bran (WED-rice bran) to rats to determine its effects. Single administration of WED-rice bran at a dose of 1 g/kg body weight caused a decrease in plasma triglyceride levels in fat emulsion induced hypertriglyceridemic rats. Four week administration of WED-rice bran suppressed accumulation of visceral fat and body weight gain without influencing food consumption, liver function, and renal function. These results indicate that a reduction of plasma triglycerides and suppression of visceral fat accumulation may be induced by pancreatic lipase inhibition caused by administration of WED-rice bran.
10821172	This paper describes a fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of three different repetitive sequence families, which were mapped to mitotic metaphase chromosomes and extended DNA fibers (EDFs) of the two subspecies of rice (OrYza sativa), indica and japonica (2n = 2x = 24). The repeat families studied were (1) the tandem repeat sequence A (TrsA), a functionally non-significant repeat; (2) the [TTTA-GGG]n telomere sequence, a non-transcribed, tandemly repeated but functionally significant repeat; and (3) the 5S ribosomal RNA (5S rDNA). FISH of the TrsA repeat to metaphase chromosomes of indica and japonica cultivars revealed clear signals at the distal ends of twelve and four chromosomes, respectively. As shown in a previous report, the 17S ribosomal RNA genes (17S rDNA) are located at the nucleolus organizers (NORs) on chromosomes 9 and 10 of the indica cultivar. However, the japonica rice lacked the rDNA signals on chromosome 10. The size of the 5S rDNA repeat block, which was mapped on the chromosome 11 of both cultivars, was 1.22 times larger in the indica than in the japonica genome. The telomeric repeat arrays at the distal ends of all chromosome arms were on average three times longer in the indica genome than in the japonica genome. Flow cytometric measurements revealed that the nuclear DNA content of indica rice is 9.7% higher than that of japonica rice. Our data suggest that different repetitive sequence families contribute significantly to the variation in genome size between indica and japonica rice, though to different extents. The increase or decrease in the copy number of several repetitive sequences examined here may indicate the existence of a directed change in genome size in rice. Possible reasons for this phenomenon of concurrent evolution of various repeat families are discussed.
10822284	To study the influence of parboiling and the severity of the process on glycaemic and insulinaemic responses to rice in type 2 diabetes. Moreover, to examine changes in starch structure related to parboiling, which may affect the metabolic responses and digestibility. Nine type 2 diabetic subjects ingested four test meals: white bread (WB) and three meals of cooked polished rice of the same variety being non-parboiled (NP), mildly traditionally parboiled (TP) and severely pressure parboiled (PP). The participants ingested the test meals (50 g available carbohydrates) on separate occasions after an overnight fast. Outpatient clinic, Dept. Endocrinology and Metabolism, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark. All three rice samples elicited lower postprandial plasma glucose response (NP: 335+/-43; TP: 274+/-53; PP: 231+/-37 mmol/1*180 min.; means+/-s.e.m.) than white bread (626+/-80; P<0.001), within rice samples PP tended to be lower than NP (P=0.07). The glycaemic indices were: NP: 55+/-5, TP: 46+/-8 and PP: 39+/-6, and lower for PP than NP (P<0.05). The insulin responses were similar for the three rice meals, which were all lower than that to white bread (P<0.001). Differential scanning calorimetry showed the presence of amylose-lipid complexes in all rice samples and of retrograded amylopectin in PP. Amylose retrogradation was not detected in any of the rice samples. All rice test meals were low-glycaemic in type 2 diabetic subjects. There was no effect of TP on glycaemic index, whereas PP reduced the glycaemic index by almost 30% compared to NP. The Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University, Aarhus University Hospital, Danish International Development Assistance (DANIDA), Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the 'Konsul Johannes Fogh-Nielsens og Fru Ella Fogh-Nielsens Legat' foundation.
10824961	Recovery responses of intestinal villus height and fine structure on the villus apical surface to different refeeding procedures were compared at refeeding 3 or 24 h after 3-d of feed withdrawal from chicks. After 3-d of fasting, 45-d-old male White Leghorn chicks (Gallus gallus domesticus) were refed rice bran (RB) (CP, 14.8%; ME, 3,170 kcal/kg), conventional grower mash diet (CG) (CP, 18.2%; ME, 2,853 kcal/kg), or ground CG (GG). During the experimental period, birds were given access to diets and water ad libitum. After the end of each experimental period, the duodenum was fixed and examined by light and scanning electron microscopy for morphological changes in the villi. Duodenal villus heights of chicks fasted for 3 d were significantly decreased compared with control chicks fed ad libitum. Villus heights were significantly increased after a 3-h refeeding, and the villi of the GG-refed group were significantly higher than RB and CG. When compared with villus heights at the 3-h refeeding, the RB-refed group showed no changes after a 24-h refeeding, but the CG and GG groups had significantly increased villi heights. Villi heights in GG groups were significantly higher than in the CG groups. Dietary effects on cell area and cell mitosis numbers were similar to those observed for villus height. The surface of the duodenal villi apices of control birds fed ad libitum revealed a clear cell outline, cell protuberances, and cell extrusion into the lumen. After 3-d fasting, cell outlines became faint, and protuberances and extrusion of cells disappeared. After refeeding for 3 h, clear cell outlines were again apparent in all groups. In GG-refed chicks, larger cell outlines and protuberated cells were found as conspicuous morphological features. Similar observations were made at the 24-h refeeding. These morphological findings suggest that chickens that were on feed withdrawal benefit from ad libitum refeeding of a powdered diet that is nutritionally complete for rapid recovery of digestive function.
10825563	The monolithic osmotic tablet system, which is composed of a monolithic tablet coated with cellulose acetate (CA) membrane drilled with two orifices on both side surfaces, has been described. The influences of tablet formulation variables including molecular weight (MW) and amount of polyethylene oxide (PEO), amount of potassium chloride (KCl), and amount of rice starch as well as nifedipine loading have been investigated. The optimal tablet formulation and the osmotic-suspending co-controlled delivery mechanisms have been proposed. Orifice size and membrane variables including nature and amount of plasticizers as well as thickness on drug release have also been studied. The in vitro release profiles of the optimal system have been evaluated in various release media and different agitation rates, and compared with commercialized conventional capsule and push-pull osmotic tablet. It was found that PEO with MW of 300000 g/mol was suitable to be thickening agent, both amount of KCl and amount of PEO had comparable and profoundly positive effects, while nifedipine loading had a strikingly negative influence on drug release. It could be found that the optimal orifice size was in the range of 0.25-1.41 mm. It has also been observed that hydrophilic plasticizer polyethylene glycol (PEG) improved drug release, whereas hydrophobic plasticizer triacetin depressed drug release when they were incorporated in CA membrane. The monolithic osmotic tablet system was found to be able to deliver nifedipine at the rate of approximate zero-order up to 24 h, independent of both environmental media and agitation rate, and substantially comparable with the push-pull osmotic tablet. The monolithic osmotic tablet system was simple to be prepared as exempting from push layer and simplifying in the orifice drilling compared with the push-pull osmotic tablet. The monolithic osmotic tablet system may be used in drug controlled delivery field, especially suitable for water-insoluble drugs.
10826172	Field experiments were conducted from 1989 to 1992 to determine the effects of Oebalus ornatus (Sailer) on Cica 8 rice, Oryza sativa L., yield and to study the population dynamics of the insect. The effect of O. ornatus was measured for seven population levels (0, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, and 24 sexed pairs per 20 panicles) at three stages of grain development (flowering, milk, and soft dough stage). Insect feeding during the flowering and milk stages of grain development caused more damage than feeding during the soft dough stage. The action threshold was calculated to be 14 O. ornatus adults per square meter for the flowering and milk stages and 67 for the soft dough stage of grain maturity. Population densities that would reduce rice yield in southwestern Colombia were not observed during the 3 yr of the study.
10826204	The resistance of vegetative, booting, and flowering stage plants of a variety of an aromatic rice, Oryza sativa L., transformed with a Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner cry1Ab gene under control of the maize phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) promoter was evaluated against four lepidopterous rice pests--the stem borers Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) and Scirpophaga incertulas (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), and the foliage feeders Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guene (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) and Naranga aenescens Moore (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). Plants of the cry1Ab-transformed line (no. 827) were more resistant to young larvae of S. incertulas, C. suppressalis, and C. medinalis than control plants at the vegetative stage but not at the flowering stage. Survival of 10-d-old stem borer larvae did not differ on cry1Ab plants and control plants at either the vegetative or flowering stage, but the development of 10-d-old C. suppressalis larvae was retarded on the vegetative stage cry1Ab plants. Immunological analysis also showed an apparent decline in Cry1Ab titer in leaf blades and leaf sheaths at the reproductive stage. In experiments comparing three fertilizer treatments (NPK, PK, and none), there was a significant interaction between fertilizer treatment and variety on larval survival only in whole-plant assays at booting stage with C. suppressalis. On cry1Ab plants, larval survival did not differ significantly among the three fertilizer levels, whereas on control plants survival was highest with the NPK treatment. cry1Ab plants tested at the sixth and seventh generations after transformation were more resistant than control plants to N. aenescens and C. suppressalis, respectively, suggesting that gene silencing will not occur in line 827. The results of the experiments are discussed in terms of resistance management for B. thuringiensis toxins in rice.
10826719	The antimicrobial activity of carvacrol, a compound present in the essential oil fraction of oreganum and thyme, toward the foodborne pathogen Bacillus cereus on rice was studied. Carvacrol showed a dose-related inhibition of growth of the pathogen. Concentrations of 0.15 mg/g and higher inhibited the growth and the extent of inhibition depended on the initial inoculum size. To decrease the input of carvacrol on the taste and flavor of the product, a combined treatment with the structure analog cymene was tested. Due to the smell and taste of carvacrol at high concentrations, carvacrol was combined with cymene, a natural antimicrobial compound with a similar structure. A synergistic effect was observed when 0.30 mg/g carvacrol was combined with 0.27 mg/g cymene. Finally it was demonstrated that a common taste enhancer like soya sauce also increased the antimicrobial action of carvacrol toward B. cereus. The antimicrobial activity of carvacrol with cymene or soya sauce was influenced by the addition of NaCl.
10827182	Macrophage spreading requires the microtubule cytoskeleton and protein kinase C (PKC). The mechanism of involvement of the microtubules and PKC in this event is not fully understood. Dynamitin is a subunit of dynactin, which is important for linking the microtubule-dependent motor protein dynein to vesicle membranes. We report that dynamitin is a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-binding protein and that dynamitin binds directly to macrophage-enriched myristoylated alanine-rice C kinase substrate (MacMARCKS), a membrane-associated PKC substrate involved in macrophage spreading and integrin activation. Dynamitin was found to copurify with MacMARCKS both during MacMARCKS purification with conventional chromatography and during the immunoabsorption of MacMARCKS using anti-MacMARCKS antibody. Vice versa, MacMARCKS was also found to cosediment with the 20 S dynactin complex. We determined that the effector domain of MacMARCKS is required to interact with the N-terminal domain of dynamitin. MacMARCKS and dynamitin also partially colocalized at peripheral regions of macrophages and in the cell-cell border of 293 epithelial cells. Treatment with phorbol esters abolished this colocalization. Disrupting the interaction with a short peptide derived from the MacMARCKS-binding domain of dynamitin caused macrophages to spread and flatten. These data suggest that the dynamitin-MacMARCKS interaction is involved in cell spreading. Furthermore, the regulation of this interaction by PKC and Ca(2+)/calmodulin provides a possible regulatory mechanism for cell adhesion and spreading.
10829900	A comprehensive survey was carried out to asses the Vitamin A status of pre-school (0-6 yrs). and school age (6-12 yrs.) children of socio-economically backward families from slums of Bombay and its suburbs. The Vitamin A, protein, calories and iron from the rice and dal based diet was found to be below recommended dietary allowances (RDA). Among the 1956 children surveyed 20% of the children showed low (< 20 micrograms/dl) serum vitamin A levels. 4.8% of the children were suffering from one or the other signs of Vitamin A deficiency. Rose Bengal stain test (RBST) and conjuctival impression cytology (CIC) indicted the signs of mild conjuctival xerosis and of early epithelial changes which were correlated with serum vitamin A levels. Serum iron, PCV, Hb and RBC levels were below normal. The anthropometric measurements of these children were below 50th percentile of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) standards. Due to lack of proper nutrition, the overall growth of children is either retarded or not upto the standard levels as was noted in majority of the children.
10830575	A prospective case-control study was conducted in Trivandrum, India, to evaluate the dietary risk factors for stomach cancer. One hundred and ninety-four patients with stomach cancer registered at the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC), Trivandrum, Kerala, India, during the period 1988-1991 were considered as cases. A minimum of one control (n = 305), matched for age (+/- 5 years), sex, religion and residential area was selected from the visitors to RCC during the same period. Interviews were carried out using a predetermined structured food frequency questionnaire. The information collected also included socio-demographic/economic background, tobacco chewing, tobacco smoking and alcohol habits. Data were analysed using a multiple logistic regression model. Odds ratios for all dietary variables were estimated. Increased risks were observed with higher consumption of rice (OR 3.9; 95% CI 1.6-10.0). Risk was high for those consuming spicy food (OR 2.3; 95% CI 1.1-5.0), high consumption of chilli (OR 7.4; 95% CI 4.0-13.5) and consumption of high-temperature food (OR 7.0; 95% CI 3.7-12.9). On multivariate analysis, high consumption of rice, high consumption of chilli and consumption of high-temperature food were found to be independent risk factors.
10831839	Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) are a group of enzymes catalyzing the conversion of aldehydes to the corresponding acids. In mammals and yeasts, at least two isozymes of ALDH are known to be involved in ethanol metabolism (cytosolic ALDH1 and mitochondrial ALDH2). Although mitochondrial ALDH isozymes have previously been identified in several plants, such as maize and tobacco, it is unclear whether cytosolic ALDH isozymes also exist in plants. In this study, we identified and characterized a cDNA clone encoding aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH1a) from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). The open reading frame of this clone did not contain a typical mitochondrial targeting signal. Analysis of the subcellular localization of ALDH1a using green fluorescent protein (GFP) suggested that ALDH1a is a cytosolic enzyme rather than a mitochondrial enzyme. A genomic Southern hybridization indicated that sequences homologous to the ALDH1a gene are present in at least two regions of the rice genome. Amplification by RT-PCR showed that ALDH1a is expressed strongly in roots, but not in leaves, of rice seedlings, suggesting that ALDH1a functions in roots.
10835258	We prepared a short (29 nucleotides) 5' UTR that enhanced cap-independent translation in a wheat germ translation system by trimming the tobacco etch virus 5' UTR. The trimmed sequence, designated as TE(37-65), was obtained from a conserved region among several potyviruses. The productivities of uncapped reporter mRNAs carrying the TE(37-65) sequence were comparable to those of capped counterparts, in that 5-20 microg of proteins were synthesized per 1 mL of translation reaction mixture. The ribosome that entered onto the TE(37-65) sequence precisely initiated polypeptide synthesis at the defined initiation codon, which ensures rapid and efficient protein truncation analyses. Moreover, the TE(37-65) sequence is short enough to be involved in a PCR primer, which allows a simple method for rapid gene expression, i.e., PCR amplification of a target gene and succeeding in vitro transcription and translation. As a demonstration, the rapid in vitro expression of rice cDNAs using the TE(37-65) sequence was also performed.
10838615	Grasses are the single most important plant family in agriculture. In the past years, comparative genetic mapping has revealed conserved gene order (colinearity) among many grass species. Recently, the first studies at gene level have demonstrated that microcolinearity of genes is less conserved: small scale rearrangements and deletions complicate the microcolinearity between closely related species, such as sorghum and maize, but also between rice and other crop plants. In spite of these problems, rice remains the model plant for grasses as there is limited useful colinearity between Arabidopsis and grasses. However, studies in rice have to be complemented by more intensive genetic work on grass species with large genomes (maize, Triticeae). Gene-rich chromosomal regions in species with large genomes, such as wheat, have a high gene density and are ideal targets for partial genome sequencing.
10838747	The presence of autonomic neuropathy impairs the quality of life (orthostatic hypotension, impotence, gastroparesis) or endangers the life of diabetics (sudden death, unawareness of hypoglycemia). The purpose of the investigation was: 1. To assess the presence of the autonomic neuropathy of the cardiovascular and the gastrointestinal systems and their mutual relationship. 2. To assess the relationship of found autonomic neuropathy and the subjective symptoms which are typical to affected particular systems (cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, sudomotor systems and the syndrome of unawareness of hypoglycemia). The group comprised of 25 type 1 diabetic patients (12 women and 13 men) mean age 40.5 +/- 11.6 (range 21-57 years) with a mean duration of diabetes of 17.8 +/- 7.9 (range 4-35 years), treated with intensified insulin regimens. The cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy was automatically examined by the VariaPulse TF 3 computer system. Scintigraphy was used to investigate the gastric emptying time of 99mTc labelled rice. The information about the subjective symptoms we collected from the questionnaire. For statistic analysis we used Spearmen correlations and ANOVA. 1. A statistically significant correlation was found between the presence of the autonomic neuropathy of cardiovascular and gastrointestinal systems (r = 0.634, p < 0.0007). 2. We didn't find any relation among the cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy and the subjective symptoms of cardiovascular system, respectively the gastrointestinal neuropathy (impair gastric emptying) and the subjective symptoms of gastrointestinal system. We found a significant correlation between cardiovascular and gastrointestinal neuropathy and erectile dysfunction (r = 0.48, p < 0.0078), (r = 0.42, p < 0.0388) and with the syndrome of hypoglycemia unawareness (r = 0.49, p < 0.0057), (r = 0.52, p < 0.0075). The evidence of the cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy is warning signal for the affected autonomic neuropathy in other systems which are more complicated for diagnostic. The subjective symptoms don't correlate with the presence of the visceral neuropathy.
10838923	The objective of this research was, based on biological studies, to determine and adequate diet for rearing Corcyra cephalonica (Stainton, 1865) in the laboratory so as to permit the rearing of this factitious host for Trichogramma mass production. The research was conducted at 25 +/- 1 degrees C, RH 60 +/- 10% and photophase of 14 hours. Six artificial diets were compared: a) whole wheat flour (48.5%), ground rice (48.5%) and sugar (3%); b) ground rice (97%) and sugar (3%); c) whole wheat flour (48.5%), rice flour (48.5%) an sugar (3%); d) whole wheat flour (97%) and yeast (3%); e) wheat germ (97%) and yeast (3%); f) rice bran (94%), sugar (3%) and yeast (3%); f) rice bran (94%), sugar (3%) and yeast (3%). All of the diets studied permitted the development of C. cephalonica although the diets with wheat germ and yeast and that consisting of rice bran, sugar and yeast proved to be the most adequate for rearing the moth. These diets reduced the total (egg-adult) cycle, shortened the egg laying period, and produced heavier adults. Studies on the fertility life tables showed that higher net reproduction rates (Ro) and finite ratio of increase (lambda) were obtained from adults reared on these diets.
10840583	Triplet surveys were conducted in the city of Xi' an and two villages (one in the vicinity and the other at a distance) in Shaanxi Province in China in October-November (when agricultural activities were low), 1997, to elucidate nutrient intakes with a focus on possible urban-rural differences. Total food duplicate samples were collected from non-smoking and non-habitually drinking adult healthy women (about 50 subjects per site and 149 in total). The nutrient intakes were estimated from the weight of food items in reference to national food composition tables. On average, the women took 1873 kcal energy, 54 g protein and 37 g lipid per day, with a lipid energy ratio of 18.4%. Both excess and insufficient energy intake was observed as a result of food intake analysis and body mass index determination. With regard to minor nutrient intakes, insufficiency was serious in the case of calcium, vitamin A and vitamin B2, but not with iron. Whereas dependency on plant foods for sources of energy and protein was common to the three regions, Xi' an people consumed more animal foods than those in the villages. Intake of fish and shellfish was quite low throughout the three regions. Among the four types of cereals, wheat was consumed most substantially in the three regions and in three meals (except for the village where people essentially did not take lunch in reflection of low agricultural activities), whereas rice was consumed more in Xi' an than in the two villages. Maize consumption was higher in the two villages (especially for breakfast) than in the city. In contrast, foxtail millet (although in small amounts) was taken primarily in Xi' an and only at the time of breakfast.
10841713
10842794	In the late 1970s and early '1980s, the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC) with assistance from the government of Germany (KfW through IGIP) drilled 144 wells in the Birim North and South Districts of the Eastern Region of Ghana. This was part of an overall provision of water to rural communities which later came to be known as the 3000 Wells Project. The wells were supply-driven and were centrally-maintained, without community involvement in planning and operation. Earlier in 1970, an agricultural development project was also promoted in the two otherwise deprived districts with the aim of increasing output of produce and thereby improving incomes of rural farmers with emphasis on cocoa, rice and oilpalm. In 1992, under a United Nations' Development Programme Rural Water and Sanitation Project with the GWSC, another 141 wells were drilled and assistance provided to households to build 750 Ventilated Improved Pit (VIP) latrines coupled with hygiene education under a demand-driven community management approach. (About 60% of the budget was allocated to water, another 30% to sanitation while some 10% was meant for hygiene education interventions). All the wells were fitted with modified Indian Mk II pumps. These measures together were meant to improve the health of rural communities and make them contribute more positively to national development. The paper looks at some of the possible factors of the two water projects and the agricultural development project that could impact negatively on the water resources and health of people in these two districts.
10845452	We have studied the effects of neomycin, a potent inhibitor of inositol phospholipid-specific phospholipase C (PLC), on the germination of rice seed and the gibberellin-induced expression of alpha-amylase in the aleurone layer and the scutellar tissues. It was shown that, in the absence of exogenous Ca2+, neomycin markedly reduced the germination speed and seedling growth of rice seeds and inhibited the gibberellin-induced expression of alpha-amylase in both secretory tissues. In addition, neomycin decreased the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) in the gibberellin-treated aleurone layer and the scutellar tissues. However, the inhibitory effects on the germination speed and the expression of alpha-amylase activity were overcome by supplementation of Ca2+. In addition, gibberellin elevated the level of IP3, and ABA prevented the gibberellin-induced formation of IP3, although ABA alone did not alter the IP3 level. The expression of a membrane-bound PLC molecule in rice aleurone layer was shown to be induced by gibberellin, and the gibberellin-induced expression of PLC was markedly delayed by treatment with ABA. These results strongly suggest that the phosphoinositide-Ca2+ signal transduction pathway may play an important role in the gibberellin-induced expression of alpha-amylase molecules closely related to the germination processes of rice seed.
10845454	The members of nonphototropic hypocotyl 1 (NPH1) family of genes in plants are considered to be the blue-light photoreceptors for phototropism. We isolated and characterized two NPH1 homologues from rice named as OsNPH1a and OsNPH1b. The predicted proteins of both OsNPH1 genes include LOV (LOV1 and LOV2) and protein kinase domains which are typically conserved regions in all the members of NPH1 family. Comparison of OsNPH1 apoproteins with those from other plant species revealed a close homology of OsNPHla with Arabidopsis, maize and oat NPH1, while the OsNPH1b appeared to be more closer to the recently found Arabidopsis NPL1. These structural homologies indicate that NPH1 homologues can be grouped into two classes namely "NPH1 type" and "NPL1 type". Northern blot analysis showed that OsNPH1a was strongly expressed in coleoptiles, whereas OsNPH1b was highly expressed in leaves of dark-grown rice seedlings. When the dark-grown seedlings were transferred to the continuous white light, the abundance of the OsNPH1a transcript in coleoptiles rapidly declined to the minimum levels, whereas the OsNPH1b transcript level in leaves gradually increased. These results lead us to conclude that expression of OsNPH1a and OsNPH1b is differently photoregulated in different tissues of rice seedlings.
10849339	In a previous study, we identified the C4-like pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase gene (Pdk) in the C3 plant rice, with a similar structure to the C4-type Pdk in the C4 plant maize. In order to elucidate the differences between C4-type and C4-like Pdk genes in C4 and C3 plants, we have produced chimeric constructs with the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under the control of the Pdk promoters. In transgenic rice, both rice and maize promoters directed GUS expression in photosynthetic organs in a light-dependent manner. However, the maize promoter exhibited a much higher transcriptional activity than the rice promoter did. These results indicate that the rice C4-like Pdk gene resembles the maize C4-type Pdk gene in terms of regulation of expression. We also tested the activity of the rice promoter in transgenic maize. GUS activity was seen in both photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic organs. Thus, the rice promoter does not confer a strict organ-specific gene expression, as the maize promoter does. Moreover, the rice promoter directed GUS expression not only in mesophyll cells but also in bundle sheath cells, whereas the maize promoter directed expression only in mesophyll cells. Taken together, the results obtained from both transgenic maize and rice demonstrate that the rice and maize promoters differ not only quantitatively, but also qualitatively, in terms of their cell- and organ-specificity. Experiments with swapped promoters using the rice and maize promoters further demonstrated that a limited sequence region from -330 to -76 of the maize promoter confers light-regulated, high-level expression to the rice promoter in maize mesophyll protoplasts. We conclude the gain of cis-acting elements conferring high-level expression and mesophyll cell specificity was necessary for establishment of a C4-type Pdk gene during the course of evolution from C3 to C4 plants.
10849355	The photoperiodic sensitivity 5 (se5) mutant of rice, a short-day plant, has a very early flowering phenotype and is completely deficient in photoperiodic response. We have cloned the SE5 gene by candidate cloning and demonstrated that it encodes a putative heme oxygenase. Lack of responses of coleoptile elongation by light pulses and photoreversible phytochromes in crude extracts of se5 indicate that SE5 may function in phytochrome chromophore biosynthesis. Ectopic expression of SE5 cDNA by the CaMV 35S promoter restored the photoperiodic response in the se5 mutant. Our results indicate that phytochromes confer the photoperiodic control of flowering in rice. Comparison of se5 with hy1, a counterpart mutant of Arabidopsis, suggests distinct roles of phytochromes in the photoperiodic control of flowering in these two species.
10849817	Fermentation of glucose-xylose mixtures to ethanol was investigated in batch and continuous experiments using immobilized recombinant Zymomonas mobilis CP4(pZB5). This microorganism was immobilized by entrapment in kappa-carrageenan beads having a diameter of 1.5-2.5 mm. Batch experiments showed that the immobilized cells cofermented glucose and xylose to ethanol and that the presence of glucose improved the xylose utilization rate. Batch fermentation of rice straw hydrolysate containing 76 g/L of glucose and 33.8 g/L of xylose gave an ethanol concentration of 44.3 g/L after 24 h, corresponding to a yield of 0.46 g of ethanol/g of sugars. Comparable results were achieved with a synthetic sugar control. Continuous fermentation experiments were performed in a laboratory-scale fluidized-bed bioreactor (FBR). Glucose-xylose feed mixtures were pumped through the FBR at residence times of 2-4 h. Glucose conversion to ethanol was maintained above 98% in all experiments. Xylose conversion to ethanol was highest at 91.5% for a feed containing 50 g/L of glucose and 13 g/L of xylose at a dilution rate of 0.24/h. The xylose conversion to ethanol decreased with increasing feed xylose concentration, dilution rate, and age of the immobilized cells. Volumetric ethanol productivities in the range of 6.5-15.3 g/L.h were obtained. The improved productivities achieved in the FBR compared to other bioreactor systems can help in reducing the production costs of fuel ethanol from lignocellulosic sugars.
10849849	The production of cyclodextrins (CDs) by cyclodextrin-glycosyl-transferase (CGTase) from Bacillus firmus was studied, with respect to the effect of the source of starch upon CD yield and on the selectivity for producing gamma-CD. Cyclodextrin production tests were run for 24 h at 50 degrees C, pH 8.0, and 1 mg/L of CGTase, and substrates were maltodextrin or the starches of rice, potato, cassava, and corn hydrolyzed up to D.E. 10. Cornstarch was the best substrate for producing gamma-CD. Later, glycyrrhizin (2.5% [w/v]), which forms a stable complex with gamma-CD, was added to the cornstarch reaction medium and increased the yield of gamma-CD to about four times that produced with only maltodextrin, but the total yield of CDs remained practically unchanged. Therefore, the results showed that the studied CGTase is capable of giving relatively high yield of gamma-CD in the presence of glycyrrhizin as complexant and cornstarch as substrate.
10850652	Genome fingerprinting has been a major role in characterization of population structure and analysis of the variability in phytopathogenic fungi. In order to characterize Korean rice blast fungal isolates, the genomic DNAs were digested with AluI endonuclease and subsequent PCR amplifications using random decamer primers with combinations of microsatellite primers had been carried out. This Alu-Inter SSR technique revealed high polymorphism among the Korean blast fungal isolates. Then, fragments from the Alu-Inter SSR analysis were isolated to be used as probes in Southern hybridization, which also revealed high polymorphism between isolates to distinguish individuals. The sequences of the isolated fragments contained TC/AG tandem repeats interspersed with a 30 bp direct repeat. In gel blot analysis, the isolated TC/AG repeat microsatellite sequences were proved to be useful for characterizing the isolates in blast fungi in addition to the conventional MGR (Magnaporthe grisea repeat) probes. One interesting point was that the rice blast fungus derived TC/AG repeat microsatellite sequences were abundant in non-rice blast fungi and plant species, but not in other fungi and yeasts. A discussion on the possible horizontal gene transfer between phytopathogenic fungi and host plants is presented.
10851548	When Balb/C mice that were fed with red glutinous rice, white ordinary rice, or commercially available standard food were inoculated with syngeneic Meth/A lymphoma cells i.p., the group fed the red rice survived longer than the other two groups. In order to determine if the anthocyanins contained in red-coloured seeds and fruit rinds were responsible for the tumor suppressive effect, we added anthocyanins extracted from grape rinds and glutinous red rice to petri dishes that had been seeded with HCT-15 cells. After 4 days of culture, cell counts were made. These anthocyanins were not effective in suppressing the tumor growth. However, anthocyanidins, which were generated by keeping anthocyanins in 5 to 6% HC1 methanol for 5 to 6 hours, were effective in the suppression of tumor growth. Flowcytometric histograms were made after 2 days of culture with these bioflavonoids. The histogram of cells treated with crude anthocyanin was similar to that of the control. Hydrolyzed anthocyanidins gave the elevation of S phase, suggesting a block in the step from S-phase to G2-phase. It seemed that the anthocyanidins contained in the grape rinds and red rice were effective on the suppression of cell growth as observed previously for anthocyanins extracted from the petals of higher plants.
10852479	rDNA (18S-5.8S-25S rDNA) and 5S rDNA loci were visualized on the chromosomes of six species of the genus Oryza by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and the labeled rice chromosomes were identified based on their condensation patterns. As a result, the chromosomes harboring rDNA and/or 5S rDNA loci were determined in the complement for all the known rice genomes. Variation in the location of the rDNA loci indicated the transpositional nature of the rDNAs in the genus Oryza, as also suggested in Triticeae and Allium. Comparative analysis of the locations of rDNA loci among rice, maize and wheat revealed that variability in the physical location of the rDNA loci was characteristic of the genus Oryza and also of the genera of Gramineae. This variability in the location of the rDNA loci between evolutionarily related species is in sharp contrast to the conservation of the general order of genes in their genomes.
10852491	Resistance to submergence stress is an important breeding objective in areas where rice cultivars are subjected to complete inundation for a week or more. The present study was conducted to develop a high-resolution map of the region surrounding the submergence tolerance gene Sub1 in rice, which derives from the Indian cultivar FR13A. Submergence screening of 8-day-old plants of F3 families kept for 14 days submerged in 60 cm of water allowed an accurate classification of Sub1 phenotypes. Bulked segregant analysis was used to identify AFLP markers linked to Sub1. A population of 2950 F2 plants segregating for Sub1 was screened with two RFLP markers flanking the Sub1 locus, 2.4 and 4.9 cM away. Submergence tolerance was measured in the recombinant plants, and AFLP markers closely linked to Sub1 were mapped. Two AFLP markers cosegregated with Sub1 in this large population, and other markers were localized within 0.2 cM of Sub1. The high-resolution map should serve as the basis for map-based cloning of this important locus, as it will permit the identification of BAC clones spanning the region.
10852496	Mitochondrial ribosomal protein S10 (rps10) is encoded by the mitochondrial genome in potato and pea. Here we show that the rps10 gene is absent from the mitochondrial genome of rice and has been transferred to the nucleus. Cloning and transcriptional analysis show that there are two rps10 genes in the rice nuclear genome and that their transcripts differ in abundance. Western analysis detected the RPS10 protein in the soluble fraction of rice mitochondria, although neither RPS10 has any obvious N-terminal presequence for targeting to mitochondria. This result suggests that targeting information is present in the internal region of rice RPS10. Genomic sequence analysis indicated that each rps10 gene has an intron in the 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) and that these intron sequences are homologous to each other. This result strongly suggests that a duplication event occurred after transfer of the rps10 gene to the nucleus. The duplicated rps10 genes have since been translocated to different chromosomes, because the two rps10 genes were mapped on chromosomes 6 and 12 by RFLP analysis. Interestingly, the 5' UTR and the intron of the rice rps10 genes are homologous to sequences found in several rice genes with various functions, such as osk4, EF-1beta2 and RAG1, suggesting a common origin and a functional role for the 5' UTR. Acquisition of the 5' flanking region might have accelerated the activation of the mitochondrial rps10 gene which was transferred to the nuclear genome.
10852934	Rice contains several MADS box genes. It has been demonstrated previously that one of these genes, OsMADS1 (for Oryza sativa MADS box gene1), is expressed preferentially in flowers and causes early flowering when ectopically expressed in tobacco plants. In this study, we demonstrated that ectopic expression of OsMADS1 in rice also results in early flowering. To further investigate the role of OsMADS1 during rice flower development, we generated transgenic rice plants expressing altered OsMADS1 genes that contain missense mutations in the MADS domain. There was no visible alteration in the transgenic plants during the vegetative stage. However, transgenic panicles typically exhibited phenotypic alterations, including spikelets consisting of elongated leafy paleae and lemmas that exhibit a feature of open hull, two pairs of leafy palea-like and lemma-like lodicules, a decrease in stamen number, and an increase in the number of carpels. In addition, some spikelets generated an additional floret from the same rachilla. These characteristics are very similar to those of leafy hull sterile1 (lhs1). The map position of OsMADS1 is closely linked to that of lhs1 on chromosome 3. Examination of lhs1 revealed that it contains two missense mutations in the OsMADS1 MADS domain. A genetic complementation experiment showed that the 11.9-kb genomic DNA fragment containing the wild-type OsMADS1 gene rescued the mutant phenotypes. In addition, ectopic expression of the OsMADS1 gene isolated from the lhs1 line resulted in lhs1-conferred phenotypes. These lines of evidence demonstrate that OsMADS1 is the lhs1 gene.
10853265	Whole plasmids are used in both Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and direct DNA transfer, generally leading to the integration of vector backbone sequences into the host genome along with the transgene(s). This is undesirable, as vector backbone sequences often have negative effects on transgene or endogenous gene expression, and can promote transgene rearrangements. We, therefore, bombarded rice tissue with two constructs: a plasmid containing the bar gene, and a linear DNA fragment isolated from the same plasmid, corresponding to the minimal bar gene expression cassette (promoter, open reading frame and terminator). We recovered phosphinothricin-resistant plants from both experiments, showing that the selectable marker was efficiently expressed. Transformation with such constructs resulted in predominantly 'simple' integration events (one or two bands on Southern blots), producing low-copy-number transgenic plants with a low frequency of transgene rearrangements. Conversely, transformation with supercoiled or linearized whole plasmids generated plants with 'complex' integration patterns, that is, higher copy numbers and frequent transgene rearrangements. We monitored transgenic lines through to the R4 generation and observed no silencing in plants carrying minimal constructs. We also carried out experiments in which rice tissue was simultaneously bombarded with minimal linear hpt and gusA cassettes. We observed robust GUS activity in hygromycin-resistant plants, confirming co-expression of the selectable and nonselectable markers. Furthermore, the efficiency of cotransformation using minimal constructs was the same as that using supercoiled plasmid cointegrate vectors.
10853266	Barley zygote protoplasts were mechanically isolated, embedded in agarose droplets, and microinjected with a rice actin promoter Act1-gusA-nos gene construct. On average 62% of the cells survived the injection and of these 55% continued development into embryo-like structures and eventually to plants. PCR screening for the presence of a 307-bp fragment in the middle of the gusA gene showed that on average 21% of the derived structures contained this fragment. However, among the hundreds of injected zygotes, derived structures and regenerants we only found significant GUS expression in two cases (embryo-like structures nine days after injection). Two lines of green plants, derived from zygotes microinjected with linearized plasmid (line A147-1) or an isolated Act1-gusA-nos gene cassette (line A166-h) proved to be transgenic. Line A147-1 appeared to contain a single and intact copy of the expression cassette but a PCR based progeny analysis indicated the presence of additional shorter fragments of the cassette. Line A166-h appeared to contain a single fragment of the gusA gene that was transferred to the progeny as a single Mendelian trait. One additional fragment of the gusA gene was identified in this line. The present data show that transformation of barley by microinjection of DNA into isolated zygotes is feasible but also that gene expression rarely is achieved, possibly due to degradation of the introduced DNA.
10853267	We analyzed molecularly and biochemically a series of transgenic rice lines expressing the oat adc (arginine decarboxylase) cDNA under the control of the constitutive maize ubiquitin 1 promoter. We established baseline biochemical parameters to elucidate the role of polyamines (PAs) during morphogenesis. We measured mRNA levels, ADC enzyme activity and cellular PAs in dedifferentiated callus. Polyamine levels were also quantified in two subsequent developmental stages--regenerating tissue and differentiated shoots. We observed significant (P < 0.05) differences in the levels of individual PAs at the three developmental stages. The amounts of putrescine (Put) and spermidine (Spd) in dedifferentiated transgenic callus were lower than those in the wild type or in hpt (hygromycin resistant)-controls, whereas the amount of spermine (Spm) was increased up to two-fold. In regenerating tissue, this trend was reversed, with significantly higher levels of Put and Spd (P < 0.05), and lower levels of Spm (P < 0.05) compared to non-transformed or hpt-control tissues at the same developmental stage. In differentiated shoots, there was a general increase in PA levels, with significant increases in Put, Spd, and Spm (P < 0.05); on occasion reaching six times the level observed in wild type and hpt-control tissues. These results contrast those we reported previously using the weaker CaMV 35S promoter driving adc expression. mRNA measurements and ADC enzyme activity were consistently higher (P < 0.01) in all tissues expressing pUbiadcs compared to equivalent tissues engineered with 35Sadc. Our findings are consistent with a threshold model which postulates that high adc expression leading to production of Put above a basal level is necessary to generate a big enough metabolic pool to trigger PA flux through the pathway leading to an increase in the concentration of Spd and Spm. This can be best accomplished by a strong constitutive promoter driving adc. We discuss our results in the context of flux through the PA pathway and its impact on morphogenesis.
10854779	The 20S proteasome is the proteolytic complex that is involved in removing abnormal proteins, and it also has other diverse biological functions. Its structure comprises 28 subunits arranged in four rings of seven subunits, and exists as a hollow cylinder. The two outer rings and two inner rings form an alpha7beta7beta7alpha7 structure, and each subunit, alpha and beta, exists as seven different types, thus giving 14 kinds of subunits. In this study, we report the primary structures of the 14 proteasomal subunit subfamilies in rice (Oryza sativa), representing the first set for all of the subunits from monocots. Amino acid sequence homology within the rice family (alpha-type: 28.9-42.1%; beta-type: 17.2-31. 9%) were lower than those between rice subunits and corresponding orthologs from Arabidopsis and yeast (alpha-type: 49.2-94.5%; beta-type: 34.8-87.7%). Structural features observed in eukaryotic proteasome subunits, i.e., alpha- or beta-type signature at the N-termini, Thr active sites in beta1, beta2 and beta5 subunits, and nuclear localization signal-like sequences in some alpha-type subunits, were shown to be conserved in rice.
10855713	Cultivation of Monascus purpureus (CCRC 31615) for the production of natural pigments was investigated. Traditionally, Monascus species were grown on rice by solid-state culture. For large-scale cultivation, solid-state cultures were associated with some problems such as contamination and scale-up. By using submerged cultures with rice particles, a stirred-tank fermentor was not suitable for submerged cultures as the impeller tended to break the particles into small pieces. A conventional bubble column was also unsuitable as its mixing capability was poor. In the present study, a modified bubble column with wire-mesh draft tubes was employed for the cultivation of M. purpureus. The proposed column had a shorter mixing time and a higher oxygen transfer rate relative to the conventional bubble column. The production of pigments using the proposed column was up to 80% higher than that achieved using the conventional bubble column.
10857196	The application of modern methods of genetic mapping using RFLP and PCR technologies allowed to advance essentially in construction of rye genome genetic maps and mapping of some morphological and breeding-valuable genes. Genetic mapping of cereal genomes, such as rye, wheat, maize and rice using common set of DNA-probes permitted to reveal considerable evolutionary conservation in gene organization and localization. This allows to use more effectively method of comparative mapping for fast localization and tagging of genes in genomes of less investigated species.
10857547	Tetragenococcus strains isolated from the manufacturing process of Japanese puffer fish ovaries fermented with rice-bran were characterized and differentiated phenotypically and genotypically. A total of 413 Tetragenococcus isolates were evaluated. On the basis of five representative substrates, the isolates were grouped into seven groups. An RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphisms) analysis of the 16S rRNA gene of representative strains of major groups revealed that they could be grouped into two groups: one was identified as the most prominent halophilic lactic acid coccus, Tetragenococcus halophilus, and the other as T. muriaticus, which has recently been added to the genus Tetragenococcus as a new species. Physiologically, the major differences between the two groups were found in the ability to grow in medium not supplemented with NaCl and the fermentation of L-arabinose, sucrose and D-mannitol, and several other carbohydrates.
10858585	In anoxically incubated slurries of Italian rice field soil, CH(4) production is initiated after a lag phase during which ferric iron and sulfate are reduced. The production of CH(4) was affected by the size of soil aggregates used for the preparation of the soil slurry. Rates of CH(4) production were lowest with small aggregates (<50 and 50-100 m), were highest with aggregates of 200-2000 m size and were intermediate with aggregates of 2000-15000 m size. The different amounts of CH(4) accumulated were positively correlated to the concentrations of acetate, propionate and caproate that transiently accumulated in the slurries prepared from different aggregate sizes and also to the organic carbon content. The addition of organic debris that was collected from large-size aggregates to the aggregate size fractions <200 and <50 m resulted in an increase of CH(4) production to amounts that were comparable to those measured in unamended aggregates of 200-2000 m size, indicating that CH(4) production in the different aggregate size fractions was limited by substrate. The distribution of archaeal small-subunit rRNA genes in the different soil aggregate fractions was analyzed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism which allowed seven different archaeal ribotypes to be distinguished. Ribotype-182 (consisting of members of the Methanosarcinaceae and rice cluster VI), ribotype-389 (rice cluster I and II) and ribotype-820 (undigested DNA, rice cluster IV and members of the Methanosarcinaceae) accounted for >20, >30 and >10% of the total, respectively. The other ribotypes accounted for <10% of the total. The relative quantity of the individual ribotypes changed only slightly with incubation time and was almost the same among the different soil aggregate fractions. Ribotype-389, for example, slightly decreased with time, whereas ribotype-182 slightly increased. At the end of incubation, the relative quantity of ribotype-182 seemed to be slightly higher in soil fractions with larger than with smaller aggregates, whereas it was the opposite with ribotype-80 (Methanomicrobiaceae) and ribotype-88 (Methanobacteriaceae). Ribotype-280 (Methanosaetaceae and rice cluster V), ribotype-375 (rice cluster III), ribotype-389 and ribotype-820, on the other hand, were not much different among the different soil aggregate size fractions. However, the differences were not significant relative to the errors encountered during the extraction of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplifiable DNA from soil. In conclusion, soil aggregate size and incubation time showed a strong effect on the function but only a small effect on the structure of the methanogenic microbial community.
10861243	Oxalate oxidases (OXOs) have been found to be concentrated in the surface tissues of wheat embryos and grains: germin is concentrated in root and leaf sheaths that surround germinated embryos; pseudogermin (OXO-psi) is concentrated in the epidermis and bracts that 'encircle' mature grains. Most strikingly, the epidermal accumulation of OXO-psi was found to presage the transition of a delicate 'skin', similar to the fragile epidermis of human skin, into the tough shell (the miller's 'beeswing') that is typical of mature wheat grains. A narrow range of oxalate concentration (1--2 mM) in the hydrated tissues of major crop cereals (barley, maize, oat, rice, rye and wheat) contrasted with wide variations in their OXO expression, e.g. cold-tolerant and cold-sensitive varieties of maize have similar oxalate contents but the former was found to contain approx. 20-fold more germin than did the latter. Well-known OXOs in sorghum, a minor cereal, and beet, a dicotyledon, were found to have little antigenic relatedness to the germins, but the beet enzyme did share some of the unique stability properties that are peculiar to the germin-like OXOs that are found only in the major crop cereals. Their concentration in surface structures of domesticated wheat suggests a biochemical role for germin-like OXOs: programmed cell death in surface tissues might be a constitutive as well as an adaptive form of differentiation that helps to produce refractory barriers against tissue invasion by predators. Incidental to the principal investigation, and using an OXO assay (oxalate-dependent release of CO(2)) that did not rely on detecting H(2)O(2), which is often fully degraded in cell extracts, it was found that OXO activity in soluble extracts of wheat was manifested only in standard solution assays if the extract was pretreated in a variety of ways, which included preincubation with pepsin or highly substituted glucuronogalactoarabinoxylans (cell-wall polysaccharides).
10861489	To better understand the nutritional etiology of squamous cell esophageal cancer, we conducted a case-control study in 3 areas of northern Italy. A total of 304 incident, histologically confirmed cases of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus (275 men, 29 women) and 743 hospital controls (593 men, 150 women) with acute, non-neoplastic conditions, not related to smoking, alcohol consumption or long-term diet modification, were interviewed during 1992 to 1997. The validated food-frequency questionnaire included 78 questions on food items or recipes, which were then categorized into 19 main food groups, and 10 questions on fat intake pattern. After allowance for age, sex, education, area of residence, tobacco smoking, alcohol drinking and non-alcohol energy, a significant increased risk emerged for high consumption of soups (OR=2.1 for the highest vs. lowest quintile), whereas inverse associations with esophageal cancer risk were observed for pasta and rice (OR=0.7), poultry (OR=0.4), raw vegetables (OR=0.3), citrus fruit (OR=0.4) and other fruit (OR=0.5). The associations with dietary habits were consistent in different strata of tobacco smoking and alcohol drinking. Among added lipids, olive oil intake showed a significant reduction of esophageal cancer risk, even after allowance for total vegetable consumption (OR=0.4), while butter consumption was directly associated with this risk (OR=2.2). Our results thus provide further support to the evidence that raw vegetables and citrus fruit are inversely related to the risk of squamous cell esophageal cancer and suggest that olive oil may also reduce this risk.
10863569	To describe the food intake and food sources of macronutrients in diets of older Hispanic adults in the Northeastern United States and to explore relationships between acculturation, years in the United States, and macronutrient intake. Cross-sectional study using a representative sample of older Hispanic adults and a comparison group of non-Hispanic whites. Hispanic (n = 711) and non-Hispanic white (n = 226) persons, aged 60 years and older, residing in Massachusetts. Macronutrient intakes, collected by 24-hour dietary recall, were compared across ethnic groups by means of the general linear models procedure (with Bonferroni adjustments). Associations between macronutrient intake and predictor variables were tested with Pearson correlations and linear regression. The contribution of foods to total intake of macronutrients was determined by use of a rank procedure. Hispanic elderly subjects consumed significantly less saturated fat and simple sugars and more complex carbohydrates than did non-Hispanic whites. Hispanics residing in the United States for a longer time tended to have macronutrient profiles more similar to those of the non-Hispanic whites. Rice for Hispanic and bread for non-Hispanics were the major contributors of energy. More acculturated Hispanic elders consumed fewer ethnic foods and more foods related to the non-Hispanic-white eating patterns than those less acculturated. Efforts to promote better diets among Hispanic elders need to emphasize maintenance or adoption of healthful dietary patterns based on ethnic and modern foods that will satisfy their biological, emotional, and social needs. Dietitians and other dietetics practitioners can use the information presented here in studying nutrition-related chronic diseases, in public health planning, and in nutrition education and promotion efforts directed to ethnic-specific, elderly Hispanic groups.
10863621	The effects of impregnated bednets treated with deltamethrin at a dosage of 25 mg a.i./m2 were evaluated at two testing stations in Cte d'Ivoire. The first one was located in Yaokoffikro, where Anopheles gambiae s.s. are resistant to pyrethroids (including deltamethrin), and the second in M'be, close to a large rice-growing area where An. gambiae s.s. are susceptible pyrethroids. In both situations, treating bednets with deltamethrin was very effective in limiting contact between man and vector. 72% fewer female An. gambiae entered the huts in the susceptible area, whereas a decrease of 43% was recorded in the resistant area, indicating that deltamethrin still has a certain repellent effect on resistant populations of An. gambiae s.s. Overall mortality induced by bednets treated with insecticide was significantly higher in the resistant area (56.4% as versus 44.3%). An explanation for this apparent paradox is that the mosquitoes being less repelled by the insecticide remain on the treated material for longer periods of time and most of them eventually die. The results of this study indicate that bednets treated with deltamethrin are an effective prophylactic measure even in areas where An. gambiae s.s. are resistant to pyrethroids and should still be considered as a practical means of personal protection against malaria even in pyrethroid resistance areas with high frequency of kdr resistance genes.
10867050	Young male pigs were fed a diet formulated from human foods including either boiled white rice plus rice bran or heat-stabilized brown rice at equivalent levels of fiber for 3 wk. Stool and starch excretion were low in pigs fed white rice during the first 2 wk of the experiment. In pigs fed brown rice, their excretion was high during wk 1 but declined in wk 2 while short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) excretion was higher at both times. Large bowel digesta mass, measured during wk 3, was higher in pigs fed brown rice but only in the proximal colon. Large bowel and fecal starch concentrations were higher in pigs fed brown rice but the difference was insufficient to explain the increase in large bowel digesta mass. In pigs with a cecal cannula, digesta starch concentrations were equally higher when white or brown rice was fed compared with the corresponding rice which had been finely milled, indicating that particle size was a determinant of ileal digestibility. Concentrations and pools of total and individual SCFA were higher in all regions of the colon but not the cecum of pigs fed brown rice. Large bowel Ca(2+) concentrations were lower in pigs fed brown rice, suggesting greater absorption. The data confirm earlier findings that brown rice raises large bowel digesta mass and SCFA through greater fermentation of starch but show that starch itself makes a relatively small contribution to digesta and stool mass. Apparently, the rate of passage of digesta is a determinant of the concentrations and pools of SCFA in the distal colon and in feces.
10868338	Corn samples suspected of causing refusal-to-eat syndrome in dairy cattle were examined mycologically. Fusarium moniliforme (14 isolates) and F. proliferatum (12 isolates) were the predominant fungi present. These isolates were tested for mycotoxin production on rice at 25 degrees C. Each strain of F. moniliforme produced fumonisin B1 (FB1: 378-15,600 ppm) and fumonisin B2 (FB2: 2-1050 ppm). Each strain of F. proliferatum produced moniliformin (45-16,000 ppm), FB1 (27-6140 ppm), and FB2 (5-1550 ppm). In addition, a new Fusarium metabolite of molecular composition C21H38N2O6 was produced by 10 of the F. moniliforme isolates and 7 of the F. proliferatum isolates. The metabolite's 1H- and 13C-NMR, HRFAB/MS and IR spectra indicate an alpha amino acid. It is toxic to Lemna minor L. duckweed (LD50 100 micrograms/mL).
10868583	Fumonisins B1 and B2 were extracted from naturally contaminated corn products by using different extraction solvent compositions (methanol-water, acetonitrile-methanol-water, ethanol-water, and 100% water) and a range of temperatures from ambient to 150 degrees C. Ground samples of several corn products and 1 rice sample were mixed with an adsorbent material (Hydromatrix), and the fumonisins were extracted in 2 sequential 5 min static extractions at various temperatures. The combined extracts were cleaned up and analyzed by reversed-phase liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection after o-phthaldialdehyde-mercaptoethanol derivatization. The results showed a clear influence of temperature and solvent composition on recovery of fumonisins from some matrixes. With acetonitrile-methanol-water (1 + 1 + 2) the quantity of fumonisins extracted from naturally contaminated taco shells almost tripled in going from 23 degrees to 80 degrees C, and increased by another 30% when ethanol-water (3 + 7) was used as extraction solvent at 80 degrees C. Similar results were obtained with nacho chips. These effects were less pronounced with cornmeal, and small differences due to temperature and solvent composition were observed for corn flakes and rice. The ethanol-water extraction solvent combinations were specifically evaluated in an effort to use the cheapest, least toxic, and most environmentally friendly solvents for organic residue analysis. At 80 degrees C, ethanol-water combinations performed equally or better than methanol-water (8 + 2) or acetonitrile-methanol-water (1 + 1 + 2), combinations which are commonly used for fumonisin extractions. Even 100% water was successful for extracting fumonisins from the products, except for rice. However, increased amounts of water created technical problems and required an increased amount of Hydromatrix in the samples prior to extraction.
10870556	Wild mosquitoes were allowed to feed, during two nights, on a heartworm-infected dog with a very high microfilaraemia (72,000 and 78,000 microfilariae/ml just prior to be allocated in the live trap). A heartworm-free dog was used as control bait in the second night. Engorged mosquitoes (Aedes caspius, Anopheles maculipennis s.l., Culex modestus, and Cx pipiens) were kept under laboratory conditions, artificially fed until day 10 post-infection (PI) and then dissected for the presence of Dirofilaria immitis larvae. Mortality of Ae. caspius and Cx modestus was significantly higher than controls on day 3 PI (89.4 and 80.3%, respectively), but survival rates were similar in the following period. Third-stage larvae were observed from day 12 to 17 PI in the four mosquito species studied. However, vector efficiency was significantly higher in Ae. caspius which produced 102 (73.9%) of the 138 infective larvae found. Although less efficient vectors, the other 3 species may contribute to D. immitis transmission in the study area due to their abundance (Cx modestus) or higher resistance to the negative effects of infection (An. maculipennis s.l., Cx pipiens). As far as Cx pipiens is concerned, this mosquito, which luckily fed the least frequently on the dog, confirmed to act as powerful vector in iperendemic areas. The risks for veterinary and medical health, related to the zoo-antropophylic host-feeding pattern of the studied species, are discussed.
10870691	A simultaneous method for the trace determination of acidic, neutral herbicides and their transformation products in estuarine waters has been developed through an on-line solid-phase extraction method followed by liquid chromatography with diode array and mass spectrometric detection. An atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) interface was used in the negative ionization mode after optimization of the main APCI parameters. Limits of detection ranged from 0.1 to 0.02 ng/ml for 50 ml of acidified estuarine waters preconcentrated into polymeric precolumns and using time-scheduled selected ion monitoring mode. Two degradation products of the acidic herbicides (4-chloro-2-methylphenol and 2,4-dichlorophenol) did not show good signal response using APCI-MS at the concentration studied due to the higher fragmentor voltage needed for their determination. For molinate and the major degradation product of propanil, 3,4-dichloroaniline, positive ion mode was needed for APCI-MS detection. The proposed method was applied to the determination of herbicides in drainage waters from rice fields of the Delta del Ebro (Spain). During the 3-month monitoring of the herbicides, 8-hydroxybentazone and 4-chloro-2-methylphenoxyacetic acid were successively found in those samples.
10872516	A total of 237 commercially available samples of cereal-based foods including bread and related products, noodles, breakfast cereals, baby and infant foods, rice and other foods were randomly collected in southwest Germany during the first six months of 1998. The trichothecenes deoxynivalenol (DON), 3- and 15-acetyl-deoxynivalenol (3-,15-ADON), nivalenol (NIV), fusarenon-X (FUS-X), T-2 toxin (T-2) and HT-2 toxin (HT-2) were determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry following clean-up by a two stage solid-phase extraction. Detection limits ranged between 2 and 12 micrograms/kg. Based on all samples, the incidence of DON, HT-2, T-2, 3-ADON, 15-ADON, and NIV was at 71, 18, 4, 4, 4 and 2%, respectively; the average contents in positive samples were at 103, 16, 14, 17, 24 and 109 micrograms/kg, respectively. Fus-X was not detected in any sample. A lower (P < 0.05) DON content was found in baby and infant foods as well as in cookies and cakes compared to bread. Overall, based on the incidence and level of all six toxins, the degree of contamination was lowest in baby and infant foods. Foods produced from either white or whole grain flour did not differ (P > 0.05) with regard to the incidence and level of DON. In foods produced from cereals of organic production both the incidence and median content of DON was lower compared to conventional production. Zearalenone, alpha- and beta-zearalenol were determined by high performance liquid chromatography in 20 selected samples, mostly baby and infant foods. These toxins were not present in excess of the detection limit in any sample.
10872763	This study evaluated postoperative enteroparesis influenced by patient-controlled analgesia combined with continuous epidural block in patients who underwent posterior lumbar surgery. One hundred nine patients were divided into three groups at random (group 1, controls (18 patients); group 2, postoperative patient-controlled analgesia and continuous epidural block (45 patients); group 3, one-shot epidural analgesia, postoperative patient-controlled analgesia, and continuous epidural block (46 patients). The patients in groups 2 and 3 had more satisfactory pain relief and needed analgesics less frequently. However, their clinical abdominal findings the morning after surgery were worse than those in control patients. The times when patients could take any nourishment and eat solid food (rice) were delayed by patient-controlled analgesia with continuous epidural block.
10873526	Three insertion sequences, IS1417, IS1418, and IS1419, were isolated from Burkholderia glumae (formerly Pseudomonas glumae), a gram-negative rice pathogenic bacterium, on the basis of their abilities to activate the expression of the neo gene of the entrap vector pSHI1063. The 1335-bp IS1417 element with 17-bp imperfect terminal inverted repeats was found to be flanked by 5-bp direct repeats of the vector sequence. IS1418 is 865 bp in length and carries 15-bp inverted repeats with a target duplication of 3 bp. The 1215-bp IS1419 sequence is bounded by the 36-bp terminal inverted repeats of the element and 7-bp direct repeats of the vector sequence. IS1417 and IS1418 belong to the IS2 subgroup of the IS3 family and the IS427 subgroup of the IS5 family, respectively, whereas IS1419 does not appear to be a member of any known IS family. Southern blot analysis of DNAs from B. glumae field isolates indicated that those IS elements are widely distributed, but the host range of the three IS elements appears to be limited to B. glumae and some other related species such as B. plantarii. The polymorphisms exhibited in B. glumae isolates suggest that those elements are useful for molecular epidemiological studies of B. glumae infections.
10873582	Membrane traffic in eukaryotic cells is mediated by COP (coat protein)-coated vesicles. Their existence in plant cells has not yet been unequivocally demonstrated, although coated vesicles (probably with a COP coat) can be seen by electron microscopy. At the gene level, plant cells seem to contain all the components necessary to form COP-coated vesicles. In this paper, we have used antibodies raised against mammalian COPI coat proteins to detect putative homologues in rice (Oryza sativa) cells. Using these antibodies, we have found that rice cells contain alpha-, beta-, beta'-, and gamma-COP, as well as ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) 1 protein. In addition, we show that antibodies against mammalian beta'-COP can immunoprecipitate not only beta'-COP but also alpha-, beta-, and gamma-COP, suggesting that COPI components in rice cells exist as a complex (or coatomer) in the cytosol, as in mammalian cells. Finally, we show that COP binding to membranes is GTP-dependent, and that ARF1 also binds to membranes in a GTP-dependent manner.
10875606	The objective of this study was to provide national estimates of whole-grain intake in the United States, identify major dietary sources of whole grains and compare food and nutrient intakes of whole-grain consumers and nonconsumers. Data were collected from 9,323 individuals age 20 years and older in USDA's 1994-96 Continuing Survey of Food Intakes by Individuals through in-person interviews on two non-consecutive days using a multiple-pass 24-hour recall method. Foods reported by respondents were quantified in servings as defined by the Food Guide Pyramid using a new database developed by the USDA. Whole-grain and nonwhole-grain servings were determined based on the proportion, by weight, of the grain ingredients in each food that were whole grain and nonwhole grain. Sampling weights were applied to provide national probability estimates adjusted for differential rates of selection and nonresponse. Then, t tests were used to assess statistically significant differences in intakes of nutrients and food groups by whole-grain consumers and nonconsumers. According to the 1994-96 survey, U.S. adults consumed an average of 6.7 servings of grain products per day; 1.0 serving was whole grain. Thirty-six percent averaged less than one whole-grain serving per day based on two days of intake data, and only eight percent met the recommendation to eat at least three servings per day. Yeast breads and breakfast cereals each provided almost one-third of the whole-grain servings, grain-based snacks provided about one-fifth, and less than one-tenth came from quick breads, pasta, rice, cakes, cookies, pies, pastries and miscellaneous grains. Whole-grain consumers had significantly better nutrient profiles than nonconsumers, including higher intakes of vitamins and minerals as percentages of 1989 Recommended Dietary Allowances and as nutrients per 1,000 kilocalories, and lower intakes of total fat, saturated fat and added sugars as percentages of food energy. Consumers were significantly more likely than nonconsumers to meet Pyramid recommendations for the grain, fruit and dairy food groups. Consumption of whole-grain foods by U.S. adults falls well below the recommended level. A large proportion of the population could benefit from eating more whole grain, and efforts are needed to encourage consumption.
10876090	We isolated and characterized a gene from Dictyostelium discoideum, which encodes a protein of 279 amino acids (30.6kDa) containing six transmembrane domains with two highly conserved motifs of asparagine-proline-alanine (NPA) found in the aquaporin family of water-channel proteins, although the second motif of the protein has been modified into NPV (asparagine-proline-valine). The deduced amino acid sequence of the gene, which we have named aqpA, is 39% identical to D. discoideum WacA, 26% identical to human Aqp5, 26% identical to Oryza sativa PIP2a, 25% identical to yeast Aqy1 and 24% identical to E.coli AqpZ. Southern analyses indicated that aqpA is present as a single copy in the genome. Northern blot analysis showed that the developmentally regulated 1kb mRNA transcript first appears at the tight mound stage (12h), and is abundant in fingers (16h) and late culminants (20h). In-situ hybridization of slugs revealed that aqpA mRNA accumulated in cells of the prespore region but not in those of the prestalk region. Disruption of aqpA by homologous recombination did not significantly affect growth or developmental morphogenesis. Although mutant spores were viable, when assayed soon after encapsulation, they became permeable to propidium iodide and lost viability after a week on the top of a fruiting body. Thus, AqpA is essential to maintain spore dormancy perhaps through the regulation of water flow.
10877065	A novel type of degradation of photosystem I peripheral antenna complexes has been observed in rice leaves under darkness in the present study. Photosynthesis, chlorophyll content, the chlorophyll a/b ratio, and relative amounts of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase decrease during dark treatment. The levels of photosystem II reaction-center complex and cytochrome f on the basis of units of chlorophyll also decline rapidly under darkness. In contrast, the levels of photosystem I reaction-center complex remain stable under darkness for six days. Low-temperature fluorescence emission spectra ascribed to photosystem I antennae clearly show a blue shift. A similar shift is also observed in the photosystem I complexes resolved with dodecyl maltoside-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Moreover, polypeptide analysis of the thylakoids and photosystem I complexes isolated from the green gels shows that some polypeptides originating from photosystem I peripheral antenna complexes disappear during the dark treatment. A curve-fitting method also displays remarkable changes in the chlorophyll components between the light and dark treatments. It is likely that these results indicate the disconnection/disassembly of the photosystem I antenna as well as the photosystem II complexes induced by dark treatment. Moreover, these findings also imply the existence of different degradation mechanisms for the photosystem I and II complexes.
10877762	The population dynamics of Archaea after flooding of an Italian rice field soil were studied over 17 days. Anoxically incubated rice field soil slurries exhibited a typical sequence of reduction processes characterized by reduction of nitrate, Fe(3+), and sulfate prior to the initiation of methane production. Archaeal population dynamics were followed using a dual approach involving molecular sequence retrieval and fingerprinting of small-subunit (SSU) rRNA genes. We retrieved archaeal sequences from four clone libraries (30 each) constructed for different time points (days 0, 1, 8, and 17) after flooding of the soil. The clones could be assigned to known methanogens (i.e., Methanosarcinaceae, Methanosaetaceae, Methanomicrobiaceae, and Methanobacteriaceae) and to novel euryarchaeotal (rice clusters I, II, and III) and crenarchaeotal (rice clusters IV and VI) lineages previously detected in anoxic rice field soil and on rice roots (R. Grosskopf, S. Stubner, and W. Liesack, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64:4983-4989, 1998). During the initiation of methanogenesis (days 0 to 17), we detected significant changes in the frequency of individual clones, especially of those affiliated with the Methanosaetaceae and Methanobacteriaceae. However, these findings could not be confirmed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of SSU rDNA amplicons. Most likely, the fluctuations in sequence composition of clone libraries resulted from cloning bias. Clonal SSU rRNA gene sequences were used to define operational taxonomic units (OTUs) for T-RFLP analysis, which were distinguished by group-specific TaqI restriction sites. Sequence analysis showed a high degree of conservation of TaqI restriction sites within the different archaeal lineages present in Italian rice field soil. Direct T-RFLP analysis of archaeal populations in rice field soil slurries revealed the presence of all archaeal lineages detected by cloning with a predominance of terminal restriction fragments characteristic of rice cluster I (389 bp), Methanosaetaceae (280 bp), and Methanosarcinaceae/rice cluster VI (182 bp). In general, the relative gene frequency of most detected OTUs remained rather constant over time during the first 17 days after flooding of the soil. Most minor OTUs (e.g., Methanomicrobiaceae and rice cluster III) and Methanosaetaceae did not change in relative frequency. Rice cluster I (37 to 30%) and to a lesser extent rice cluster IV as well as Methanobacteriaceae decreased over time. Only the relative abundance of Methanosarcinaceae (182 bp) increased, roughly doubling from 15 to 29% of total archaeal gene frequency within the first 11 days, which was positively correlated to the dynamics of acetate and formate concentrations. Our results indicate that a functionally dynamic ecosystem, a rice field soil after flooding, was linked to a relatively stable archaeal community structure.
10879485	New abscisic acid analogs possessing a cyano or methoxycarbonyl group at the 6'alpha-position of methyl abscisate were synthesized by regioselective hydrocyanation. These compounds had weak activity in the rice second leaf sheath elongation test.
10882002	A new fungicide lead has been identified by enzyme screening of a focused combinatorial library. The lead compound 4, a potent inhibitor of scytalone dehydratase (SD), exhibits fungicidal activity upon foliar application but does not show systemic activity. The X-ray crystal structure of the enzyme-inhibitor complex and an appreciation for the relationship between physical properties and systemic activity enabled us to rapidly improve upon this initial lead. The geminal halogen-methyl group combination was found to be optimal for interaction with the bounding serine and asparagine side-chain residues. Replacement of CF3 with methyl was a key discovery, giving inhibitors with slightly diminished enzyme inhibition potency while significantly increasing systemic activity. Amides prepared from amines with 2,4-dichloro substitution on the phenyl ring gave the most potent enzyme inhibitors. Two compounds from this series showed systemic activity comparable to the commercial standard and were selected for outdoor testing in flooded plots which simulate rice paddies.
10882432	Microbial biomass and community structure in paddy rice soil during the vegetation period of rice were estimated by analysis of their phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA), hydroxy fatty acids of lipopolysaccharides (LPS-HYFA), and phospholipid ether lipids (PLEL) directly extracted from the soil. A clear change in the composition of the community structure at different sampling periods was observed, indicated by the principal component analysis of the PLFA. A dramatic decline of ester-linked PLFA was observed in the soil samples taken at the second sampling time. In contrast to the ester-linked PLFA, the non-ester-linked PLFA composition did not change. The hydroxy fatty acids of lipopolysaccharides as well as ether lipids decreased consecutively during the observation period. Total microbial abundance was estimated to be (4.1-7.3) x 10(9) cells g(-1) soil (dry weight). About 44% account for aerobic and 32% for facultative anaerobic bacteria, and 24% for archaea, on average. According to the profile and patterns of PLFA in the soil sample, it may be suggested that the paddy soil at the August sampling period contained more abundant facultative anaerobic bacteria (ca. 36%) and archaea (ca. 37%), but the total microbial biomass was significantly lower than in the remaining sampling periods. As the plant approached maturity, the microbial community structure in the soil changed to contain more abundant Gram-negative bacteria and methanotrophs.
10883285	The reaction conditions for rice AFLP assay were optimized. The relative efficiencies for polymorphism detection of RFLP, RAPD and AFLP were compared through the analysis between a pair of PGMS allelic mutant lines(NK58S and NK58F). Results indicated that the efficiency for polymorphism detection in rice is in the order of AFLP > RAPD > RFLP, and also indicated that AFLP is a powerful DNA molecular marker technique for polymorphism detection, especially in the cases of extremely low polymorphism, such as isogeneic lines and allelic mutant lines. The advantages and disadvantages of these three molecular marker systems were discussed. Using AFLP in conjunction with bulked segregating analysis, 5106 AFLP loci were screened and 9 of them showed polymorphism between NK58S and NK58F, 4 of the polymorphic AFLP products were cloned, Southern bloting analysis showed that two of them were single copy sequences while the other two were low copy sequences in rice genome.
10883536	Japonica rice cv 77170 was transformed with pBI222 carrying hygromycin phosphotransferase gene (hpt) by using biolistic bombardment and fertile transgenic rice plants were obtained. In T1 and most T2 generation the performance of hygromycin resistance was normal. Only in T2 progeny of SG-15 some lines showed decreased resistance. Mendelian inheritance of hygromycin resistance was showed as single dominant locus and proved by Southern blotting analysis in T1 and T2 generation of all transgenic plants. Multiple copies of hpt integrated into rice genome. These copies linked closely and inherited stablly. Msp I digested Southern blotting showed that methylation of hpt existed commonly in transgenic plants and their progeny, therefore uncomplete silencing of hpt in some T2 progeny of SG-15 was not associated with hpt methylation probably.
10883537	Five crosses between resistance and susceptible were analyzed to study major-polygene effect using major-polygene mixed mode. The result showed that 3 of 5 crosses were controlled by both major gene and polygene. In addition, there were large variation of additive effect, variance as well as heredity of major gene polygene in 3 crosses. Major gene was predominant in resistant variation, but durability should be considered. We suggested that construct major-polygene system be constructed in the long run in breeding program to ensure a durable and high level of resistance to constrain fluctuation of races of Xanthomonas campestris pv. oryzae population.
10883542	In the present study, the transient expression of maize C1-R regulatory genes of anthocyanin biosynthesis in maize calli, wheat immature embryos, rice calli and tobacco leaves were described. C1-R regulatory genes could activate anthocyanin biosynthesis in vivo and the pigmented cells were visible. For major crops, including maize, wheat and rice, which were transformed mainly by biolistic method, C1-R genes were novel visible markers, and the expression was easier to detect than GUS gene. And these genes also worked well in transient expression in biolistic transformation system of tobacco leaves.
10883615	Burn injuries often lead to significant cosmetic and functional deformity. In the Orient, household electric rice cookers have caused a significant number of steam burns to infant hands. The clinical course and treatment outcome of these burns have been studied retrospectively in a review of the medical records of 79 pediatric patients treated for acute hand steam burns and of 38 other patients who underwent correction for postburn contracture. Electric rice cookers caused all of the acute pediatric steam burns treated at our institute. Of the 81 hands treated between 1995 and 1998, 38.3 percent healed with conservative treatment and 61.7 percent required skin grafting. The volar aspects of the index and middle fingers were those most frequently involved. Eighteen of 36 hands (50 percent) grafted with split-thickness skin developed late contractures requiring additional procedures. Among the 38 patients who underwent correction for postburn deformity, initial treatment was split-thickness grafting for 60.5 percent, full-thickness skin grafting for 7.9 percent, and spontaneous healing for 31.6 percent. Awareness among medical personnel and continued public education should be promoted to help prevent this unique type of pediatric steam burn from occurring.
10884711	The main Fe storage organ in the body is the liver. In patients with chronic liver disease, secondary Fe overload is common. Phlebotomy, often used in the West to reduce Fe overload to improve the efficacy of interferon therapy, is not socially acceptable in India. We assessed the efficacy of a low-Fe diet in reducing serum Fe levels. Nineteen patients with hepatitis B- and C-related chronic liver disease, ten with normal (< 25 mumol/l) baseline serum Fe levels (group A) and nine with high (> 25 mumol/l) serum Fe levels (group B) were included. All the subjects were advised to eat a low-Fe diet. The daily Fe intake was reduced approximately 50% by consumption of the rice-based diet. Haemoglobin, serum Fe, transferrin saturation index (TSI), ferritin and alanine transaminase (EC 2.6.1.2) levels were studied at 1 and 4 months. Dietary Fe intake and body weight were closely monitored. All patients complied with the dietary regimen and at 4 months significant (P < 0.001) reductions from baseline were seen in serum Fe (20 (SD 3) v. 12 (SD 4) mumol/l group A; 30 (SD 3) v. 19 (SD 7) mumol/l group B) and TSI (38 (SD 8) v. 23 (SD 9)% group A; 53 (SD 15) v. 34 (SD 13)%, group B) in both the groups, albeit earlier in group B subjects. Serum ferritin levels, however, reduced only in group A (112 (SD 62) v. 43 (SD 25) ng/ml, P < 0.05) and not in group B. Non-significant reductions in haemoglobin levels were seen in both groups. Alanine transaminase levels reduced significantly (P < 0.05) in both the groups (95 (SD 49) v. 44 (SD 25) IU/l, group A; 82 (SD 16) v. 51 (SD 14) IU/l group B). Thus, a low-Fe diet results in significant reductions in serum Fe and TSI levels, irrespective of baseline Fe levels. This diet should be evaluated to improve the efficacy of interferon therapy in patients with hepatitis B- and C-related chronic liver disease.
10884714	Previous epidemiological studies have demonstrated relationships between individual nutrients and glucose intolerance and type 2 diabetes, but the association with the overall pattern of dietary intake has not previously been described. In order to characterize this association, 802 subjects aged 40-65 years were randomly selected from a population-based sampling frame and underwent a 75 g oral glucose-tolerance test. Principal component analysis was used to identify four dietary patterns explaining 31.7% of the dietary variation in the study cohort. These dietary patterns were associated with other lifestyle factors including socio-economic group, smoking, alcohol intake and physical activity. Component 1 was characterized by a healthy balanced diet with a frequent intake of raw and salad vegetables, fruits in both summer and winter, fish, pasta and rice and low intake of fried foods, sausages, fried fish, and potatoes. This component was negatively correlated with central obesity, fasting plasma glucose, 120 min non-esterified fatty acid and triacylglycerol, and positively correlated with HDL-cholesterol. It therefore appears to be protective for the metabolic syndrome. Component 1 was negatively associated with the risk of having undiagnosed diabetes, and this association was independent of age, sex, smoking and obesity. The findings support the hypothesis that dietary patterns are associated with other lifestyle factors and with glucose intolerance and other features of the metabolic syndrome. The results provide further evidence for the recommendation of a healthy balanced diet as one of the main components of chronic disease prevention.
10885791	Rice bran oil (RBO), when blended with safflower oil (SFO) at the ratio of 7 to 3, has been shown to lower serum cholesterol in humans consuming cholesterol. The mechanism as to how this oil blend exerts its effect is not yet clear. This study examined the effect of cholesterol supplementation on the cholesterol-lowering ability of different RBO/SFO blends. Male Sprague Dawley rats (4 wk old) were fed purified diets containing 10% fat with or without the addition of 0.5% cholesterol for 3 wk. The fat was either SFO or RBO alone, or the mixture of these two oils at the ratio of 7: 3 (7S/3R), 5:5 (5S/5R), or 3:7 (3S/7R). Without cholesterol supplementation, there were no significant differences in the serum and liver total cholesterol levels among different dietary fats. However, the HDL cholesterol level of rats fed the RBO-containing diets (especially in rats fed the 3S/7R diet) was higher than that of rats fed the diet containing SFO alone. This resulted in an increase in the ratio of HDL/total cholesterol-a desirable outcome. Supplementation of the diets with 0.5% cholesterol significantly increased the cholesterol level in both the serum and the liver. Increasing the proportion of RBO in the diet further raised the total cholesterol level in the serum whereas it reduced liver cholesterol. Then, the specific effect of the 3S/7R mixture on the ratio of HDL/total cholesterol disappeared. These findings suggest that cholesterol supplemented at the level of 0.5% in this study masked the cholesterol-lowering effect of RBO. Smaller percentages of polyunsaturated fatty acid (i.e., 18:2n-6) in the RBO-containing diets than in the SFO diet might have reduced their ability to dispose the circulating serum cholesterol into the liver.
10885795	Two typical storage proteins (prolamin and glutelin) in a total of 14 samples of ancient rice cultivars were examined for their accumulation in the endosperms during days after flowering (DAF), extraction efficiency with various solvents, and variations in polypeptide components or amino acid compositions. There was little difference in accumulation profiles between this and previous observations, in which glutelin appeared on 5-7 DAF and prolamin on 7-9 DAF. As for the extraction of prolamin and glutelin, it was most effectively attained by sequential usage of 55% propanol and 21% SDS. As a result of SDS-PAGE, prolamin and glutelin proved to be composed mainly of a single polypeptide with a molecular weight (MW) of 15 kDa and two subunits with MWs of 21 kDa (alpha) and 32 kDa (beta), respectively. A comparison between the ancient and modern rice cultivars revealed the same physicochemical properties in either case of prolamin or glutelin. Additionally, a good relationship was observed on the total protein and glutelin (but not prolamin) contents in the ancient rice cultivar.
10885800	Foxtail millet glutelin 60 kDa (MG60) was purified by preparative SDS-PAGE, and the N-terminal amino acid sequence was determined within 20 residues. The result demonstrated that the primary structure at N-terminal of MG60 was almost identical to those of the granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS) proteins from rice, barley, corn, wheat and potato. The existence of common epitopes among MG60 and GBSS proteins from these starch-storing cereals were corroborated by immunoblot analysis using antisera raised against MG60. These facts strongly suggest a close relationship between MG60-like glutelins and GBSS proteins.
10886776	We have produced 22 090 primary transgenic rice plants that carry a T-DNA insertion, which has resulted in 18 358 fertile lines. Genomic DNA gel-blot and PCR analyses have shown that approximately 65% of the population contains more than one copy of the inserted T-DNA. Hygromycin resistance tests revealed that transgenic plants contain an average of 1.4 loci of T-DNA inserts. Therefore, it can be estimated that approximately 25 700 taggings have been generated. The binary vector used in the insertion contained the promoterless beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene with an intron and multiple splicing donors and acceptors immediately next to the right border. Therefore, this gene trap vector is able to detect a gene fusion between GUS and an endogenous gene, which is tagged by T-DNA. Histochemical GUS assays were carried out in the leaves and roots from 5353 lines, mature flowers from 7026 lines, and developing seeds from 1948 lines. The data revealed that 1.6-2.1% of tested organs were GUS-positive in the tested organs, and that their GUS expression patterns were organ- or tissue-specific or ubiquitous in all parts of the plant. The large population of T-DNA-tagged lines will be useful for identifying insertional mutants in various genes and for discovering new genes in rice.
10887680	8987 is a late flowering (lf) indica cultivar. In this study, genetic analysis for lf was carried out in the crosses between 8987 and four varieties with different heading time. Inheritance of lf in F1 plants and F2 populations clearly revealed that the lf of 8987 is controlled by one recessive gene. Bulked-segregant method and cosegregation analysis in F2 population were used to screen molecular markers, which were linked with lf gene. The results showed that the lf gene was mapped between the two RFLP marker C213 and RG404 on chromosome 7. The tagged gene will be utilized in molecular marker assisted selection in the future rice breeding program for new varieties.
10887694	The genetic diversity of cultivated rice and common wild rice from 10 countries in Asia were evaluated by RFLP analysis using 44 probes of single copy. We used the parameters such as proportion of polymorphic loci (P), average number of alleles per locus (A), average number genotype per locus (Ng), degree of heterozygate per locus (Ho) and average gene diversity (Hs) showing genetic diversity. It is indicated that the common wild rice from China has the largest genetic diversity in the 10 countries, and the secondary is the common wild rice from India. The results also showed that the genetic diversity in Chinese common wild rice is larger than the genetic diversity in common wild rice of South and Southeast Asia. The average gene diversity (Hs) of South Asian wild rice is higher than Southeast Asian wild rice, while the parameters value of proportion of polymorphic loci (P), average number of alleles per locus (A) and average number genotype per locus (Ng), Southeast Asian wild rice is higher than South Asian wild rice. It is found that the genetic diversity in cultivated rice is obviously lower than in common wild rice. In the detected 44 loci, the number of polymorphic loci on O. sativa is as the same as 3/4 in O. rufipogon, the number of alleles in O. sativa is as the same as 60% in O. rufipogon, the number of genotype in O. sativa is as same as 1/2 in O. rufipogon. In O. sativa, the genetic diversity of indica is larger than that of japonica. O. rufipogon from China have highest value in degree of hetrozygate per locus (Ho), and Ho of wild rice is as two times as cultivated rice. It is showed that in the proceeding of wild rice evolved into cultivated rice, Ho and number of alleles was reduced, and the genetic diversity was decreased.
10888327	Ester compounds consisting of ferulic acid and myo-inositol, obtained from rice bran, were synthesized. The inhibitory effects of these feruloyl-myo-inositols on 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced superoxide (O2-) generation were examined using differentiated HL-60 cells. Among the derivatives tested, only 3,4,5,6-tetra-O-acetyl-1,2-di-O-[3-(4'-acetoxy-3'-methoxyphenyl)-2-pr openoyl]-myo-inositol (3) showed a distinct inhibitory activity.
10888481	The purpose of the present study was to examine the relationship of a food frequency pattern and survivorship in a cohort of community elderly residents (259 men, 445 women), aged 65 years old and over, based on a 7-year follow up study. Baseline survey was undertaken in July 1988 by door-to-door method. The cohort was followed up until August 1995, during which time survivorship of subjects was investigated periodically each year. Eighty-one men (31.3%) and 71 women (19.1%) died during the follow-up period. The food frequency pattern was examined by factor analysis based on a food frequency questionnaire for 15 food-groups at the baseline survey. Results obtained were as follows: 1)The first factor was expressive of frequent intake pattern of plant foods, the second factor was frequent intake pattern of meat, fat, and oil, the third factor was frequent intake pattern of bread and rice(negative), and the fourth factor was frequent intake pattern of salty pickled vegetables, fish, and shellfish. 2)The first factor as represented by frequent intake pattern of plant foods had significant negative effect on all-cause mortality for both the whole 7 years and the last 4 years surveys, adjusted for age, sex, education level, drinking habit, smoking habit, exercise habit, history of hypertension, and instrumental activities of daily living.
10888543	Six novel feruloyl esters of triterpene alcohols and sterols, viz., two trans-ferulates, cycloeucalenol and 24-methylenecholesterol trans-ferulates, and four cis-ferulates, cycloartenol, 24-methyelenecycloartanol, 24-methylcholesterol, and sitosterol cis-ferulates, besides five known trans-ferulates, cycloartenol (CAR), 24-methylenecycloartanol (24-MCA), 24-methylcholesterol, sitosterol, and stigmastanol trans-ferulates, and one known cis-ferulate, stigmastanol cis-ferulate, were isolated from the methanol extract of edible rice bran. These and eight other synthetic trans- and cis-ferulates of triterpene alcohols and sterols, along with the corresponding free alcohols, were evaluated with respect to their anti-inflammatory activity against 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced inflammation (1 microg per ear) in mice. All of the ferulates showed marked inhibitory activity, and their 50% inhibitory dose (ID(50)) was 0. 1-0.8 mg per ear. On the other hand, whereas two free triterpene alcohols, CAR and 24-MCA, showed strong inhibition (ID(50) 0.2-0.3 mg/ear), eight free sterols examined showed weaker activity (ID(50) 0.7-2.7 mg/ear) than their corresponding ferulates.
10889249	The genomic clone encoding an alpha-tubulin, OsTubA1, has been isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.). The gene consists of four exons and three introns. RNA-blot analysis showed that the gene is strongly expressed in actively dividing tissues, including root tips, young leaves, and young flowers. Analysis of chimeric fusions between OsTubA1 and beta-glucuronidase (GUS) revealed that the intron 1 was required for high-level GUS expression in actively dividing tissues, corresponding with normal expression pattern of OsTubA1. Fusion constructs lacking the intron 1 showed more GUS staining in mature tissues rather than young tissues. When the intron 1 was placed at the distal region from 5'-upstream region or at the 3'-untranslated region, no enhancement of GUS expression was observed. Sequential deletions of the OsTubA1 intron 1 brought about a gradual reduction of GUS activity in calli. These results suggest that tissue-preferential expression of the OsTubA1 gene is mediated by the intron 1 and that it may be involved in a mechanism for an efficient RNA splicing that is position dependent.
10890216	1. Male broilers (n=900) were fed on wheat-sorghum-soyabean meal based diets containing 3 concentrations of phytic acid (10.4, 13.2 and 15.7 g/kg; equivalent to 2.9, 3.7 and 4.4 g/kg phytate P), 2 concentrations of non-phytate (or available) phosphorus (2.3 and 4.5 g/kg) and 3 concentrations of microbial phytase (0, 400 and 800 FTU/kg) from day 7 to 25 post-hatch. The dietary concentrations of phytic acid were manipulated by the inclusion of rice pollards. All diets contained celite (20 g/kg) as a source of acid-insoluble ash. 2. The apparent metabolisable energy (AME) concentrations of the diets were determined using a classical total collection procedure during the 3rd week of the trial. On d 25, digesta from the terminal ileum were collected and analysed for phosphorus, nitrogen and amino acids. Nutrient digestibilities were calculated using acid-insoluble ash as the indigestible marker. 2. Ileal digestibilities of nitrogen and essential amino acids were negatively influenced by increasing dietary levels of phytic acid but these negative effects were overcome by the addition of phytase. 3. Supplemental phytase increased AME, ileal digestibilities of phosphorus, nitrogen and amino acids and the retention of dry matter, phosphorus and nitrogen in broilers. There were no differences in the phytase responses between additions of 400 and 800 FTU/kg. 4. The responses in all variables, except AME, were greater in low non-phytate phosphorus diets. 5. In the case of AME, the response to added phytase was greater in adequate non-phytate phosphorus diets. Supplemental phytase increased AME values from 13.36 to 13.54 MJ/kg dry matter in low non-phytate phosphorus diets and from 12.66 to 13.38 MJ/kg dry matter in adequate non-phytate phosphorus diets.
10890525	This review describes the quantitative analysis of in-capillary reactions by using capillary electrophoresis (CE) in the food industry. An electrophoretic analysis of products of an enzyme reaction of a substrate by in-capillary reaction was useful for the activity measurement of glucoamylase in sake rice koji. p-Nitrophenyl-beta-D-maltoside was employed as a substrate and p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside was the product of the enzyme reaction. The glucoamylase activity of sake rice koji samples gave a good linear relationship with the peak area observed in the in-capillary enzyme reaction method. Also, in-capillary micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) was used for analyzing the Monascus pigment-mediated degradation of mutagenic 3-hydroxyamino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole. During the electrophoresis, the mutagen and the pigment, due to their different migration velocities, mix for a certain period of time to interact, and then they are separated and quantitated. The in-capillary reaction MEKC method can be applied to the routine quality control of enzyme activities in the food industry and the evaluation of mutagenic compounds in food materials.
10890535	A flower-predominant cDNA for a gene, termed OsChia 1;175, was isolated from a cDNA library of rice pistils. Northern blot and RT-PCR analyses revealed that the OsChia 1;175 gene is highly expressed in floral organs (pistils, stamens and lodicules at the heading stage) but not or at an extremely low level in vegetative organs. OsChia 1;175 encodes a protein that consists of 340 amino acid residues, and the putative mature protein shows 52% to 63% amino acid identity to class I chitinases of rice or other plants. The phylogenetic tree shows that the OsChia 1;175 protein is a new type of plant class I chitinase in rice. The expression of OsChia 1;175 in vegetative organs is not induced by several chemicals, UV, and wounding. The soluble putative mature OsChia 1;175 protein expressed in Escherichia coli exhibited chitinase activity in the assay with colloidal chitin as a substrate. Genomic Southern analysis revealed that the OsChia 1;175 gene was organized as a low-copy gene family. The rice genomic library was screened and a genome clone corresponding to OsChia 1;175 was isolated. The transcription start sites of the OsChia 1;175 gene were mapped by primer extension analysis. The 1.2 kb putative promoter region of the OsChia 1;175 gene was fused to the GUS (beta-glucuronidase) gene, and this chimeric gene was introduced to rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The flower-predominant gene expression was identified also in the transgenic rice plants. The high promoter activity was detected in the stigmas, styles, stamens and lodicules in transgenic plants. The possible functions of OsChia 1;175 are discussed.
10890757	Scanning electron microscope (SEM) pictures of small millet starch granules showed more large polygonal and few small spherical or polygonal granules. The granules of small millets resembled those of rice starch granules. The size of the starch granules ranged from 0.8-10 microm. The size of the granules was larger in barnyard millet and smaller in proso millet. Several granules showed deep indentation caused by protein bodies. SEM of starch isolated from 24 hour-germinated kodo millet showed pitting or pinholes at some points due to the attack of amylases (preferentially on bigger granules). Brabender viscoamylograph studies on small millet starches revealed that the gelatinization temperatures ranged from 75.8 to 84.9 degrees C. Barnyard millet possessed lower amylograph viscosity, minimum breakdown, and relative breakdown values when compared to the other small millets.
10892490	Cholera has been recognized as a killer disease since earliest time. Since 1817, six pandemics have swept over the world, and the seventh one is in progress. The disease is caused by infection of the small intestine by Vibrio cholerae O1 and O139 and is characterized by massive acute diarrhoea, vomiting, and dehydration: death occurs in severe, untreated cases. Cholera is a highly contagious disease, and is transmitted primarily by ingestion of faecally-contaminated water by susceptible persons. Besides water, foods have also been recognized as an important vehicle for transmission of cholera. Foods are likely to be faecally contaminated during preparation, particularly by infected food handlers in an unhygienic environment. The physicochemical characteristics of foods that support survival and growth of V. cholerae O1 and O139 include high-moisture content, neutral or an alkaline pH, low temperature, high-organic content, and absence of other competing bacteria. Seafoods, including fish, shellfish, crabs, oysters and clams, have all been incriminated in cholera outbreaks in many countries, including the United States and Australia. Contaminated rice, millet gruel, and vegetables have also been implicated in several outbreaks. Other foods, including fruits (except sour fruits), poultry, meat, and dairy products, have the potential of transmitting cholera. To reduce the risk of food-borne transmission of cholera, it is recommended that foods should be prepared, served, and eaten in an hygienic environment, free from faecal contamination. Proper cooking, storing, and re-heating of foods before eating, and hand-washing with safe water before eating and after defaecation are important safety measures for preventing food-borne transmission of cholera.
10896122	Dual specificity protein phosphatases (DSPases) are key regulators of signal transduction, oncogenesis and the cell cycle. Few potent or specific inhibitors of DSPases, however, are readily available for these pharmacological targets. We have used a combinatorial/parallel synthetic approach to rigidify the variable core region and modify the side chains of 4-(benzyl-(2-[2,5-diphenyl-oxazole-4-carbonyl)-amino]-ethyl)-carbamoyl)- 2-decanoylamino butyric acid (or SC-alphaalphadelta9), which is the most active element in a previously described library of phosphatase inhibitors (Rice, R. L.; Rusnak, J. M.; Yokokawa, F.; Yokokawa, S.; Messner, D. J.; Boynton, A. L.; Wipf, P.; Lazo, J. S. Biochemistry 1997, 36, 15965). Several analogues were identified as effective inhibitors of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTPase) PTP1B and the DSPases VHR and Cdc25B2. Two compounds, FY3-alphaalpha09 and FY21-alphaalpha09, were partial competitive inhibitors of Cdc25B2 with Ki values of 7.6+/-0.5 and 1.6+/-0.2 microM, respectively. FY21-alphaalpha09 possessed only moderate activity against PTP1B. Consistent with its in vitro anti-phosphatase activity, FY21-alphaalpha09 inhibited growth in MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 human breast cancer cell lines. FY21-alphaalpha09 also inhibited the G2/M transition in tsFT210 cells, consistent with Cdc25B inhibition. Several architectural requirements for DSPase inhibition were revealed through modification of the side chain moieties or variable core region of the pharmacophore, which resulted in decreased compound potency. The structure of FY21-alphaalpha09 provides a useful platform from which additional potent and more highly selective phosphatase inhibitors might be generated.
1089731
10897478	Administration of pro-R-methyl-13C-labeled isofucosterol to cultured cells of Oryza sativa revealed that the pro-R and pro-S methyls at C-25 become the pro-R and pro-S methyls at C-25 of sitosterol, respectively. Similar administration experiments using pro-S-methyl-13C-labeled 24-methylenecholesterol established that the pro-R and pro-S methyls at C-25 of 24-methylenecholesterol become the pro-R and pro-S methyls of campesterol, and the pro-S and pro-R methyls of dihydrobrassicasterol, respectively. These results are compatible with our recently proposed 'syn-SE2' mechanism' for double bond isomerization of delta 24(28) into delta 24(25).
10898601	Three types of rices, namely, Thailand rice (Indica), Nipponbare (Japonica), and Himenomochi (Japonica waxy), in grain, flour, and starch forms have been studied for their thermal and physicochemical properties. In grain form, Indica was slender and Japonica rices were bold and thick. Indica had the highest protein and amylose equivalent. Protein contents in isolated starches varied from 0.2 to 0.9%. Cooked Indica grain was hardest and waxy rice was softest; stickiness was highest in Japonica rice. Glass transition temperature (T(g)) was highest in Indica rice flour (approximately 222 degrees C) and almost the same in Japonica rice flours. Melting point was highest for Japonica (approximately 264 degrees C) and almost the same for Japonica waxy and Indica rice flours. T(g) values of starches were almost the same in Indica and Japonica waxy (approximately 237 degrees C); defatting caused reduction in this property in all of the starches. Highest melting point was shown by Indica starch (approximately 276 degrees C) and was almost the same for the other two starches. Protein and fats play a critical role in glass transition and melting points of rice flours and their respective starches. Viscosities of the cooked pastes of flour and starch during cooking in an RVA instrument and their gel and other properties have been discussed.
10898978	The phragmoplast executes cytokinesis in higher plants. The major components of the phragmoplast are microtubules, which are arranged in two mirror-image arrays perpendicular to the division plane [1]. The plus ends of these microtubules are located near the site of the future cell plate. Golgi-derived vesicles are transported along microtubules towards the plus ends to deliver materials bound for the cell plate [2] [3]. During cell division, rapid microtubule reorganization in the phragmoplast requires the orchestrated activities of microtubule motor proteins such as kinesins. We isolated an Arabidopsis cDNA clone of a gene encoding an amino-terminal motor kinesin, AtPAKRP1, and have determined the partial sequence of its rice homolog. Immunofluorescence experiments with two sets of specific antibodies revealed consistent localization of AtPAKRP1 and its homolog in Arabidopsis and rice cells undergoing anaphase, telophase and cytokinesis. AtPAKRP1 started to accumulate along microtubules towards the spindle midzone during late anaphase. Once the phragmoplast microtubule array was established, AtPAKRP1 conspicuously localized to microtubules near the future cell plate. Our results provide evidence that AtPAKRP1 is a hitherto unknown motor that may take part in the establishment and/or maintenance of the phragmoplast microtubule array.
10899147	As part of an international effort to sequence the rice genome, the Clemson University Genomics Institute is developing a sequence-tagged-connector (STC) framework. This framework includes the generation of deep-coverage BAC libraries from O. sativa ssp. japonica c.v. Nipponbare and the sequencing of both ends of the genomic DNA insert of the BAC clones. Here, we report a survey of the transposable elements (TE) in >73,000 STCs. A total of 6848 STCs were found homologous to regions of known TE sequences (E<10(-5)) by FASTX search of STCs against a set of 1358 TE protein sequences obtained from GenBank. Of these TE-containing STCs (TE-STCs), 88% (6027) are related to retroelements and the remaining are transposase homologs. Nearly all DNA transposons known previously in plants were present in the STCs, including maize Ac/Ds, En/Spm, Mutator, and mariner-like elements. In addition, 2746 STCs were found to contain regions homologous to known miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs). The distribution of these MITEs in regions near genes was confirmed by EST comparisons to MITE-containing STCs, and our results showed that the association of MITEs with known EST transcripts varies by MITE type. Unlike the biased distribution of retroelements in maize, we found no evidence for the presence of gene islands when we correlated TE-STCs with a physical map of the CUGI BAC library. These analyses of TEs in nearly 50 Mb of rice genomic DNA provide an interesting and informative preview of the rice genome.
10901170	A cDNA encoding a receptor-like kinase, designated NtTMK1, was isolated from Nicotiana tabacum. The kinase domain of NtTMK1 contained all of 12 subdomains and invariant amino acid residues found in eukaryotic protein kinases. The extracellular domain contained 11 leucine-rich repeats which have been implicated in protein-protein interactions. The amino acid sequence of NtTMK1 exhibited high homology with those of TMK1 of Arabidopsis and TMK of rice in both kinase and extracellular domains, suggesting that NtTMK1 is a TMK homologue of tobacco. The NtTMK1 transcripts were present in all major plant organs, but its level varied in different developmental stages in anthers and floral organs. NtTMK1 mRNA accumulation in leaves was stimulated by CaCl2, methyl jasmonate, wounding, fungal elicitors, chitins, and chitosan. The NtTMK1 mRNA level also increased upon infection with tobacco mosaic virus.
10901618	Accumulation of amino acids was studied in rice roots of 3-day-old seedlings subjected for 48h to anaerobic conditions. Alanine and Gaba were the main amino acids accumulated under anoxia. Their synthesis was strongly inhibited by MSX and AZA, inhibitors of glutamine synthetase and glutamate synthase. These activities increased after 8h of anaerobic treatment and, by immunoprecipitation of 35S-labeled proteins, it was shown that glutamine synthetase and ferredoxin-dependent glutamate synthase were synthesized during the treatment. These findings indicate that the glutamine synthetase/glutamate synthase cycle play an important role in anaerobic amino acid accumulation.
10902191	Large-scale expression data, such as that generated by hybridization to microarrays, is potentially a rich source of information on gene function and regulation. By clustering genes according to their expression profiles, groups of genes involved in the same pathways or sharing common regulatory mechanisms may be identified. Publicly-available EST collections are a largely unexplored source of expression data. We previously used a sample of rice ESTs to generate 'digital expression profiles' by counting the frequency of tags for different genes sequenced from different cDNA libraries. A simple statistical test was used to associate genes or cDNA libraries having similar expression profiles. Here we further validate this approach using larger samples of ESTs from the UniGene projects (clustered human, mouse and rat ESTs). Our results show that genes clustered on the basis of expression profile may represent genes implicated in similar pathways or coding for different subunits of multi-component enzyme complexes. In addition we suggest that comparison of clusters from different species, may be useful for confirmation or prediction of orthologs.
10902712	A 2.2-kb nucleotide sequence rich in AT, located upstream from the Bx7 allele of the high-molecular-weight glutenin Glu-B1 locus in wheat (Triticum aestivum cv. Glenlea) was cloned following amplification by PCR. The 5' region of this sequence contains motifs typically found in matrix attachment regions (MARs) in other plants. We have shown that part of the 2.2-kb DNA binds to wheat nuclear matrix (NM) in vitro, at least as strongly as a known MAR (Adh1) from maize suggesting that there is a MAR upstream of Bx7. This MAR is approximately 800 bases in length running from -750 to -1560 bases, relative to the start codon. Although the MAR is associated with a tissue-specific gene and is beside a strong tissue-specific promoter, the MAR sequence did not lead to tissue-specific expression of the beta-glucuronidase marker gene under the control of the rice actin promoter in various tissues. Presence of the MAR was only slightly beneficial with respect to expression levels, which were not greatly altered in transient expression assays in various wheat tissues although a slight increase in the number of foci was observed in leaves, which have low transformation efficiencies.
10903099	Growth of three rice varieties (Heera, Dhala Heera and Narendra-118) and their relationship with methane consumption was investigated under rainfed (dryland) condition. Overall methane flux rates ranged between -0.58 to 1.25 mg m(-2) h(-1) across varieties, treatments, and dates of measurements. Except for two days when soil was saturated, the soil consumed 0.05-0.58 mg CH4 m(-2) h(-1); these rates were inversely related with soil moisture. N-fertilization reduced consumption rates. Although all plant growth parameters, except for number of tillers, exhibited relationship with methane consumption in control plots, only root porosity did so in fertilized plots. Combinations of plant growth characteristics explained 74-92% variability in seasonal CH4 consumption in unfertilized plots. It was concluded that methane consumption by dryland soils was influenced by rice variety, soil moisture and nitrogen fertilization.
10903382	High throughput analysis of differential gene expression is a powerful tool that can be applied to many areas in molecular cell biology, including differentiation, development, physiology, and pharmacology. In recent years, a variety of techniques have been developed to analyze differential gene expression, including comparative expressed sequence tag sequencing, differential display, representational difference analysis, cDNA or oligonucleotide arrays, and serial analysis of gene expression. This review explains the technologies, their scopes, impact on science, as well as their costs and possible limitations. The application of differential display is presented as a tool to identify genes induced by darkness or yellowing process in rice leaves.
10903912	A novel rice acidic pathogenesis-related (PR) class 1 cDNA (OsPR1a) was isolated from jasmonic acid (JA)-treated rice seedling leaf. The OsPR1a cDNA is 830 bp long and contains an open reading frame of 507 nucleotides encoding 168 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 17,560 and pI of 4.4. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsPR1a has a high level of identity with acidic and basic PR1 proteins from plants. Southern analysis revealed that OsPR1a is a member of a multigene family. The OsPR1a gene was found to be cut-inducible, whereas the phytohormones JA, salicylic acid (SA), 3-indoleacetic acid, gibberellin, and ethylene (using ethylene generator ethephon, ET) enhanced accumulation of OsPR1a transcript, as well as the protein phosphatase inhibitors cantharidin (CN) and endothall (EN). Induced expression of OsPR1a gene by JA, CN or EN, and ET was light/dark- and dose-dependent and was almost completely inhibited by cycloheximide. Dark downregulated CN-, EN-, and ET-induced OsPR1a gene expression, whereas it was further enhanced with JA. SA and abscisic acid blocked JA-induced OsPR1a transcript. Simultaneous application of staurosporine (ST) enhances CH- or EN-induced OsPR1a transcript, but not with JA. This is the first report on cloning of a rice acidic PR1 gene (OsPR1a), which is regulated by phytohormones, phosphorylation/dephosphorylation event(s), and light.
10906260	Actinomyces hordeovulneris was isolated from the lesions of chronic pyogranulomatous pleuritis and pericarditis of one of three dogs showing similar symptoms. The parietal pleura and the pericardium were thickened and covered with fine short threads of angiofibroblastic tissue. About 500-1000 ml of reddish purulent exudate in the thorax of all three dogs contained large numbers of rice-grain-sized, soft, yellowish-white granules ("sulphur granules"). These granules had a central core of branching filaments of gram-positive bacteria embedded in thick granulation tissue. The parietal pleura, the mediastinal pleura and the pericardium were infiltrated mainly with neutrophils, and to a lesser extent with lymphocytes and plasma cells. A small number of eosinophils and giant cells was also observed. Large numbers of pyogranulomas embedded in the granulation tissue were composed of a core of necrotized granulation tissue, mixed with clusters of gram-positive branching bacteria, surrounded by an area of intact and degenerating neutrophils and lymphocytes. Bacteria were detected in the lesions by Brown-Brenn staining and were isolated from one of the affected animals. The isolated bacteria were identified as A. hordeovulneris. This was the first isolation of A. hordeovulneris in Hungary.
10907245	Three starches (maize, rice and wheat), and the two non-starch polysaccharides xanthan and locust bean gum galactomannan (LBG) were examined in gel and dough systems for texture and stability properties during freezing and low temperature storage. Xanthan and LBG were found to confer increased resistance to freeze/thaw cycling on rice starch gels but the non-starch polysaccharides had little effect on the performance of maize and wheat starch gels or on wheat dough.
10908802	The activities of malate dehydrogenase in whole tissue extract (NAD(+)-MDH) as well as in mitochondrial (NAD(+)-MDH) and chloroplastic (NADP(+)-MDH) preparations of aminating (NADH-GDH) and deaminating(NAD(+)-GDH) glutamate dehydrogenases were studied in two sets of rice cultivars differing in salt tolerance grown under moderate (7 dS m(-1)) and high (14 dS m(-1)) NaCl salinity levels. A contrasting response to salinity on enzyme activities was found between the sensitive and tolerant cultivars during a 5-20-day growth period of study. NaCl salinity in situ caused increase in all three MDH activities in salt tolerant cvs. CSR-1 and CSR-3 whereas in salt sensitive cvs. Ratna and Jaya 16-100% inhibition in activities was noted. Chloroplastic MDH was extremely sensitive to NaCl. In seedlings of salt tolerant cultivars concomitant increase in both aminating and deaminating GDH activities was observed with increase in salinity level, whereas in sensitive cultivars under higher salinity level decrease in GDH activity was noted. Under in vitro conditions NaCl concentration in the range 1-1000 mM caused gradual inhibition in MDH activity. With 400 mM NaCl in vitro, complete loss of mitochondrial and chloroplastic MDH activities was observed. GDH activity increased with increasing concentration of NaCl up to 200 mM NaCl and other salts in vitro and was inhibited thereafter. However 800 mM NaCl caused complete loss of deaminating GDH activity from sensitive cultivar but not from tolerant cultivar. Results suggest varying behaviour of MDH and GDH in two sets of rice cultivars differing in salt tolerance and that inhibition in the activities of dehydrogenases in salt sensitive rice cultivars due to salinity may be one of the possible reasons for decreased growth of rice plants under saline conditions.
10908811	The relationship between ammonium accumulation and senescence of detached rice leaves caused by excess cadmium (Cd) was investigated. CdCl(2) was effective in increasing ammonium content in detached rice leaves under both light and dark conditions. Both CdCl(2) and CdSO(4) induced ammonium accumulation in detached rice leaves, indicating that ammonium accumulation is induced by Cd ions. CdCl(2)-promoted senescence and ammonium accumulation is not specific for the rice cultivar used in this study. The senescence of detached rice leaves induced by CdCl(2) was found to be prior to ammonium accumulation. CdCl(2) induces more ammonium accumulation in the dark than in the light. However, CdCl(2) treatment was found to be less effective in promoting senescence in the dark than in the light. The current results suggest that ammonium accumulation is not associated with the senescence of detached rice leaves induced by Cd. Evidence was presented to show that CdCl(2)-induced ammonium accumulation in detached rice leaves is attributed to a decrease in glutamine synthetase (GS) activity.
10913142	Isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IVD, EC) catalyzes the third step in the catabolism of leucine in mammals. Deficiency of this enzyme leads to the clinical disorder isovaleric acidemia. IVD has been purified and characterized from human and rat liver, and the x-ray crystallographic structure of purified recombinant human IVD has been reported. Nothing is known about IVD activity in plants, although cDNA clones from Arabidopsis thaliana and partial sequences from Gossypium hirsutum and Oryza sativa have been identified as putative IVDs based on sequence homology and immuno cross-reactivity. In this report we describe the identification and characterization of an IVD from pea, purification of the enzyme using a novel and rapid auxin affinity chromatography matrix, and cloning of the corresponding gene. At the amino acid level, pea IVD is 60% similar to human and rat IVD. The specific activity and abundance of plant IVD was found to be significantly lower than for its human counterpart and exhibits developmental regulation. Substrate specificity of the plant enzyme is similar to the human IVD, and it cross-reacts to anti-human IVD antibodies. Molecular modeling of the pea enzyme based on the structure of human IVD indicates a high degree of structural similarity among these enzymes. Glu-244, shown to function as the catalytic base in human IVD along with most of the amino acids that make up the acyl CoA binding pocket, is conserved in pea IVD. The genomic structure of the plant IVD gene consists of 13 exons and 12 introns, spanning approximately 4 kilobases, and the predicted RNA splicing sites exhibit the extended consensus sequence described for other plant genes.
10913973	The rice sheath blight pathogen, Rhizoctonia solani, produces a toxin designated as RS-toxin, a carbohydrate compound containing mainly alpha-glucose and mannose. Different microflora were tested for RS-toxin inactivation. Isolates of Trichoderma viride inactivated this toxin when it was provided as the sole food source, and these isolates reduced the severity of toxin-induced symptoms and electrolyte leakage from rice cells. The best-performing isolate, TvMNT7, produced two extracellular proteins of 110 and 17 kDa. The high molecular mass protein was shown to have alpha-glucosidase activity. The purified 110 kDa protein was able to reduce RS-toxin activity.
1091660	Eight isolates of C. albicans were used to determine the frequency with which germ tube formation occurred: on rice extract -Tween 80 agar, on its components, and on 1% bactopeptone agar after three hr at 37 degrees C; in 0.5% aqueous solution of various carbohydrates; in various concentrations of glucose; on 0.5 and 0.1% glucose agar and on various types of agar alone. Subsequently 250 isolates of yeast of the genera Candida, Torulopsis, Trichosporon, Cryptococcus, and Saccharomyces, which were obtained from a clinical laboratory, were spread on rice extract -Tween 80 agar and on 0.1% glucose agar and covered with coverslips. Direct microscopic examination after incubation for three hours at 37 degrees C demonstrated germ tube formation by all 140 isolates of C. albicans, but by none of the other yeasts. The characteristic features of the pseudomycelia of isolates of Candida and Trichosporon were evident on reexamination after a further 45 to 69 hours at room temperature (22 degrees C). These morphological observations suggested the identity of the isolates of Torulopsis, Cryptococcus, and Saccharomyces but identified virtually all (98.2%) of those of the genera which formed pseudomycelia. Of the latter group only four isolates required fermentation and assimilation tests to determine whether they were C. parapsilosis (1) or C. guilliermondii (3).
10917913	This study was designed to investigate the effects of different proportions of rice starch and cornstarch on lipid metabolism in rats fed high dietary cholesterol. Male Wistar rats were fed a 10 g/100 g fat diet containing 1 g/100 g cholesterol with 0 (control diet), 15, 30, 45 or 63 g/100 g rice starch with an enzyme resistant starch concentration of 1.26, 1.39, 1.52, 1.65 or 1.80 g/100 g, respectively, for 4 wk. Groups fed diets with < 63 g/100 g rice starch were supplemented with cornstarch to 63 g/100 g. The two kinds of starch had different structures as seen using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The rice starch was an aggregation (n = 20-60) of smaller granules (3-8 microm in diameter), whereas the cornstarch was composed of larger (5-15 microm in diameter), single granules. The compound rice starch (0.99 kg/L) was larger in size and denser in structure than cornstarch (0.63 kg/L). Serum total cholesterol concentrations in rats fed both the 45 and 63 g/100 g rice starch diets were significantly lower than in all other groups (P < 0.05). The serum propionate concentration in the rats fed 63 g/100 g rice starch diets was significantly higher than that of other groups. Hepatic triglyceride and total cholesterol concentrations in rats fed 63 g/100 g rice starch diets were significantly lower than in the control group. These results suggest that, because the compound rice starch was an aggregation of smaller granules, larger in size and denser in structure than cornstarch, it was digested more slowly and altered lipid metabolism. Resistant rice starch may be fermented to produce propionate, which reduces serum and hepatic cholesterol.
10918132	The regioselectivity of enzymatic transglycosylation of 6-O-acetyl glycosides in supersaturated solutions was investigated using a range of commercially available enzymes, Escherichia coli, barley, and Kluyveromyces spp. beta-galactosidase, green coffee bean alpha-galactosidase, jack bean alpha-mannosidase, rice alpha-glucosidase, and almond beta-glucosidase. It has been shown that 6-O-acetyl glycosides serve as good substrates for these enzymes, which, under the reaction conditions, are "forced" to transfer monosaccharide units to the secondary hydroxyl groups of the acceptors. In a variety of transglycosylations studied the (1-3)-linked disaccharide products were the predominant regioisomers isolated. The selectivity of the reaction varied significantly depending on the acceptor glycosides and the enzyme used. Exquisite specificity was observed in some cases, but in others approximately equal quantities of two disaccharides products were isolated. In the best transfers the yield approached 30%. The methodology described offers a quick and facile route to disaccharides that may be difficult and/or time consuming to make by conventional chemical synthesis.
10919396	The purpose of this work was to investigate the induction of stress shock proteins in Burkholderia sp. YK-2 in response to the phenoxyherbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The stress shock proteins, which contribute to the resistance of the cytotoxic effect of 2,4-D, were induced at different 2,4-D concentrations in exponentially growing cultures of Burkholderia sp. YK-2. This response involved the induction of a 43-kDa DnaK and 41-kDa GroEL proteins, characterized by SDS-PAGE and Western blot by use of the anti-DnaK and anti-GroEL monoclonal antibodies. The total stress shock proteins were analyzed by 2-D PAGE. Survival of Burkholderia sp. YK-2 with time in the presence of different concentrations of 2,4-D was monitored, and viable counts paralleled the induction of the stress shock proteins in this strain.
10919720	Comparative G- and C-banding analysis in three species of rice rats, namely Oryzomys megacephalus from Peru and French Guiana, O. yunganus (Peru) and O. nitidus (Bolivia) was carried out. It revealed that Peruvian O. megacephalus (2N = 52, NFa = 62) and that from French Guiana (2N = 54, NFa = 64) differ from each other by one Rb translocation and one heterochromatic arm addition/deletion. Three further Rb translocations separate them from O. yunganus (2N = 58, NFa = 62). Only 16 out of 39 autosomal pairs of O. nitidus (2N = 80, NFa = 86) shared homologous banding patterns with O. yunganus, 4 of which were involved in tandem translocations to form the larger chromosomes in two other taxa. The study suggests that O. megacephalus, O. yunganus and O. laticeps studied previously form a monophyletic group in good agreement with earlier molecular and morphological data. By contrast, the limited homologous banding patterns found between them and O. nitidus cast doubt on its belonging to the same phylogenetic lineage. In the light of available chromosomal and molecular data, the significance of intra- and interspecies karyotypic variability within Oryzomys and its relevance to systematics and phylogeny of the genus are discussed.
10919783	Bacterial communities in the large intestines of pigs were compared using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis targeting the 16S ribosomal DNA. The pigs were fed different experimental diets based on either modified standard feed or cooked rice supplemented with dietary fibers. After feeding of the animals with the experimental diets for 2 weeks, differences in the bacterial community structure in the spiral colon were detected in the form of different profiles of terminal restriction fragments (T-RFs). Some of the T-RFs were universally distributed, i.e., they were found in all samples, while others varied in distribution and were related to specific diets. The reproducibility of the T-RFLP profiles between individual animals within the diet groups was high. In the control group, the profiles remained unchanged throughout the experiment and were similar between two independent but identical experiments. When the animals were experimentally infected with Brachyspira hyodysenteriae, causing swine dysentery, many of the T-RFs fluctuated, suggesting a destabilization of the microbial community.
10919788	A novel protein-deamidating enzyme, which has potential for industrial applications, was purified from the culture supernatant of Chryseobacterium proteolyticum strain 9670(T) isolated from rice field soil in Tsukuba, Japan. The deamidating activities on carboxybenzoxy (Cbz)-Gln-Gly and caseins and protease activity were produced synchronously by the isolate. Both deamidating activities were eluted as identical peaks separated from several proteases by phenyl-Sepharose chromatography of the culture supernatant. The enzyme catalyzed the deamidation of native caseins with no protease and transglutaminase activities. Phenotypic characterization and DNA analyses of the isolate were performed to determine its taxonomy. Physiological and biochemical characteristics, 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, and DNA-DNA relatedness data indicated that the isolate should be placed as a new species belonging to the genus Chryseobacterium. The isolate showed no growth on MacConkey agar and produced acid from sucrose. The levels of DNA-DNA relatedness between the isolate and other related strains were less than 17%. The name Chryseobacterium proteolyticum is proposed for the new species; strain 9670 is the type strain (=FERM P-17664).
10920549	Vitamin D deficiency rickets is rare among infants and children in the industrialized countries. In this paper, we report a 2-year-5-month-old girl with aching and bowed legs. A food allergy with atopic dermatitis was diagnosed since her early infancy. Strict dietary restrictions were done and she was mostly fed soybean juice and rice foods. Fortified soybean formula (Isomil) was introduced one month before admission. Vitamin D deficiency rickets was diagnosed by a history of inappropriate feeding, roentgenographic and laboratory findings. The therapeutic regimen included 1, 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol 0.5 ug/day and calcium carbonate 100 mg/kg/day. Extensive nutritional counseling was also given for correction of aberrant dietary practices. After a one-year follow-up, there was radiological evidence of bone healing, and marked improvement of leg deformities.
10921413	Mapping the geographical distribution of duodenal ulcer in relation to staple diets, and experiments on animal peptic ulcer models suggested that the lipid fraction in certain foodstuffs had a protective effect which was most marked in the lipid obtained from Horse gram (Dolichos biflorus). Lipid obtained from stored polished rice or rice bran was ulcerogenic. Further animal experiments were designed to investigate the protective and healing effects of Horse gram lipid (HGL) against peptic ulceration. Three effects were investigated in rats: (i) the protective effect of HGL on peptic ulceration produced by using pyloric ligation in combination with South Indian diet or rice bran oil, or by cysteamine, alcohol or aspirin; (ii) the effect of HGL on mast cell degranulation in response to pyloric ligation and rice bran oil; and (iii) the healing effect of HGL on acute gastric ulceration produced by alcohol, on chronic gastric ulceration produced by topical acetic acid or on chronic duodenal ulcer following cysteamine. Horse gram lipid was shown to be protective and to promote ulcer healing in all the models used. Mast cell degranulation was inhibited. The experiments confirm the presence of a lipid in certain staple foods that have protective and healing properties in experimental peptic ulcer animal models. The differences in the prevalence of duodenal ulceration between different regions in some developing countries with a high prevalence of Helicobacter pylori infection might be explained by the presence or absence of protective lipids or ulcerogenic factors in the staple diet.
10922369	The host range of Pseudomonas avenae is wide among monocotyledonous plants, but individual strains can infect only one or a few host species. The resistance response of rice cells to pathogens has been previously shown to be induced by a rice-incompatible strain, N1141, but not by a rice-compatible strain, H8301. To clarify the molecular mechanism of the host specificity in P. avenae, a strain-specific antibody that was raised against N1141 cells and then absorbed with H8301 cells was prepared. When a cell extract of strain N1141 was separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunostained with the N1141 strain-specific antibody, only a flagellin protein was detected. Purified N1141 flagellin induced the hypersensitive cell death in cultured rice cells within 6 h of treatment, whereas the H8301 flagellin did not. The hypersensitive cell death could be blocked by pretreatment with anti-N1141 flagellin antibody. Furthermore, a flagellin-deficient N1141 strain lost not only the induction ability of hypersensitive cell death but also the expression ability of the EL2 gene, which is thought to be one of the defense-related genes. These results demonstrated that the resistance response in cultured rice cells is induced by the flagellin existing in the incompatible strain of P. avenae but not in the flagellin of the compatible strain.
10925199	The eukaryotic ribosomal protein (RP) L9 is highly conserved in nature, and its gene is expressed to high levels in the actively growing tissues of pea. The transcriptional activity of the gene is highest in root, cambial and shoot meristems and immature tissues of the plant. Promoter deletion analysis using constructs employing the reporter gene gus were stably transferred into tobacco and revealed that the fully functional promoter is found in the first 316bp upstream from the start codon. Transgenic pea plants carrying one of these constructs show that translational efficiency mirrors gene transcription; gene expression appears to be developmentally regulated at the level of transcription. The coding region of the gene shares 80% amino acid homology with Arabidopsis and 76% homology with rice. Comparisons of the gene structure to that of the human, fruit fly, yeast, and Arabidopsis homologues reveal a close relationship in both promoter structure and intron insertion sites with the Arabidopsis gene. A nucleotide sequence alignment of the pea gene with other plant RP genes revealed that a sequence, -TTAGGGTTTT-, was commonly found in the forward and/or the inverted orientation at or near the TATA boxes of the promoters of these genes and may have a role in regulating the coordinate production of the RP genes in plants.
10925785	Tnr1 (235 bp long) is a transposable element in rice. Polymerase chain reactions (PCRs) done with a primer(s) that hybridizes to terminal inverted repeat sequences (TIRs) of Tnr1 detected new Tnr1 members with one or two insertions in rice genomes. Six identified insertion sequences (Tnr4, Tnr5, Tnr11, Tnr12, Tnr13 and RIRE9) did not have extensive homology to known transposable elements, rather they had structural features characteristic of transposable elements. Tnr4 (1767 bp long) had imperfect 64-bp TIRs and appeared to generate duplication of a 9-bp sequence at the target site. However, the TIR sequences were not homologous to those of known transposable elements, indicative that Tnr4 is a new transposable element. Tnr5 (209 bp long) had imperfect 46-bp TIRs and appeared to generate duplication of sequence TTA like that of some elements of the Tourist family. Tnr11 (811 bp long) had 73-bp TIRs with significant homology to those of Tnr1 and Stowaway and appeared to generate duplication of sequence TA, indicative that Tnr11 is a transposable element of the Tnr1/Stowaway family. Tnr12 (2426 bp long) carried perfect 9-bp TIRs, which began with 5'-CACTA- -3' from both ends and appeared to generate duplication of a 3-bp target sequence, indicative that Tnr12 is a transposable element of the En/Spm family. Tnr13 (347 bp long) had 31-bp TIRs and appeared to generate duplication of an 8-bp target sequence. Two sequences, one the transposon-like element Crackle, had partial homology in the Tnr13 ends. All five insertions appear to be defective elements derived from autonomous ones encoding the transposase gene. All had characteristic tandem repeat sequences which may be recognized by transposase. The sixth insertion sequence, named RIRE9 (3852 bp long), which begins with 5'-TG- -3' and ends with 5'- -CA-3', appeared to generate duplication of a 5-bp target sequence. These and other structural features indicate that this insertion is a solo LTR (long terminal repeat) of a retrotransposon. The transposable elements described above could be identified as insertions into Tnr1, which do not deleteriously affect the growth of rice cells.
10925791	Cyclopoid copepods and mosquito larvae were surveyed in southwestern Louisiana rice fields. Almost every rice field had a natural population of Mesocyclops ruttneri, Acanthocylops vernalis, or Macrocyclops albidus. Judging from the abundance of pupae, 29% of the fields were responsible for virtually all Anopheles quadrimaculatus production, apparently because larval mortality suppressed production in the other fields. Mesocyclops ruttneri had the strongest negative association of naturally occurring copepod populations with An. quadrimaculatus larvae, though a few fields with M. ruttneri had substantial Anopheles production. Macrocyclops albidus, M. ruttneri, Mesocyclops edax, and Mesocyclops longisetus were introduced to experimental rice field plots. It took two months for the introduced copepods to build up their numbers; Anopheles larvae then disappeared from all treated plots while larvae continued to be present in the adjacent control field. Copepods were observed to kill the following number of first instar An. quadrimaculatus larvae in the laboratory: Mesocyclops ruttneri (36 larvae/day), Macrocyclops albidus (23 larvae/day), Mesocyclops longisetus (24 larvae/day), and Acanthocyclops vernalis (15 larvae/day). It is concluded that introducing select species of copepods and encouraging their populations offer possibilities for contributing to Anopheles control in rice fields.
10929125	A rice gene encoding a calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK), OsCDPK7, was induced by cold and salt stresses. To elucidate the physiological function of OsCDPK7, we generated transgenic rice plants with altered levels of the protein. The extent of tolerance to cold and salt/drought stresses of these plants correlated well with the level of OsCDPK7 expression. Therefore, OsCDPK7 was shown to be a positive regulator commonly involved in the tolerance to both stresses in rice. Over-expression of OsCDPK7 enhanced induction of some stress-responsive genes in response to salinity/drought, but not to cold. Thus, it was suggested that the downstream pathways leading to the cold and salt/drought tolerance are different from each other. It seems likely that at least two distinct pathways commonly use a single CDPK, maintaining the signalling specificity through unknown post-translational regulation mechanisms. These results demonstrate that simple manipulation of CDPK activity has great potential with regard to plant improvement.
10929134	The -197 bp promoter of the rice seed storage protein gene, GluB-1, is capable of conferring endosperm-specific gene expression. This proximal 5' flanking region contains four motifs, GCN4, AACA, ACGT and Prolamin-box, which are conserved in many seed storage protein genes. We previously showed that multiple copies of GCN4 conferred endosperm expression pattern when fused to the -46 core promoter of CaMV 35S. In this paper we demonstrate, using a similar approach, that tandem repeated copies of any of the other three motifs are unable to direct expression in seeds as well as other tissues of transgenic rice plants. Mutational analysis of individual motifs in the -197 bp promoter resulted in remarkable reductions in promoter activity. These results indicate that the GCN4 motif acts as an essential element determining endosperm-specific expression and that the AACA, ACGT and Prolamin-box are involved in quantitative regulation of the GluB-1 gene. A set of gain-of-function experiments using transgenic rice showed that either the Prolamin-box or AACA, although often coupled with GCN4 in many genes, is insufficient to form a functional promoter unit with GCN4, whereas a combination of GCN4, AACA and ACGT motifs was found sufficient to confer a detectable level of endosperm expression. Taken together, our results provide direct insight into the importance of combinatorial interplay between cis-elements in regulating the expression of seed storage protein genes.
10929141	Epidemiological studies have shown that food plays an important role in the transmission of Vibrio cholerae, and different foods have been incriminated in many epidemic outbreaks of cholera. Storing contaminated meals at ambient temperatures allows growth of V. cholerae. Some ingredients such as lime juice may inhibit the survival of V. cholerae in foods. During an epidemic caused by V. cholerae O1 in Guinea-Bissau in 1996, a case control study was conducted in the capital Bissau, the main affected region with an attack rate of 7.4%. Cases were hospitalized patients and controls were matched for area, gender and age. Lime juice in the sauce eaten with rice gave a strong protective effect (odds ratio [OR] = 0.31, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.17-0.56), and tomato sauce was also protective (OR = 0.36, 95% CI = 0.24-0.54). On the other hand, use of a bucket for storage of water in the house was associated with increased risk (OR = 4.4, CI = 2.21-8.74). Laboratory experiments to elucidate the inhibitory effect of different concentrations of lime juice on survival of V. cholerae in meals showed that V. cholerae thrives in rice with peanut sauce, but lime juice inhibited its growth. Since lime juice is a common ingredient of sauces, its use should be further encouraged to prevent foodborne transmission in the household during cholera outbreaks.
10929292	Mycotoxin-producing fungi were isolated from contaminated grains of rice, pulses and oilseeds sold in the local markets of Calcutta for human consumption. It was found that aflatoxin B1 was produced by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus, aflatoxin G1 by A. flavus, ochratoxin by Aspergillus ochraceous, sterigmatocystin by Aspergillus japonicus and citrinin by Penicillium citrinum. Aflatoxin B1 (333-10,416 micrograms/kg) was produced by Aspergillus spp. in rice, pulses and oilseeds.
10931195	Many plant aspartic proteinases (APs) are different from animal and microbial APs in that they contain a polypeptide insert, approximately 100 amino acids in length, in the C-terminal region. To interpret the significance of this insert, we constructed an expression system for rice AP oryzasin 1 by linking a pro-oryzasin 1 downstream of glutathione S-transferase (GST). GST-proOS1 expressed the highest degree of hemoglobin-hydrolytic activity when treated at pH 3.3 and incubated for 24 h at room temperature. We carried out a similar experiment using an insert-lacking proOS1 mutant, GST-DeltaproOS1, as the fusion protein, and found it to show similar activity. This result indicates that the insert is not involved in the production of AP activity. We then investigated the autolysis of the two proteins by Western blot analysis. GST-proOS1 was autolyzed into 67- and 64-kDa fragments, while GST-DeltaproOS1 autolyzed to 54- and 52-kDa products. GST-DeltaproOS1 clearly produced two molecular species early in the autolytic process, and not later than 3 h from the start, but no such clear result was observed in the case of GST-proOS1. This suggests that, although the presence of the plant AP-specific insert does not influence the enzyme activity by itself, it apparently has an effect on the autolysis of OS1.
1093170	The intracellular localization of phytochrome was seen in dark-grown oat (Avena sativa L., cv. Garry) and rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. unknown) shoots after various light treatments using an indirect peroxidase-antiperoxidase antibody labeling method. Phytochrome is generally distributed throughout the cytoplasm in cells of tissue that had not been exposed to light prior to fixation. Within, at most, 8 min after the onset of saturating red irradiation, phytochrome, now present in the far-red-absorbing form, becomes associated with discrete regions of the cell. These regions do not appear to be nuclei, plastids, or mitochondria. After phototransformation back to the red-absorbing form originally present, phytochrome slowly resumes its general distribution. It is possible that this discrete localization of the far-red-absorbing form of phytochrome represents a physiologically significant binding with a receptor site in the cell.
10931960	AvrXa7 is a member of the avrBs3 avirulence gene family, which encodes proteins targeted to plant cells by a type III secretion apparatus. AvrXa7, the product of avrXa7, is also a virulence factor in strain PXO86 of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Avirulence and virulence specificities are associated with the central repeat domain, which, in avrXa7, consists of 25.5 direct repeat units. Mutations in three C-terminal nuclear localization signal motifs eliminated avirulence and virulence activities in rice and severely reduced nuclear localization in a yeast assay system. Both pathogenicity functions and nuclear localization were restored on the addition of the sequence for the nuclear localization signal motif from SV40 T-antigen. The loss of avirulence activity because of mutations in the acidic transcriptional activation domain was restored by addition of the activation domain from the herpes simplex viral protein VP16. The activation domain was also required for virulence activity. However, the VP16 domain could not substitute for the endogenous domain in virulence assays. In gel shift assays, AvrXa7 bound double-stranded DNA with a preference for dA/dT rich sequences. The results indicate that products of the avrBs3-related genes are virulence factors targeted to host cell nuclei and have the potential to interact with the host DNA and transcriptional machinery as part of their mode of action. The results also suggest that the host defensive recognition mechanisms are targeted to the virulence factor site of action.
10932498	A total of 15 infants aged between 4-12 months with sleeping difficulty were enrolled in the study. All participants were given a test follow-on formula (cow's milk based), with added rice starch. The test formula was advised to be given at night-time for a 7-day period. Sleeping patterns were recorded 2 days prior to the study and during the 7-day study period. It was shown than 11 out of 15 cases (73.3%) had satisfactory results. Two cases (13.3%) were withdrawn from the study by their parents due to vomiting after taking the formula. We found that both cases developed concomitant respiratory tract infection one day after starting the study, and 2 cases (13.3%) were lost to follow-up. In conclusion, the majority of cases showed satisfactory results in terms of night sleeping pattern after switching to the rice starch added follow--on formula.
10933842	Yarrowia lipolytica is a potentially useful host for heterologous protein production. To develop an efficient culture method for high cell density cultivation and heterologous gene expression of Y. lipolytica, the effects of medium components and their concentrations on the growth of Y. lipolytica have been investigated. Addition of yeast extract to the culture media was found to significantly reduce the long lag phase encountered when Y. lipolytica was cultivated in synthetic culture media containing high concentrations of glycerol. Therefore, by enriching with 0.3% yeast extract the synthetic culture medium containing 15% glycerol, we could cultivate Y. lipolytica up to 83 g/L dry cell weight in a batch culture. Furthermore, over 100 g/L and 88 units/mL of rice alpha-amylase activity were obtained in less than 50 h with a one-step feeding process in which a recombinant Y. lipolytica expressing rice alpha-amylase was cultivated in the 10% glycerol medium enriched with 0.3% yeast extract and fed only once with the concentrated feeding medium (60% glycerol). The easy cultivation of recombinant Y. lipolytica to a high cell density may strengthen its position as a host for heterologous protein production.
10935899	The objective of the study was to test the tolerance of a rice-based oral rehydration formula when fed to calves. Six healthy Holstein calves, 1 week of age, were fed the formula instead of milk replacer for 3 days. Pre- and posttreatment results of clinical examination and laboratory parameters were compared. Vital signs, attitude, appetite, clinical hydration status, urine specific gravity, and most routine serum biochemistry test results did not vary and remained within the normal range. Five of the 6 calves developed diarrhea when fed the rice-based formula, which was accompanied by a reduction in fecal pH and presence of reducing sugars in the feces. This effect was reversed when calves were returned to the milk replacer diet at the end of the study. Diarrhea was accompanied by increased water consumption, which allowed the calves to maintain normal hydration status. These results suggest that calves are unable to properly digest the rice-derived carbohydrate, and this type of formula is not recommended for oral rehydration of calves.
10936527	We have isolated two rice polyubiquitin genes designated as RUBQ1 and RUBQ2 by screening a Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) genomic library with a 32P-labeled ubiquitin cDNA probe. DNA sequence data revealed that both genes contained an open reading frame encoding a hexameric precursor ubiquitin and an intron immediate upstream of the initiation codon. The deduced amino acid sequences of both genes were identical to each other and to other plant ubiquitin sequences. Several putative regulatory elements such as enhancer core and heat shock consensus sequences were found in the 5'-upstream regions of both genes. Northern blot analyses using the 3'-untranslated region as gene specific probes showed that both genes were actively expressed in all rice plant tissues tested. Differential expression was observed in roots where RUBQ2 appeared to be predominantly expressed. Chimeric genes containing the 5'-upstream region including the intron of RUBQ1 or RUBQ2 and the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) coding region were constructed and transferred into rice suspension cells via particle bombardment. GUS activity from constructs containing RUBQ1 and RUBQ2 promoters in rice suspension cells was ten to 15-fold greater than those using the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S (CaMV 35S) promoter, and two to threefold greater than constructs with the maize polyubiquitin Ubi1 promoter. The results demonstrate the potential usefulness of the two rice polyubiquitin promoters in rice or other monocot transformation systems.
10937693	To isolate the genes involved in the response of graminaceous plants to Fe-deficient stress, a protein induced by Fe-deficiency treatment was isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) roots. Based on the partial amino acid sequence of this protein, a cDNA (HvAPT1) encoding adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APRT: EC 2.4.2.7) was cloned from a cDNA library prepared from Fe-deficient barley roots. Southern analysis suggested that there were at least two genes encoding APRT in barley. Fe deficiency increased HvAPT1 expression in barley roots and resupplying Fe to the Fe-deficient plants rapidly negated the increase in HvAPT1 mRNA. Analysis of localization of HvAPT1-sGFP fusion proteins in tobacco BY-2 cells indicated that the protein from HvAPT1 was localized in the cytoplasm of cells. Consistent with the results of Northern analysis, the enzymatic activity of APRT in barley roots was remarkably increased by Fe deficiency. This induction of APRT activity by Fe deficiency was also observed in roots of other graminaceous plants such as rye, maize, and rice. In contrast, the induction was not observed to occur in the roots of a non-graminaceous plant, tobacco. Graminaceous plants generally synthesize the mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs) in roots under Fe-deficient conditions. In this paper, a possible role of HvAPT1 in the biosynthesis of MAs related to adenine salvage in the methionine cycle is discussed.
10938371	The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) mediates many vital processes in plant growth and development, including seed dormancy, cell division, water use efficiency, and adaptation to drought, salinity, chilling, pathogen attack, and UV light. Our understanding of ABA signal transduction is fragmentary and would benefit from specific and facile probes of the process. Protoplasts from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv IR54) embryonic suspension cultures cotransformed with effector plasmids encoding the maize (Zea mays) VIVIPAROUS1 cDNA and/or the Arabidopsis dominant negative mutant (abi1-1) ABA-insensitive cDNA demonstrated genetic interactions of VIVIPAROUS1 and abi1-1 in transactivation of the ABA-inducible HVA1 promoter from barley (Hordeum vulgare), suggesting the mechanisms of these effectors are conserved among monocots and dicots. Trivalent ions have been shown to act as an effector of gene expression in plants and animals, although the mechanism of action is unknown. We show in two complementary transient ABA-inducible gene expression assays (beta-glucuronidase and luciferase enzymatic activities and quantitative flow cytometry of green fluorescent protein) that trivalent ions specifically interact with an ABI1-dependent ABA-signaling pathway leading to gene expression. Trivalent ions mimic ABA effects on gene expression and may be a useful tool to study ABA signaling.
10938800	Secondary salinization and its relationship to irrigation are strong incentives to improve the tolerance of crops to salinity and to drought. Achieving this through the pyramiding of physiological traits (phenotypic selection without knowledge of genotype) is feasible. However, wide application of this approach is limited by the practicalities of assessing not only the parents, but also large numbers of individuals and families in segregating generations. Genotypic information is required in the form of markers for any quantitative trait loci involved (marker-assisted selection) or of direct knowledge of the genes. In the absence of adequate candidate genes for salt tolerance, a quantitative trait locus/marker-assisted selection approach has been used here. Putative markers for ion transport and selectivity, identified from analysis of amplified fragment length polymorphism, had been discovered within a custom-made mapping population of rice. Here it is reported that none of these markers showed any association with similar traits in a closely related population of recombinant inbred lines or in selections of a cultivar. Whilst markers will be of value in using lite lines from the mapping population in backcrossing, this has to be considered alongside the effort required to develop and map any given population. This result cautions against any expectation of a general applicability of markers for physiological traits. It is concluded that direct knowledge of the genes involved is needed. This cannot be achieved at present by positional cloning. The elucidation of candidate genes is required. Here the problem lies not in the analysis of gene expression but in devising protocols in which only those genes of interest are differentially affected by the experimental treatments.
10938827	Ammonium-induced changes in the cytoplasmic and vacuolar pH values of excised maize (Zea mays L.) root tips, measured by in vivo 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, were correlated with the ammonium content of the tissue, determined by 14N NMR. Calculations based on these measurements indicated that the pH changes observed during exposure to 10 mM ammonium for 1 h at pH 9.0, and in the recovery following the removal of the external ammonium supply, were largely determined by the influx and efflux of the weak base NH3. Carboxylate synthesis, detected by both in vivo 13C NMR and the incorporation of [14C]bicarbonate, was stimulated by the ammonium-induced alkalinization of the root tips, but the contribution that this proton-generating process made to pH regulation during and after the ammonium treatment was quantitatively insignificant. Similarly, ammonium assimilation, which was shown to occur via the proton-generating glutamine synthetase/glutamate synthase pathway using in vivo 15N NMR, was also quantitatively insignificant in comparison with the large changes in ammonium content that occurred during the ammonium treatment and subsequent recovery. The results are discussed in relation to several recent studies in which ammonium was used to perturb intracellular pH values, and it is argued (i) that a new method for probing the subcellular compartmentation of amino acids, based on an ammonium-induced alkalinization of the cytoplasm may be difficult to implement in dense heterogeneous tissues; and (ii) that observations on the apparently proton-consuming effect of ammonium assimilation in rice root hairs may actually reflect unusually rapid assimilation.
10938846	Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) efficiency for CO2-saturated photosynthesis was examined in leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.). The amount of Rubisco in a leaf was calculated to be 30-55% in excess for the light-saturated rate of photosynthesis at 100 Pa CO2. Long-term exposure to CO2 enrichment decreased the amount of Rubisco protein. However, N was not reallocated from decreased Rubisco to other components limiting photosynthesis, and the decrease in Rubisco was simply due to a decrease in total leaf-N content by CO2 enrichment. Thus, rice plants did not optimize N allocation into Rubisco at elevated CO2. Transgenic rice plants with decreased Rubisco were obtained by transformation with the rbcS antisense gene. The transformant with 65% wild-type Rubisco was selected as a plant with optimal Rubisco content for CO2-saturated photosynthesis at the level of a single leaf. This selected transgenic plant had 20% lower rates of photosynthesis at normal CO2 (36 Pa), but 5-15% higher rates of photosynthesis at elevated CO2 (100 Pa) for a given leaf N content. However, such transgenic plants did not necessarily show greater production of biomass even under conditions of CO2 enrichment. Although they had a higher N-use efficiency for plant growth under such conditions during the middle stage of growth, the growth rate was lower during the early stage of growth. Thus, improvement of N-use efficiency by a single leaf did not necessarily lead to greater production of biomass by the whole plant.
10938855	The prospects for genetic manipulation of photosynthesis are assessed with an emphasis on the biochemical and morphological aspects of light capture. The connection between different parts of the photosynthetic process is considered together with the influence of environmental factors, development and acclimation, and metabolic regulation. The sites of real and potential photosynthetic losses are identified, using tropical rice as a case study. The important interaction between photosynthetic capacity, acclimation to the light environment, nitrogen accumulation and canopy architecture are discussed. The possibility of genetic intervention to increase both biomass accumulation and improve nitrogen economy simultaneously are considered. Finally, the numerous procedures for genetic manipulation of light harvesting are also discussed, with a view of improving radiation-use efficiency in crops.
10938871	To investigate regulation of anaerobic carbohydrate catabolism in anoxia-tolerant plant tissue, rate of alcoholic fermentation and maximum catalytic activities of four key enzymes were assessed in coleoptiles of two rice cultivars that differ in tolerance to anoxia. The enzymes were ATP-dependent phosphofructokinase (PFK), pyrophosphate-dependent phosphofructokinase (PFP), pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC), and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). During anoxia, rates of coleoptile elongation and ethanol synthesis were faster in the more tolerant variety Calrose than in IR22. Calrose coleoptiles, in contrast to IR22, also showed a sustained Pasteur effect, with the estimated rate of glycolysis during anoxia being 1.4-1.7-fold faster than that of aerobic coleoptiles. In Calrose after 5 d anoxia, maximum catalytic activities of crude enzyme extracts were (in mumol substrate g-1 fresh weight min.-1) 170-240 for ADH, 4-6 for PDC and PFP and 0.4-0.7 for PFK. During anoxia, activity per coleoptile of all four enzymes increased 3-5.5-fold, suggesting that PFK, and PFP, like PDC and ADH, are synthesised in anoxic rice coleoptiles. Enzyme activities, on a fresh weight basis, were lower in IR22 than in Calrose. In vivo activities of PDC and PFK in anoxic coleoptiles from both cultivars were calculated using in vitro activities, estimated substrate levels, cytoplasmic pH, and S0.5 (the substrate level at which 0.5Vmax is reached, without inferring Michaelis-Menten kinetics). Data indicated that potential carbon flux through PFK, rather than through PDC, more closely approximated rates of alcoholic fermentation. That PFK is an important site of regulation was supported further for Calrose coleoptiles by a decrease in the concentration of its substrate pool (F-6-P + G-6-P) following the onset of anoxia. By contrast, in IR22, there was little evidence for control by PFK, consistent with recent evidence that suggests substrate supply limits alcoholic fermentation in this cultivar.
10939258	Many plant mutants develop spontaneous lesions that resemble disease symptoms in the absence of pathogen attack. In several pathosystems, lesion mimic mutations have been shown to be involved in programmed cell death, which in some instances leads to enhanced disease resistance to multiple pathogens. We investigated the relationship between spontaneous cell death and disease resistance in rice with nine mutants with a range of lesion mimic phenotypes. All nine mutations are controlled by recessive genes and some of these mutants have stunted growth and other abnormal characteristics. The lesion mimics that appeared on the leaves of these mutants were caused by cell death as measured by trypan blue staining. Activation of six defense-related genes was observed in most of the mutants when the mimic lesions developed. Four mutants exhibited significant enhanced resistance to rice blast. One of the mutants, spl11, confers non-race-specific resistance not only to blast but also to bacterial blight. The level of resistance in the spl11 mutant to the two pathogens correlates with the defense-related gene expression and lesion development on the leaves. The results suggest that some lesion mimic mutations in rice may be involved in disease resistance, and cloning of these genes may provide a clue to developing broad-spectrum resistance to diverse pathogens.
10939463	Exogenously applied jasmonic acid (JA) was used to study changes in protein patterns in rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedling tissues, to classify these changes, and to assign a role for these changes, in order to define the role of JA in the rice self-defense mechanism. High resolution two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic analysis revealed induction of new proteins in both leaf and stem tissues after JA treatment, with the major protein spots further analyzed through N-terminal and internal amino acid sequencing, purification, antibody production, and immunoblot analysis. JA treatment results in necrosis in these tissues, which is accompanied by drastic reductions in ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) subunits, and was confirmed using immunoblotting. Induction of novel proteins was found particularly in the stem tissues, including a new basic 28 kDa Bowman-Birk proteinase inhibitor protein (BBPIN; jasmonate-induced stem protein, JISP 6), and acidic 17 kDa pathogenesis-related class 1 protein (PR-1, JISP 9). This induction of proteins was blocked by a protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX) indicating de novo protein synthesis. Kinetin (KIN), a cytokinin and free radical scavenger reversed RuBisCO decreases, but not induction of proteins. Immunoblot analysis using antibodies generated against these purified proteins revealed a tissue-specific expression pattern and time-dependent induction after JA treatment. Our results indicate that jasmonate affects defense-related gene expression in rice seedlings, as evidenced by de novo synthesis of novel proteins with potential roles in plant defense.
10939848	A method for simultaneous determination of 17 organochlorine and 9 pyrethroid pesticides in agricultural products by capillary GC with ECD detection was studies. The samples were extracted with acetone under acidic conditions followed by Florisil column clean-up and then injected into a GC-ECD. The organochlorine pesticides used in this study included unstable captan and captafol in the homogenized preparations of fruits and vegetables. Captan and captafol were also found to decompose in rice and wheat samples when the samples were allowed to stand after the addition of water. Addition of phosphoric acid to the samples was effective in preventing the decomposition of captan and captafol. Recovery of the pesticides investigated in this study was not decreased by the addition of phosphoric acid. Addition of phosphoric acid was also effective in removing interfering substances from onion extract. Recovery of organochlorine and pyrethroid pesticides from samples spiked at levels of 0.05-0.25 ppm by the proposed method was 51.4-100.8% for rice and wheat and 60.1-119.0% for vegetables.
10940020	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice. Spontaneous mutants which are deficient for virulence and extracellular polysaccharide (Eps) production accumulate in large numbers in stationary-phase cultures of this bacterium, a phenomenon which we have called stationary-phase variation. A clone (pSD1) carrying the Eps biosynthetic gene (gum) cluster of X. oryzae pv. oryzae restored Eps production and virulence to several spv (for stationary-phase variation) mutants. Data from localized recombination analysis, Southern hybridization, PCR amplification, and sequence analysis showed that the mutations are due to insertion of either one of two novel endogenous insertion sequence (IS) elements, namely, ISXo1 and ISXo2, into gumM, the last gene of the gum gene cluster. The results of Southern analysis indicate the presence of multiple copies of both IS elements in the genome of X. oryzae pv. oryzae. These results demonstrate the role of IS elements in stationary-phase variation in X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
10940465	The genetic and agronomic consequences of transferring glufosinate (Liberty) herbicide resistance from transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) lines to the noxious weed red rice (Oryza sativa L.) were evaluated under field conditions. Replicated field trials in Louisiana (LA) and Arkansas (AR) were conducted in 1997 to evaluate ten vegetative and reproductive traits of eight F(2) populations produced from controlled crosses of two transgenic, glufosinate-resistant rice lines and four red rice biotypes. Plant vigor and plant density at both locations were similar among populations derived from either transgenic or non-transgenic parents. Significant differences in plant height and maturity were observed among LA populations produced from transgenic lines when compared to corresponding populations developed from non-transgenic material. However, values for these traits were not greater than those detected in the red rice biotypes. Seed dormancy and seed production were not significantly different at either location among transgenic and non-transgenic populations. Dominant Mendelian segregation of glufosinate resistance was detected in 40% of the populations evaluated. Results of this study indicated that those populations segregating for glufosinate resistance responded in a location-specific manner with respect to life history and fecundity traits.
10943958	In a randomized controlled clinical trial, the efficacy of a low-sodium low-glucose oral rehydration solution (ORS) and a low-sodium rice-based ORS was compared with standard WHO glucose ORS in the treatment of severe cholera in children aged 2-10y. In total, 120 children were evaluated for the study, of whom 58 patients were positive for Vibrio cholerae and were included in the study. Of these 58 cases, 19 received rice-based hypo-osmolar ORS, 20 received WHO-ORS and 19 received glucose-based hypo-osmolar ORS. The clinical characteristics (age, preadmission duration of diarrhoea, frequency of stool before admission, incidence of vomiting, body weight and volume of initial fluid requirement) were comparable in the three treatment groups. All patients received tetracycline in a dose of 50 mg/kg/d of body weight in 4 divided doses for 3 d. Patients who received rice-based hypo-osmolar ORS had subsequently reduced (p < 0.05) stool output, ORS consumption and diarrhoea duration than the patients who received either WHO-ORS or glucose-based hypo-osmolar ORS.
10943959	Mothers in rural Bangladesh were trained to prepare and use either Rice-ORS (R-ORS) or Glucose-ORS (G-ORS) solutions to treat children with diarrhoea. Families were provided with either G-ORS or R-ORS of the same electrolyte composition through a depot holder. Subsequently, random samples of solutions actually used for treatment by the mothers were collected from homes by field workers. A total of 227 R-ORS and 239 G-ORS samples were analysed. The sodium concentration in about 90% of the samples had a safe range (50-120 mmol/l). Only 4% of R-ORS solutions were above 120 mmol/l in sodium concentration, while 12% of G-ORS solutions exceeded these limits (p < 0.0025). R-ORS (after acid hydrolysis) provided significantly higher glucose (257 +/- 42 mmol/l) for active but safe absorption compared to G-ORS (115 +/- 39 mmol/l). To make R-ORS liquid enough to drink requires addition of sufficient water, preventing the risk of higher sodium concentration. Unlike rice starch, glucose is a highly soluble substance. It is thus possible to prepare a drinkable solution containing dangerously high concentrations of both sodium and glucose, but this can be minimized by more intensive training of the mothers.
10945049	Potential Anopheles gambiae s.s. breeding sites were sampled in rural sites in the Tanga region of Tanzania. Sites containing the largest numbers of An. gambiae larvae were small, shaded pools and rice fields. Water samples were collected from the larval sites and these, together with ether extracts of the water samples, were active in electro-antennogram (EAG) studies with female mosquitoes from a laboratory colony of Anopheles (Cellia) gambiae KWA. EAG response thresholds varied for 10 randomly selected water samples, from 0.01%-100% dilution for the whole water samples and from 0.001%-1.0% dilution for the ether extracts. Potential chemical components of the water samples were also electrophysiologically active with female An. gambiae antennae; thresholds varied from 1 ng (3-methylindole and indole) to 10 micrograms (m-cresol and 4-methylcyclohexanol).
10945217	The mRNAs that encode the prolamine storage proteins in rice (Oryza sativa L.) endosperm cells are enriched on the surface of the prolamine protein bodies (PBs), a subcellular structure consisting of a prolamine intracisternal granule surrounded by rough endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Previous biochemical studies (D.G. Muench et al., 1998, Plant Physiol. 116: 559-569) have shown that prolamine mRNAs may be anchored to the PB surface via the cytoskeleton. To better understand the mechanism and role of mRNA localization in rice endosperm cells, we studied the subcellular development of prolamine PBs and their relationship with the cytoskeleton in rice endosperm cells. Confocal microscopy of endosperm cells showed that, unlike the glutelin PBs, the developing prolamine PBs are not randomly distributed within the cell, but instead are often enriched in the cortical region of the cell only a few micrometers beneath the plasma membrane. In addition, the peripheral prolamine PBs are closely associated with the cortical microtubule and actin filament networks. The cortical enrichment of rice prolamine protein bodies represents a unique example of endoplasmic reticulum subdomain localization in plant cells. The interaction of this endoplasmic reticulum subdomain with the cytoskeleton provides new insights on the possible mechanism and role of mRNA localization in plants.
10945221	NADP-dependent malic enzyme (NADP-ME) is a major decarboxylating enzyme in NADP-ME-type C4 species such as maize and Flaveria. In this study, chloroplastic NADP-ME was transferred to rice (Oryza sativa L.) using a chimeric gene composed of maize NADP-ME cDNA under the control of rice light-harvesting chlorophyll-a/b-binding protein (Cab) promoter. There was a 20- to 70-fold increase in the NADP-ME activity in leaves of transgenic rice compared to that in wild-type rice plants. Immunocytochemical studies by electron microscopy showed that maize NADP-ME was mostly localized in chloroplasts in transgenic rice plants, and that the chloroplasts were agranal without thylakoid stacking. Chlorophyll content and photosystem II activity were inversely correlated with the level of NADP-ME activity. These results suggest that aberrant chloroplasts in transgenic plants may be caused by excessive NADP-ME activity. Based on these results and the known fact that only bundle sheath cells of NADP-ME species, among all three C4 subgroups, have agranal chloroplasts, we postulate that a high level of chloroplastic NADP-ME activity could strongly affect the development of chloroplasts.
10945336	Cerebrosides A and C, compounds categorized as glycosphingolipids, were isolated in our previous study from the rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea) as novel elicitors which induce the synthesis of rice phytoalexins. In this paper, these cerebroside elicitors showed phytoalexin-inducing activity when applied to plants by spray treatment and also induced the expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins in rice leaves. This elicitor activity of the cerebrosides showed the structural specificity as that for the induction of phytoalexins. Ceramides prepared from the cerebrosides by removal of glucose also showed the elicitor activity even in lower level compared to the cerebrosides. In field experiments, the cerebroside elicitors effectively protected rice plants against the rice blast fungus, an economically devastating agent of disease of rice in Japan. The cerebrosides elicitors protected rice plants from other disease as well and were found to occur in a wide range of different phytopathogens, indicating that cerebrosides function as general elicitors in a wide variety of rice-pathogen interactions.
10945340	The floral morphology of grass species is distinct from that of typical dicot plants. In order to achieve a better understanding of the molecular basis for this diversion, we isolated RAP1A, RAP1B and RAG, putative rice orthologs for the Arabidopsis class A gene APETALA1 (AP1) and class C gene AGAMOUS (AG). The expression patterns of RAP1A, RAG and OsMADS2, a rice ortholog of the class B gene, were analyzed by in situ hybridization. RAP1A mRNA was expressed in the apical region of the floral meristem at an early stage of spikelet development, and then its expression was localized in developing lemma, palea and lodicules. The OsMADS2 transcript was first observed in the region where stamen primordia are formed. Soon after, OsMADS2 mRNA appeared in the lodicule primordia as well as the stamen primordia, and this RNA accumulation pattern persisted until late stages of floral development. The expression of RAG was observed in stamens and pistils of wild-type young spikelets. These RNA accumulation patterns are mostly similar to those of Arabidopsis class A, B, C genes, supporting the notion that the ABC model may be extended to rice.
10945343	Two kinds of T-DNA constructs, I-RS/dAc-I-RS and Hm(R)Ds, carrying a non-autonomous transposable element of Ac of maize were introduced into rice plants by Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer. Six transgenic rice plants identified as containing a single copy of the element were crossed with two transgenic rice plants carrying a gene for Ac transposase under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. In F2 progenies, excision of the element was detected by PCR analysis and re-integration of the element was investigated by Southern blot analysis. The frequency of the excision of the element was found to vary from 0 to 70% depending on the crossing combination. The frequency of the number of individual transposition events out of the total number of F2 plants with germinal excision was 44% in one crossing combination and 38% in the other. In the most efficient case, 10 plants with independent transposition were obtained out of the 49 F2 plants tested. Linkage analysis of the empty donor site and the transposed Ds-insertion site in F3 plants demonstrated that one of five Ds-insertion sites was not linked to the empty donor site. The transgenic rice obtained in this study can be used for functional genomics of rice.
10945344	Protoporphyrinogen oxidase (Protox), the penultimate step enzyme of the branch point for the biosynthetic pathway of Chl and hemes, is the target site of action of diphenyl ether (DPE) herbicides. However, Bacillus subtilis Protox is known to be resistant to the herbicides. In order to develop the herbicide-resistant plants, the transgenic rice plants were generated via expression of B. subtilis Protox gene under ubiquitin promoter targeted to the cytoplasm or to the plastid using Agrobacterium-mediated gene transformation. The integration and expression of the transgene were investigated at T0 generation by DNA and RNA blots. Most transgenic rice plants revealed one copy transgene insertion into the rice genome, but some with 3 copies. The expression levels of B. subtilis Protox mRNA appeared to correlate with the copy number. Furthermore, the plastidal transgenic lines exhibited much higher expression of the Protox mRNA than the cytoplasmic transgenic lines. The transgenic plants expressing the B. subtilis Protox gene at T0 generation were found to be resistant to oxyfluorfen when judged by cellular damage with respect to cellular leakage, Chl loss, and lipid peroxidation. The transgenic rice plants targeted to the plastid exhibited higher resistance to the herbicide than the transgenic plants targeted to the cytoplasm. In addition, possible resistance mechanisms in the transgenic plants to DPE herbicides are discussed.
10945345	A cDNA encoding a proline (Pro) transporter (ProT) was isolated and characterized from a cDNA library prepared from 14-d-old seedlings of Oryza sativa cv. Akibare. The deduced amino acid sequence of the rice ProT protein (OsProT) had 68.8% homology to the ProT protein 1 from Arabidopsis thaliana and 59.6% homology to that from Lycopersicon esculentum. Northern blot analysis revealed that the gene for OsProT (OsProT) was expressed in all organs examined, comparatively strongly in leaf sheath and stem. Salt treatment did not induce expression of OsProT but strongly induced expression of the gene for delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), a key enzyme in Pro biosynthesis. Southern blot analysis revealed that OsProT has a gene family. OsProT specifically transported L-Pro in a transport assay using Xenopus laevis oocytes.
10945348	We examined a novel rice mutant, Fukei 71 (Oryza sativa L.), for alterations in the levels of hydroxycinnamoyl esters that are linked to cell wall polysaccharides and lignin units. In this mutant, a recessive mutation at a single locus caused the collapse of parenchyma cells in the internodes. Light microscopy revealed that the abnormal walls of internode parenchyma cells of Fukei 71 were stained by the Mule reaction, which is specific for syringyl units in phenolic compounds. These walls were not stained by Wiesner's reagent (phloroglucinol-HCl), which reacts cinnamaldehyde in lignin. Levels of p-coumaric acid (PCA) and ferulic acid (FA) were apparently elevated in the abnormal tissue of the mutant. Western blotting analysis with antibodies specific for phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) revealed higher levels of PAL in the abnormal parenchyma tissue of Fukei 71 than in the parenchyma tissue of the parent cultivar Fujiminori. These results and the observation that PAL was produced at a greatly elevated level indicated that the phenylpropanoid pathway that leads to the biosynthesis of polysaccharide-linked FA and PCA was abnormally activated in the irregularly shaped and collapsed internode parenchyma cells, in which the biosynthesis of lignin is normally repressed.
10945352	A rapid and efficient system for Agrobacterium infection-mediated transient gene expression in rice has been developed. Using this system, transient expression of preprophytosulfokine, a precursor of phytosulfokine-a, encoded by OsPSK gene was analyzed. The results suggest that the Agrobacterium infection-mediated transient gene expression system is as efficient in rice Oc cells as in tobacco BY-2 cells and might be useful for rapid analysis not only of foreign gene expression, but also of antisense gene suppression.
10946450
10948363	The flight potential of Nephotettix virescens (Distant), the most important vector of rice tungro virus disease, was assessed using tethered flight techniques. Most individuals tested were not willing to fly in response to stimulation, or flew for very short times. A small proportion of leafhoppers flew for long periods and one female flew for almost 7 h, indicating the potential for long distance dispersal of insects and inoculum. Few individuals flew before four days of age and thereafter flight profiles were similar for insects aged between four and 12 days. Mature females were more flight willing when kept as adults in mixed groups with males than when caged separately. There was no consistent effect on flight performance when insects were reared on rice varieties with different levels of leafhopper resistance. The flight activity of N. virescens was greater when leafhoppers were reared on mature, compared with young, rice plants. Leafhoppers reared through one generation on tungro-diseased rice plants were less willing to fly than individuals maintained on healthy plants of the same age and variety, whereas those tested after a 24-h access period to tungro-diseased plants were more flight-willing. The results are discussed in relation to the spread of tungro and to management interventions for the control of the disease.
10948378
10948991	The two adjacent genes of coat protein 1 and 2 of rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) were amplified from total RNA extracts of serologically indistinguishable field isolates from the Philippines and Indonesia, using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Digestion with HindIII and BstYI restriction endonucleases differentiated the amplified DNA products into eight distinct coat protein genotypes. These genotypes were then used as indicators of virus diversity in the field. Inter- and intra-site diversities were determined over three cropping seasons. At each of the sites surveyed, one or two main genotypes prevailed together with other related minor or mixed genotypes that did not replace the main genotype over the sampling time. The cluster of genotypes found at the Philippines sites was significantly different from the one at the Indonesia sites, suggesting geographic isolation for virus populations. Phylogenetic studies based on the nucleotide sequences of 38 selected isolates confirm the spatial distribution of RTSV virus populations but show that gene flow may occur between populations. Under the present conditions, rice varieties do not seem to exert selective pressure on the virus populations. Based on the selective constraints in the coat protein amino acid sequences and the virus genetic composition per site, a negative selection model followed by random-sampling events due to vector transmissions is proposed to explain the inter-site diversity observed.
10949264
10949374	The Rirlb gene of rice (Oryza sativa) is one of a set of putative defense genes whose transcripts accumulate upon inoculation of rice with the non-host pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. It belongs to a family of genes encoding small extracellular proteins so far only identified in cereals. To assess the function of the Rirlb gene in rice blast resistance, it was placed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter and transferred into rice plants of the japonica variety Taipei 309 by biolistic transformation of immature embryos. Two out of 12 hygromycin-resistant regenerated plants (OE1 and OE3) were fertile. DNA gel blot analysis suggested that these two T0 plants were independent transformants, each of which had stably incorporated one complete copy of the transgene into the genome. In addition, the OE1 plant appeared also a contain a rearranged copy or incomplete copy. T1 plants homozygous for the transgene were identified by DNA gel blot analysis of individual T2 progeny and further propagated. Expression analysis of the transgene showed that the transgene was active both in T1 plants and homozygous decendants. Challenge inoculation of homozygous transgenic plants with Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, revealed that both independent transgenic lines were more resistant than the untransformed wild type, suggesting that over-expression of the Rirlb gene confers partial resistance against this important pathogen.
10949375	Two transgenic callus lines of rice, stably expressing a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene, were supertransformed with a set of constructs designed to silence the resident GUS gene. An inverted-repeat (i/r) GUS construct, designed to produce mRNA with self-complementarity, was much more effective than simple sense and antisense constructs at inducing silencing. Supertransforming rice calluses with a direct-repeat (d/r) construct, although not as effective as those with the i/r construct, was also substantially more effective in silencing the resident GUS gene than the simple sense and antisense constructs. DNA hybridisation analyses revealed that every callus line supertransformed with either simple sense or antisense constructs, and subsequently showing GUS silencing, had the silence-inducing transgenes integrated into the plant genome in inverted-repeat configurations. The silenced lines containing i/r and d/r constructs did not necessarily have inverted-repeat T-DNA insertions. There was significant methylation of the GUS sequences in most of the silenced lines but not in the unsilenced lines. However, demethylation treatment of silenced lines with 5-azacytidine did not reverse the post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) of GUS. Whereas the levels of RNA specific to the resident GUS gene were uniformly low in the silenced lines, RNA specific to the inducer transgenes accumulated to a substantial level, and the majority of the i/r RNA was unpolyadenylated. Altogether, these results suggest that both sense- and antisense-mediated gene suppression share a similar molecular basis, that unpolyadenylated RNA plays an important role in PTGS, and that methylation is not essential for PTGS.
10949377	The potential role of photorespiration in the protection against salt stress was examined with transgenic rice plants. Oryza sativa L. cv. Kinuhikari was transformed with a chloroplastic glutamine synthetase (GS2) gene from rice. Each transgenic rice plant line showed a different accumulation level of GS2. A transgenic plant line, G39-2, which accumulated about 1.5-fold more GS2 than the control plant, had an increased photorespiration capacity. In another line, G241-12, GS2 was almost lost and photorespiration activity could not be detected. Fluorescence quenching analysis revealed that photorespiration could prevent the over-reduction of electron transport systems. When exposed to 150 mM NaCl for 2 weeks, the control rice plants completely lost photosystem II activity, but G39-2 plants retained more than 90% activity after the 2-week treatment, whereas G241-12 plants lost these activities within one week. In the presence of isonicotinic acid hydrazide, an inhibitor of photorespiration, G39-2 showed the same salt tolerance as the control plants. The intracellular contents of NH4+ and Na+ in the stressed plants correlated well with the levels of GS2. Thus, the enhancement of photorespiration conferred resistance to salt in rice plants. Preliminary results suggest chilling tolerance in the transformant.
10949951	The nucleotide sequence of genome segment S11 of rice gall dwarf virus (RGDV), a member of Phytoreovirus, was determined. The segment encodes a putative protein of 40 kDa that exhibits approximately 37% homology at the amino acid level to the nonstructural proteins Pns10 of rice dwarf and wound tumor viruses, which are other members of Phytoreovirus. A band of a protein with an apparent molecular mass of 40 kDa was specifically detected in an analysis of cells transfected with S11 cDNA. An antiserum raised against this protein reacted with a protein of approximately 40kDa after fractionation by SDS-PAGE of materials prepared from infected plants and from viruliferous vector insects. However, the antiserum did not react with purified viral proteins. These results suggest that S11 encodes a nonstructural protein of RGDV. This protein was named Pns11.
10951988	To determine whether a nonionic detergent (Triton WR 1339) can be used in cats to assess hepatic secretion of triglyceride. 28 healthy cats. Triton WR 1339 was administered IV according to the following schedule: 5, 50, 150, and 250 mg/kg of body weight. Control cats did not receive an injection or received 0.9% NaCl or PBS solutions at the same osmolarity and volume as the 250 mg/kg group. Blood samples were collected throughout the 48-hour period after administration for determination of triglyceride and cholesterol concentrations and for RBC morphology and osmotic fragility studies. Administration of Triton WR 1339 at 150 and 250 mg/kg caused profound hypertriglyceridemia. Triglyceride concentrations increased in a curvilinear fashion for the first 2 hours and remained increased for approximately 24 hours. Area under the time-concentration curve for triglyceride at 5 hours differed significantly among groups. At 12 and 24 hours, cholesterol was significantly higher in cats receiving 250 mg/kg. The most dramatic changes in osmotic fragility and RBC morphology were in cats receiving 250 mg/kg; 1 of these cats developed severe icterus and died 5 days later. Feeding rice and casein before administering Triton WR 1339 at 150 mg/kg did not appear to affect the hypertriglyceridemia response. Triton WR 1339 can be administered IV to cats at a rate of 150 mg/kg to assess hepatic triglyceride secretion, although some cats may have increased RBC osmotic fragility. Higher dosages caused substantial adverse effects, whereas lower dosages did not alter plasma triglyceride concentration.
10954603	In this work, 710 CDSs corresponding to over 290 000 codons equally distributed between Brassica napus, Arabidopsis thaliana, Lycopersicon esculentum, Nicotiana tabacum, Pisum sativum, Glycine max, Oryza sativa, Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare and Zea mays were considered. For each amino acid, synonymous codon choice was determined in the presence of A, G, C or T as the initial nucleotide of the subsequent triplet; data were statistically analysed under the hypothesis of an independent assortment of codons. In 33.4% of cases, a frequency significantly (P: = 0.01) different from that expected was recorded. This was mainly due to a pervasive intercodon TpA and CpG deficiency. As a general rule, intercodon TpAs and CpGs were preferably replaced by CpAs and TpGs, respectively. In several instances, codon frequencies were also modified to avoid homotetramer and homotrimer formation, to reduce intercodon ApCs downstream (1,2) GG or AG dinucleotides, as well as to increase GpA or ApG intercodons under certain contexts. Since TpA, CpG and homotetra(tri)mer deficiency directly or indirectly accounted for 77% of significant variation in the codon frequency, it can be concluded that codon usage mirrors precise needs at the DNA structure level. Plant species exhibited a phylogenetically-related adaptation to structural constraints. Codon usage flexibility was reflected in strikingly different arrays of optimum codons for probe design.
10956080	Protein release from rice grains during high-pressure treatment was investigated. When polished rice grains were immersed in distilled water and pressurized at 100-400 MPa, a considerable amount of proteins (0.2-0.5 mg per gram of grains) was released. By sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analyses, the major proteins released were identified as 16 kDa albumin, alpha-globulin, and 33 kDa globulin, which were known as major rice allergens. By scanning electron microscopic observation of rice grains pressurized at 300 MPa, partial morphological changes in endosperm cells but no apparent structural changes in protein bodies were detected. The content of these allergenic proteins decreased by pressurization and almost completely disappeared from rice grains by the pressurization in the presence of proteolytic enzyme. These results suggest that partial destruction of endosperm cells caused by pressurization enhances permeability of a surrounding solution into rice grains and that a part of the proteins are solubilized and subsequently released into a surrounding solution.
10956081	Two novel tocotrienols were isolated from stabilized and heated rice bran, apart from the known alpha-, beta-, gamma-, and delta-tocopherols and tocotrienols. These new tocotrienols were separated by HPLC, using a normal phase silica column. Their structures were determined by ultraviolet, infrared, nuclear magnetic resonance, circular dichroism, and high-resolution mass spectroscopies and established as desmethyl tocotrienol [3, 4-dihydro-2-methyl-2-(4,8,12-trimethyltrideca-3'(E),7'(E), 11'-trienyl)-2H-1-benzopyran-6-ol] and didesmethy tocotrienol [3, 4-dihydro-2-(4,8,12-trimethyltrideca-3'(E),7'(E), 11'-trienyl)-2H-1-benzopyran-6-ol]. These tocotrienols significantly lowered serum total and LDL cholesterol levels and inhibited HMG-CoA reductase activity in chickens. They had much greater in vitro antioxidant activities and greater suppression of B16 melanoma cell proliferation than alpha-tocopherol and known tocotrienols. Results indicated that the number and position of methyl substituents in tocotrienols affect their hypocholesterolemic, antioxidant, and antitumor properties.
10956086	The extracts of saponified cereal fibers of whole grains of corn (Zea mays cv. microsperma KOERN.), wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), spelt (Triticum spelta L.), and rice (Oryza sativa L.) were investigated for dehydrodimers of ferulic acid using gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) with mass spectrometric detection (GLC-MS) and flame ionization detection (GLC-FID). In addition to the 8,5'-, 8, 8'-, 5,5'-, and 8-O-4'-coupled diferulic acids previously identified from other plant materials the 4-O-5'-coupled diferulic acid (E)-3-[4-[(E)-2-carboxyvinyl]-2-methoxyphenoxy]-4-hydroxy-5-methoxyci nnamic acid (4-O-5'-DFA) was identified in all fibers investigated. This new diferulate was authenticated by comparison of its mass spectrum and its relative GLC retention time with those of the synthesized compound. Semiquantitative determination of 4-O-5'-DFA showed that it is present at 8-30 microg/g, approximately 70-100 times lower concentrations than the sum of 8,5'-coupled diferulic acids, the major diferulic acids in the investigated fibers.
10956089	Experimental rats with hypertriglyceridemia were prepared by feeding a high-fructose diet. Dried Anka powder (2%), a rice product fermented with Monascus sp., was mixed with basic high-fructose (30%) or basal-diet feed. Serum and liver lipids were measured after 6 months. The concentrations of serum triglycerides, total cholesterol, VLDL-C, and LDL-C had significantly decreased, whereas that of HDL-C had slightly increased in 30% fructose-Anka-fed rats as compared with the 30% fructose-fed rats, but hepatic lipase activity had increased in the Anka-fed groups. The ratio of lipoprotein lipase/hepatic lipase was not significantly different between 30% fructose-Anka-fed rats and 30% fructose-fed rats. The dietary intake and weight of these two groups were approximately the same. Similar results were obtained in noninduced hypertriglyceridemic rats. The concentrations of triglycerides and cholesterol did not significantly differ in the liver. Interestingly, Anka can suppress serum triglycerides in rats with induced hypertriglyceridemia. The antioxidant enzyme SOD activity was also measured in serum, and no significant change was observed. On the basis of these findings, we suggest that Anka may be used to suppress hypertriglyceridemia and hyperlipidemia in rats and possibly in man.
10956164	14C-Labeled carbonyl sulfide (COS) was used to measure the amount of sorbed fumigant and alteration products on grains. Wheat, paddy rice, polished rice, mungbean, and safflower were exposed to a 60 mg L(-)(1) of (14)COS for 7 days and then aired for 5 days. Carbonyl sulfide and/or alteration products in sugars, protein, starch, amino acids, protopectines, and hemicelluloses were undetectable. The total uptakes of radioactivity determined after fractionation and also by extraction were in the range of 36-53 ng g(-)(1) COS equiv. The total radioactivity determined by autoradiography was below the detection limit of 70 ng g(-)(1) COS equiv. Radioactivity in the commodities was less than 0.003% of all the radioactivity applied. The amount of retained radiolabel was measured in three ways. First, biochemical fractions such as lipids and amino acids were separated by chromatography, and the activity was determined in each component. Second, commodities were crushed and extracted in aqueous acetone until the maximum amount of radiolabel was extracted. Third, autoradiography was carried out on commodity kernels.
10959569	Members of the Bacillus genus are ubiquitous soil microorganisms and are generally considered harmless contaminants. However, a few species are known toxin producers, including the foodborne pathogen, B. cereus. This species produces two distinct types of foodborne illness, the emetic (vomit-inducing) syndrome, associated with consumption of toxin in cooked rice dishes, and the diarrheal illness seen occasionally following consumption of contaminated meats, sauces, and certain dairy products. In the latter case, illness results from the production of enterotoxins by vegetative cells in the small intestine of the host. In dairy products, the occurrence of Bacillus spp. is inevitable, and the spore-forming ability of this organism allows it to easily survive pasteurization. Many strains have been shown to grow and produce enterotoxin in dairy products at refrigeration temperatures. Evaluation of toxin gene presence and toxin expression in Bacillus spp. other than B. cereus has not been thoroughly investigated. However, the presence of natural isolates of Bacillus spp. harboring one or more enterotoxin gene(s) and subsequent demonstration of conditions which may support toxin expression holds crucial importance in the food safety arena.
10959578	A new series of azole derivatives containing silicon were synthesized and evaluated for fungicidal activity against rice sheath blight by submerged application. Among them, 2-(4-fluorophenyl)-1-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-3-trimethylsilylpr opan-2-ol (9a) exhibited satisfactory efficacy at 12.5 grams per 10 ares.
10960144
10960308	Monsanto Co. has agreed to provide royalty-free licenses to speed up work on a genetically modified rice that could alleviate vitamin A deficiency around the world. Researchers welcomed last week's announcement, but warn that a thicket of intellectual property claims surrounds the technology and that significant legal hurdles remain before the rice can become widely available to farmers in developing countries.
10960727	To investigate the functions of debranching enzymes in starch biosynthesis, we have partially purified and characterized these activities from wild type and mutant sta7 Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Mutants of the STA7 locus substitute synthesis of insoluble granular starch by that of small amounts of glycogen-like material. The mutants were previously shown to lack an 88 kDa debranching enzyme. Two distinct debranching activities were detected in wild-type strains. The 88 kDa debranching enzyme subunit missing in glycogen-producing mutants (CIS1) is shown to be part of a multimeric enzyme complex. A monomeric 95 kDa debranching enzyme (CLD1) cleaved alpha-1,6 linkages separated by as few as three glucose residues while the multimeric complex was unable to do so. Both enzymes were able to debranch amylopectin while the alpha-1,6 linkages of glycogen were completely debranched by the multimeric complex only. Therefore CLD1 and the multimeric debranching enzyme display respectively the limit-dextrinase (pullulanase) and isoamylase-type specificities. Various mutations in the STA7 locus caused the loss of both CIS1 and of the multimeric isoamylase complex. In contrast to rice and maize mutants that accumulate phytoglycogen owing to mutation of an isoamylase-type DBE, isoamylase depletion in Chlamydomonas did not result in any qualitative or quantitative difference in pullulanase activity.
10961312	Pore flow in capillary electrochromatography (CEC) on porous silica particles has been investigated. To that end the migration behaviour of narrow polystyrene (PS) standards dissolved in di-methylformamide (DMF) with lithium chloride in 1 and 10 mmol/l concentration has been measured. These data have been compared to theoretical predictions. The latter were based on a model comprising cylindrical pores of varying diameter as measured experimentally by porosimetry, while the flow in each set of pores was calculated with the expression given by Rice and Whitehead. A reasonable to good agreement between experimental and predicted data was observed, provided it was assumed that pores of differing diameter occur in series. It was found that the flow in pores with a nominal size of 100 A can be considerable compared to the interstitial flow, especially at 10 mmol/l ionic strength. It is concluded that pore flow within porous particles in CEC, of great importance for improved efficiency in both interactive and exclusion type CEC, can be predicted fairly reliably by means of the Rice and Whitehead expression.
10963595	Crop heterogeneity is a possible solution to the vulnerability of monocultured crops to disease. Both theory and observation indicate that genetic heterogeneity provides greater disease suppression when used over large areas, though experimental data are lacking. Here we report a unique cooperation among farmers, researchers and extension personnel in Yunnan Province, China--genetically diversified rice crops were planted in all the rice fields in five townships in 1998 and ten townships in 1999. Control plots of monocultured crops allowed us to calculate the effect of diversity on the severity of rice blast, the major disease of rice. Disease-susceptible rice varieties planted in mixtures with resistant varieties had 89% greater yield and blast was 94% less severe than when they were grown in monoculture. The experiment was so successful that fungicidal sprays were no longer applied by the end of the two-year programme. Our results support the view that intraspecific crop diversification provides an ecological approach to disease control that can be highly effective over a large area and contribute to the sustainability of crop production.
10964269	We conducted a community-randomized controlled trial in Pakistan to determine the efficacy of indoor residual spraying with alphacypermethrin ('Fendona', Cyanamid, NJ, USA), applied at 25 mg/m2, to prevent falciparum and vivax malaria. Wettable powder (WP) and suspension concentrate (SC) formulations were tested against an unsprayed control in an irrigated rice-growing area of Sheikhupura district, Punjab province. The study area of 180 km2 was divided into nine sectors, which were assigned at random to control, WP, or SC treatments in replicates of 3. Sentinel villages were selected from each sector for entomological and disease monitoring. Malaria was monitored by fortnightly active case detection (ACD) and by cross- sectional parasite surveys on schoolchildren. Mosquito populations were monitored by space spraying of rooms and by cattle-landing catches. The spray campaign took place in June 1997 and covered 96% of compounds. During the 7 months after spraying, the incidence of falciparum malaria was 95% lower and that of vivax malaria 80% lower in WP-sprayed than unsprayed sectors. Similar results were obtained for sectors sprayed with the SC formulation. Cross-sectional surveys gave estimates of efficacy comparable to those obtained by ACD. Anopheles culicifacies was 80% less abundant and A.stephensi, the predominant anopheline, was up to 68% less abundant in sprayed areas over the 7-month period. Reductions in anopheline parous rates indicated that the single-spray treatment was effective for the entire transmission season. Sprayed surfaces lacked odour, which contributed to the popularity of the campaign. Alphacypermethrin is a promising insecticide for the control of malaria in Pakistan and South Asia generally.
10965036	Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) activase catalyzes the activation of RuBisCO in vivo. Two full length cDNAs designated as OsrcaA1 and OsrcaA2 encoding two RuBisCO activase isoforms of 47 and 43 kDa, respectively, have been cloned and characterized. The two isoforms were 99% identical, the 47 kDa isoform having an additional 33 amino acids and a 5 amino acid substitution at the carboxyl terminus. The deduced amino acid sequences of OsrcaA1 and OsrcaA2 showed 73-89% identity with RuBisCO activase from other higher plants. Two highly conserved ATP binding sites were identified. The Osrca mRNAs, and the RuBisCO activase proteins of 43 and 47 kDa were specifically detected in leaf, but not in root or etiolated seedling tissues. During leaf development, the abundance of Osrca mRNAs increased from the 7th to the 3rd leaf, and reached a maximum in the 2nd leaf, although the amounts of the 43 and 47 kDa RuBisCO activase remained almost unchanged among the six leaves, indicating the involvement of post-transcription control in the regulation of RuBisCO activase expression in rice. The co-immunoprecipitation of RuBisCO LSU and SSU with RuBisCO activase suggests that RuBisCO activase interacts with RuBisCO in vivo.
10965691	Nowadays stroke has a dominant place in the structure of neurological morbidity. According to data of the World Health Organization, stroke is the third highest cause of morbidity and mortality in the developed countries of the world, immediately following ischemic heart disease and malignant diseases. The appearance of the disease is influenced by many etiological factors, that is risk factors. Natural risk factors are: heredity, sex, age, geographical and climatic factors. Other diseases being risk factors include: hypertension, heart disease and diabetes. Bad habits as risk factors are: eating habits, obesity, smoking, alcoholism and physical and mental inactivity. The paper presents a review of risk factors, their categorization and the influence of each individual risk factor on the development of stroke. Hereditary factors have a significant role in development of stroke and they may serve as a basis for determining the person's susceptibility to stroke in a certain period of life. SEX: It has been proved that persons of female sex in the period prior to menopause are less susceptible to atherosclerosis risk and its side effects--ischemic heart disease and stroke. It is due to the fact that in this period of life women have a higher concentration of high-density lipoproteins, which are known to protect blood vessels against atherosclerosis. AGE: The incidence of stroke is higher at an older age, although nowadays there is evidence that younger people may develop the disease as well. It has been noticed that the frequency and intensity of insult are connected with abrupt changes of the front (weather conditions with certain values of atmospheric factors). A high correlation between the frequency of cerebrovascular insult and abrupt change of the front is evident during spells of warm front in cold months and during spells of cold front in warm months. Moreover, changes during the circadian cycle are of utmost importance. Hypertension is one of the factors contributing to the development of cerebrovascular insult, apart from heart diseases and diabetes. The most frequent heart diseases correlating with stroke are: endocardial diseases, myocardial diseases in the form of chronic heart failure or heart attack, atrial fibrillation, hypertrophy of the left chamber and congestive heart failure. Diabetes as an associated risk factor correlates with stroke. A special emphasis is placed on nutrition as a risk factor in development of stroke. Inadequate nutrition contributing to the development of stroke is primarily nutrition which includes a high percentage of fats and leads to hyperlipoproteinemias. Therefore the basic principle in the nutrition of a patient with hyperlipoproteinemias is to limit the overall intake of fats, to reduce the quantity of saturated fats and to increase the intake of unsaturated fatty acids. In order to prevent stroke it is recommended to consume sea fish, legumes rich in diet plant fibres, oats and corn cereals, whole grain rice, fruit and vegetables rich in vitamins C and E. It has been proved that obesity or increase in body weight increases the risk of developing stroke by 1.4 to 2.5 times. Smoking accelerates the process of atherosclerosis leading to the incidence of myocardial and brain stroke. In proportion to the length of smoking and the number of cigarettes, a relative risk of development of stroke goes from 2.4 to 6.1 for men and from 3 to 3.7 for women. A research performed by Finnish authors has shown that in chronic alcoholism the risk of developing stroke is twice as high in men and five times as high in women in relation to the general population. Alcohol reduces the regional cerebral flow by its toxic effect on the cerebral metabolism and thus induces vasospasm and hemoconcentration. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
10965940	The ATP-generated proton pumping across tonoplast vesicles from chilling-sensitive Boro rice (Oryza sativa L. var. Boro) cultured cells was markedly decreased by chilling at 5 degrees C for 3 d. The membrane fluidity of core hydrophobic and surface hydrophilic regions of the lipid bilayer was measured by steady-state fluorescence depolarization of 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene and trimethylammonium 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene and by electron spin resonance spectroscopy of 16- and 5-doxyl stearic acid, respectively. The fluidity of the surface region of the lipid bilayer of the tonoplast vesicles decreased by chilling. The fluidity of the surface region of the liposomes and the proton pumping across the reconstituted proteoliposomes with tonoplast H+-ATPase decreased with increasing content of the glycolipids. The proton pumping across chimera proteoliposomes was reduced by chilling only when it was reconstituted in the presence of tonoplast glycolipids from chilled Boro cells. These data suggest that the reduction in ATP-generated proton pumping across the tonoplast by chilling is due to the decrease in the fluidity of the surface region of the lipid bilayer of the tonoplast, which is caused by the changes in glycolipids.
10965944	DNA gel blot analysis suggested that asparagine synthetase (AS; EC 6.3.5.4) occurred as a single gene in rice. A fusion protein consisting of 17 kDa tagged-region from pET32a(+) expression plasmid and 42 kDa N-terminal region of rice AS was first expressed in Escherichia coli. The resulting polypeptide was purified and a mono-specific antibody for rice AS was prepared after affinity-purification with the antigen. Immunoblotting revealed a high content of AS protein in the leaf sheath at the second position from the fully expanded top leaf and in grains at the middle stage of ripening. Accumulation of mRNA for AS was also observed in these organs. During the ripening of the spikelets, the AS protein contents increased during the first 21 days after flowering, then declined rapidly. Immunolocalization analysis revealed signals for AS protein in the companion cells of vascular bundles of leaf sheath and phloem-parenchyma cells, nucellar projection, and nucellar epidermis of dorsal vascular bundles of grains.
10965945	To regulate Waxy (Wx) gene expression by introducing antisense genes, we connected the 2.3 kb Wx cDNA having 450 bp of the Wx first intron in reverse orientation to rice Wx and maize alcohol dehydrogenase1 (Adh1) promoters and used these constructs to transform rice plants. Of 10 independent transgenic lines analysed, four lines showed various degrees of reduction in amylose and WAXY (WX) protein levels in the endosperm. In two transgenic lines, complete absence of amylose was observed which made the seeds opaque white like glutinous rice (amylose-deficient waxy (wx) mutant). In one of the transgenic lines, A1 line, the presence of the antisense Wx gene cosegregated with reduction of amylose content in the endosperm. In the same line, a reduction in the level of endogenous Wx mRNA was observed in immature endosperm. Interestingly, this reduction was observed only with mature spliced transcripts but not with unspliced transcripts. Reduced amylose synthesis was also observed in pollen grains of four transgenic lines. These results suggest that integrated antisense Wx gene caused a reduction in amylose synthesis in endosperms and pollen grains of transgenic rice carrying the antisense Wx cDNA. These results indicate that manipulation of starch and other carbohydrates in rice grain is possible using antisense genes.
10966089	To describe the long-term productivity costs of occupational assaults. All incidents of physical assaults that resulted in indemnity payments, identified from the Minnesota Department of Labor and Industry (DLI) Workers' Compensation system in 1992. Medical expenditures were obtained from insurers, and data on lost wages, legal fees, and permanency ratings were collected from DLI records. Insurance administrative expenses were estimated. Lost fringe benefits and household production losses were imputed. The human capital approach was used to describe the long-term costs of occupational assaults. Economic software was used to apply a modified version of Rice, MacKenzie, and Associates' (1989) model for estimating the present value of past losses from 1992 through 1995 for all cases, and the future losses for cases open in 1996. The total costs for 344 nonfatal work-related assaults were estimated at $5,885,448 (1996 dollars). Calculation of injury incidence and average costs per case and per employee identified populations with an elevated risk of assault. An analysis by industry revealed an elevated risk for workers employed in justice and safety (incidence: 198/100,000; $19,251 per case; $38 per employee), social service (incidence: 127/100,000; $24,210 per case; $31 per employee), and health care (incidence: 76/100,000; $13,197 per case; $10 per employee). Identified subgroups warrant attention for risk factor identification and prevention efforts. Cost estimates can serve as the basis for business calculations on the potential value of risk management interventions.
10967968	Twenty samples of unpolished (rough) rice collected in Arkansas and Texas during the 1995 harvesting season from fields exhibiting Fusarium sheath rot disease or panicle blight were previously shown to include 8 samples positive for fumonisin B1 (FB1) in the range 2.2-5.2 ppm, and moniliformin (MON), but no beauvericin (BEA), deoxynivalenol, its derivatives or zearalenone were detected. Fifteen cultures of F. proliferatum were established from the 20 rough rice samples. Single spore isolates of each culture were grown on rice and tested for the production of fumonisins (FB1, FB2, FB3, etc.), MON and BEA. All 15 isolates produced FB1, FB2, MON and BEA in culture on rice. No deoxynivalenol, its derivatives or zearalenone were detected. Seven cultures produced FB1 at > 50 ppm (range 80-230 ppm), with the rest producing FB1 in the range 14-43 ppm. FB2 was produced in the range 5-47 ppm, and those cultures which produced the most FB1 also produced the most FB2. Of the 15 cultures producing MON, 11 produced it at > 100 ppm in the range 188-6018 ppm, with the rest producing in the range 7-64 ppm. BEA was produced in the range 109-1350 ppm. Other derivatives of fumonisins, including FA1, FA2 and partially hydrolyzed FB1, as well as several unknown metabolites including a compound with MW 414, were identified in culture extracts by continuous flow fast atom bombardment with ion spray mass spectrometry (CF/FAB/MS). Further study is needed to identify the factors that control production of FB1, MON and BEA by F. proliferatum in culture and in field samples.
10968403	This review article aims at summarizing the research findings on the biological aspects of ophiobolins, phytotoxins produced by the pathogenic fungi Bipolaris species, which usually infect rice, maize and sorghum. The topics covered include the organisms that produce the various ophiobolins, the structural variations of ophiobolins, the biological actions of ophiobolins in plants, animals and microorganisms, and the mode of action and the possible use of ophiobolin A as a calmodulin antagonist.
10970220
10971373
10971836	This article reviews the possible applications of new food biotechnology techniques to introduce some compounds into plants or animals. The potential for these plant modification methods has ample applications ranging from improvements in food production and development for human consumption, production of antibodies or therapeutic proteins, inclusion of nutrients to improve nutritional value of the food to production of vaccines. It must be clear though that currently the scope and consequences of such modifications are not completely clear. There is some concern about potential secondary effects and the hypothesis of the appearance of new viruses due to recombinant genetical transformations that have not been totally rejected. However the tendency is towards considering the process as safe. Finally some evidence is presented about the possibility of introducing the capacity to synthesize vitamin A in vegetables or produce rice with high content of iron as real alternatives to fight some of the nutritional deficiencies most common worldwide.
10972871	In the endosperm of japonica rice, du-1 and du-2 mutations cause the reduction of amylose contents. It was previously shown that the Wx(b) allele of rice, which is predominantly distributed in japonica rice, has a mutation in the 5' splice site of intron 1 resulting in the creation of two weak 5' splice sites within exon 1. In du-1 and du-2 mutants, spliced Wx(b) transcripts were highly reduced, whereas the processing of transcripts derived from three other genes highly expressed in endosperm was not apparently influenced. Results of competitive RT-PCR analysis indicate that transcripts spliced at the two newly created 5' splice sites were equally affected in these two mutants. Genetic and molecular analyses of the effects of du-1 and du-2 on Wx(a) pre-mRNA with normal splice sites indicate that these two mutations do not affect the processing of Wx(a) pre-mRNA after splicing, suggesting that du-1 and du-2 are mutations of genes required for the efficient splicing of mutated Wx(b) pre-mRNA. Furthermore, du-1 and du-2 showed differential effects in endosperm and pollen. Although both mutations caused similar effects on the splicing of Wx(a) transcripts in endosperm, du-1 caused higher reduction of Wx(b) mRNA in pollen than in endosperm, while du-2 had a lesser effect in pollen than in endosperm. Based on these results, we propose that the du-1 and du-2 loci of rice encode tissue-specifically regulated splicing factors that are involved in alternative splicing of pre-mRNA in rice.
10972886	The COP9 signalosome is a conserved cellular regulator present in diverse organisms. To understand the structural and functional relationship of the COP9 signalosome with its subunits, we expressed in wild-type and mutant Arabidopsis backgrounds two orthologues of subunit 1, rice FUS6 (rFUS6) and human GPS1, and Arabidopsis subunit 8 (COP9). In Arabidopsis, rFUS6 can functionally replace Arabidopsis endogenous FUS6 to form the COP9 signalosome complex and rescue the null fus6-1 mutant phenotype. Moreover, light-grown rFUS6 over-expression seedlings displayed longer hypocotyls and reduced anthocyanin accumulation in comparison to wild-type seedlings, which is opposite to the fus6/cop11 mutant phenotype. The long-hypocotyl phenotype was also observed in transgenic seedlings over-expressing Arabidopsis COP9. This finding indicates that over-expression of a functional subunit 1 or subunit 8 of the COP9 signalosome confers a gain-of-function phenotype relative to the complex. Human GPS1, when expressed in the fus6-1 null mutant of Arabidopsis, can assemble into a chimeric COP9 signalosome at low efficiency, demonstrating the structural conservation of the complexes between human and Arabidopsis. This low-abundancy chimeric complex is insufficient to fully rescue the mutant but is able to attenuate the mutant severity.
10974118	Novel 16S rDNA clones which possibly constitute a sister clade from the two known archaeal lineages, Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota, were found in paddy soil environments. Overall signature sequences showed that the clone sequences shared a majority of signature sequence features with the Archaea and Eukarya. However, there were at least nine nucleotides which distinguished the novel clones from the domains Archaea and Eukarya. Phylogenetic trees, drawn by maximum-parsimony, neighbour-joining and maximum-likelihood methods, also supported the unique phylogenetic position of the clones. Both signature sequence and phylogenetic analyses strongly suggest that the novel organisms constitute a new group and their phylogenetic positions are distant from the Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota. A specific primer set was designed to detect the presence of the novel group of organisms in terrestrial environments. Specific DNA fragments were amplified from all paddy soil DNAs, suggesting that the novel organisms are widely distributed in rice paddy fields in Japan.
10974166	An experiment to assess the impact of intermittent irrigation on Anopheles larval populations, rice yields and water use was conducted in the Mwea rice irrigation scheme in Kenya. Four water regimes including intermittent irrigation were tested in a complete randomized block experimental design. Intermittent irrigation was carried out on a weekly schedule, with flooded conditions from Saturday through Tuesday morning. Larval sampling at each plot was conducted every Monday and prior to draining of intermittently irrigated subplots on Tuesday. All the adult anopheline mosquitoes emerging from larvae collected in the experimental plots were identified as being An. arabiensis. By far the highest numbers of An. arabiensis 1st instar larvae were found in the intermittently irrigated subplots, indicating that the water regime provided the most attractive environment for egg laying. However, the ratio between the 4th and 1st instar larvae in the subplots was only 0.08, indicating very low survival rates. In contrast, the 4th/1st instar ratio for subplots with other water management regimes ranged between 0.27 and 0.68, suggesting a correspondingly higher survival than observed with intermittent irrigation. The total number of 4th instars was almost the same in the intermittently irrigated subplots and the irrigation system normally practised by the farmers. The failure to eliminate larval development up to the 4th instar in the former method was attributed to residual pools of water. Larval abundance fluctuated throughout the 12-week sampling period. The highest larval densities were recorded in the 3 weeks after transplanting the rice seedlings. Afterwards, larval numbers dropped dramatically as the height of rice plants increased. Rice yields at harvest did not show statistically significant differences among subplots with different water regimes. The average yield per hectare ranged from 4.8-5.3 metric tonnes. The average daily water percolation/seepage rate was 3.6 mm and did not significantly differ among different water management regimes. Further research is necessary to, among other things, determine whether rice yields could be increased by having flooded and drained intervals that were different from those used in this study. It would likewise be important to assess on a wider scale the feasibility of implementing intermittent irrigation with respect to farmer acceptance and required changes in irrigation system design and management.
10974540	Endomyces fibuliger is a yeast used in the production of Chinese rice wine. It secretes enzymes such as glucoamylase, alpha-amylase and acid protease. Very little is known of the genetics of E. fibuliger. In order to develop a transformation system for this yeast, orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase mutant strains were obtained and characterized. Transformation of the E. fibuliger ura3 mutant F1 with an integrative plasmid that carried the wild-type URA3 gene of E. fibuliger gave complementation of this mutation. The E. fibuliger gene encodes the orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase enzyme consisting of 266 amino acid residues with a 69.4% sequence identity with orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Our finding that E. fibuliger URA3 complements the ura3 mutation in S. cerevisiae confirms that the URA3 gene of E. fibuliger encodes a protein that exerts a similar function.
10975228	We examined the cosmology and ethnomedical beliefs of the Penan hunter gatherers of Brunei Darussalam on the island of Borneo. Our results suggest that they maintain a medical system that is limited in scope and detail compared to neighboring swidden rice cultivators. The Penan recognize the existence of a nearly infinite array of mostly unnamed, animist spirits that are loosely connected with the misfortunes of humans. Although taboo violation is believed to be associated with illness, there is no strict corpus of belief in respect to spirit placation. Dream readers offer advice on the causes of illness episodes, but their recommendations are neither necessarily accepted nor rigidly enforced. At least prior to permanent settlement, the Penan appear to have suffered from a limited suite of illnesses and treated them with a short list of plant medicines. We suggest that the Penans' abbreviated ethnomedical system is a function of their foraging subsistence mode. With a low population density, lack of domesticated livestock and fowl, and nomadic lifestyle, the Penan are unlikely to have suffered from the array of crowd and lifestyle diseases that afflict settled, agricultural societies. We hypothesize that the Penans' uncomplicated ethnomedical system, and perhaps that of other nomadic, tropical forest foraging groups, is consistent with the relatively disease-free conditions inherent to this subsistence lifestyle.
10975503	The phytotoxin coronatine induced the accumulation of the flavonoid phytoalexins sakuranetin and momilactone A in rice leaves. Coronatine-inducible sakuranetin production was under the control of kinetin and ascorbic acid (AsA), as observed with jasmonic acid (JA). The effects of kinetin and AsA on the activity of coronatine indicated that coronatine might elicit sakuranetin production in a manner similar to JA. The similarity of both their structures and the manner of elicitation of coronatine and JA suggest that they might interact at the same active site(s) to lead to phytoalexin production.
10976312	Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of two-line genic male sterile Indica rice variety Pei'ai 64S was conducted using a cloned gene, Xa21, as the foreign gene and mature embryo calli as the recipients. A total of 46 transgenic plants had been obtained. The PCR analysis and Southern blotting showed the integration of Xa21 gene into the genome the transgenic plants. Results of inoculation with philippine race 6 of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae indicated that most of transgenic plants obtained high resistance to rice bacterial blight disease (Xoo). Analyses of T1 plants of the tested transgenic lines showed that integrated Xa21 gene could be steadily inherited and segregated in a 3:1 ratio.
10976329	For seed commercialization of hybrid rice it is necessary to examine the purity of its seeds before field-production, because the seed purity is closely related to their heterosis performance and yield increase. In this research, 160 microsatellite markers were used for PCR amplification of rice seedling DNAs of Gangyou-22, which is a major hybrid rice in China, and its parents, Gang46A(CMS line) and CDR22(restorer line). A microsatellite marker, RM168, was screened out for its ability to produce polymorphic bands specific to each of the two parents but different from other 22 restorer lines and 9 cultivars. This provides an accurate and efficient method to examine the purity of a hybrid rice at an earlier time. Amplification of DNAs extracted from seeds and application of two microsatellite markers in one PCR system can further simplify the procedure and improve the accuracy of the seed purity examination.
10977896	Pesticidal activity and receptor-binding properties of Bacillus thuringiensis toxins to rice leaf folders, Cnaphalocrocis medinalis and Marasmia patnalis, were investigated. Saturation and competition binding experiments were done with iodine ((125)1)-labeled Bt proteins and brush border membrane vesicles prepared from the midgut of C. medinalis and M. patnalis. The results show saturable, specific, and high-affinity binding of all toxins except Cry2A toxin. Cry1Aa and Cry2A toxins were bound with low affinity but with high binding site concentration. Heterologous competition experiments showed that Cry1Aa, Cry1Ab, and Cry1Ac recognized or shared the same binding site that is different from the binding site for Cry2A toxin. Iodine ((125)I)-labeled Cry1Ac and Cry1Ab toxins were used in ligand blot experiments to detect specific binding proteins in brush border membrane vesicles of C. medinalis and M. patnalis. Cry1Ab toxin protein binds to 205-kDa and 200-kDa proteins respectively in case of C. medinalis and M. patnalis. The apparent molecular mass of the protein bound to labeled Cry1Ac toxins was identified as a 120-kDa protein in both C. medinalis and M. patnalis.
10978211	Fusapyrone (1) and deoxyfusapyrone (2), two alpha-pyrones originally isolated from rice cultures of Fusarium semitectum, were tested in several biological assays. Compounds 1 and 2 showed considerable antifungal activity against several plant pathogenic and/or mycotoxigenic filamentous fungi, although they were inactive toward yeasts isolated from plants and the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus megaterium in disk diffusion assays. Compound 1 was consistently more active than 2. Among the tested fungi, Fusarium species were the least sensitive to the two pyrones, while Alternaria alternata, Ascochyta rabiei, Aspergillusflavus, Botrytis cinerea, Cladosporium cucumerinum, Phoma tracheiphila, and Penicillium verrucosum were the most sensitive. Compounds 1 and 2 also showed good inhibitory activity toward agents of human mycoses. Aspergilli were the most sensitive, while some species-specific variability was found among the Candida spp. In an Artemia salina larvae bioassay, 1 was not toxic at the highest concentration tested (500 microM), whereas the LC(50) of 2 was 37.1 microM (21.8 microg/mL). Neither 1 nor 2 was phytotoxic in a panel of assays that monitored plant-cell toxicity, as well as wilt-, chlorosis-, and necrosis-inducing activity. Moreover, 2 stimulated the root elongation of tomato seedlings at doses of 10 and 100 microM. In consideration of the biological activities evidenced in this study, 1 and 2 appear to be potential candidates for biotechnological applications, as well as good models for studies on mechanism(s) of action and structure-activity relationships.
10978528	A cDNA encoding putative phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (PHGPX) was isolated from rice using rapid amplification of cDNA ends. This cDNA, designated ricPHGPX, includes an open reading frame encoding a protein of 169 amino acids which shares about 60% and 50% amino acid sequence identity with plant and mammalian PHGPXs, respectively. The gene is expressed at a relative high level in flag leaves and the expression can be markedly induced by oxidative stress, suggesting that the product of the gene plays a key role in defense against oxidative damage in rice.
10978733	Ecdysone agonists, including dibenzoylhydrazines, significantly inhibited the binding of [(3)H]ponasterone A ([(3)H]PoA) in intact Sf-9 cells (Spodoptera frugiperda). The amount of [(3)H]PoA binding varied in a concentration-dependent manner. According to the IC(50), concentration at which there is 50% inhibition, the order of potency of typical ecdysone agonists is tebufenozide (RH-5992) > methoxyfenozide (RH-2485) > PoA > 20-hydroxyecdysone > cyasterone > RH-5849, makisterone A > or = inokosterone > ecdysone. The ranking is consistent with that obtained from a cultured integument system of the rice stem borer Chilo suppressalis except for methoxyfenozide. Other compounds whose modes of action are different from that of ecdysteroids, for example respiration inhibitors, plant steroid hormones, and chitin synthesis inhibitors, did not inhibit the binding of [(3)H]PoA significantly. The mammalian hormones estradiol and diethylstilbestrol, and a secondary bile acid, lithocholic acid, significantly inhibited the binding of [(3)H]PoA at 25 microM. However, their binding activity in terms of pIC(50) was either very low or not evaluated.
10979156	Assessing how the Italian average food pattern would be affected in terms of consumption structure and expenditure by the adoption of nutritional prescriptions. A linear programming model with nutritional and food habits constraints was employed to generate a pattern following recommended daily allowances (RDAs) and nutritional guidelines provided for the Italian population. Food consumption data from ISTAT Household Budget Survey of Italian population. Italian families investigated by the Family Budget Survey of the National Institute of Statistics. Compared to actual behaviour, the pattern generated by the model implies an increased consumption of vegetables, pasta, rice and fresh fish, and a decreased consumption of meats, bread, sugars and cakes, and especially fats and oils. At given prices, total expenditure is lower than actual expenditure. Differences between actual behaviour and the generated pattern are consistent with long-term trends in food consumption. The adoption of RDAs is unlikely to result in an increased food expenditure.
10979185	The region between RFLP markers G342 and R1167 was the subterminal part of the longer arm on the rice chromosome 6, because Shen et al. (1998) mapped two telomeric repeat associated sequences distal to G342. In order to integrate the genetic map and the physical map of the region, G342 and R1167 were firstly used to screen BAC library. Based on the positive clones detected by the two markers and chromosome walking by using the outer most insert-end of the overlapping clones, a contig containing 16 BAC clones which spanned 500 kb was constructed. All the insert-ends of the BAC clones could be amplified with thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR. Fourteen insert-ends were subcloned. Seven of them were identified as a single or low copy sequences and five were mapped on the expected sites flanking G342 or R1167. The insert fragment isolated from the minimum tile BAC clones of the contig was used to screen a cDNA library and four different positive clones were detected.
10979186	Dular is one of the typical wide compatibility varieties in ecotype Aus of rice. Genetic analysis on wide compatibility genes (WCG) from Dular based on triple crosses (indica//++Dular/japonica) was conducted. In the condition of being shaded for 7 days, the individual spikelet fertility segregated obviously, and the continuous distributions of spikelet fertility with a handful of peaks were observed. This suggested that the segregation of spikelet fertility in triple cross populations was controlled by one or more major genes, also modified by some minor genes. Based on 109 individuals of triple cross Nanjing 11 (indica)//++Dular/2533(japonica, a marker gene line, Rc and g), fertile and semisterile pools were set up by bulked segregant analysis, the RFLP analysis of the two pools led to the discovery of three chromosomal segments co-segregating with fertility. The one is on the interval RG213-C235 on chromosome 6. According to the previous studies, it may be the wide compatibility gene S5n. The other two were on the interval RG901-RG413 and G402-RG651 on chromosome 12, temporarily designated as Sd1(t)n and Sd2(t)n, respectively. Because of the continuous distribution for spikelet fertility, we also used a quantitative model to evaluate the effects of those three loci. On the basis of interval analysis with Mapmaker/QTL, 32.3% of the phenotypic variance associated with spikelet fertility was explained by the S5n (LOD = 9.03), and the other two chromosomal segments were responsible for 10.5%(LOD = 2.61) and 10.9%(LOD = 2.14) phenotypic variance, respectively. The results demonstrated that the wide compatibility variety Dular contained three WCGs. To introgress the three WCGs into a restorer line or an abortive line will overcome the hybrid sterility barrier of indica/japonica crosses, and the precise RFLP mapping will be useful for breeders to accumulate a few genes of interest into one cultivar by means of molecular marker assisted selection.
10979187	A sterile variant was found from the population of a japonica rice variety Lunhui 422. Cytological investigation was conducted in meiosis. It is showed that the sterility was caused by desynapsis. As there were 8.69 bivalents in average occurred to be desynaptic, moreover, the most number of the desynaptic bivalents reached 12 at post diakinsis. It can be considered that the desynaptic variation is a complete desynapsis found in rice so far.
10982424	We investigated sugar uptake and transport in rice (Oryza sativa) embryo during grain germination. Endogenous sugar levels, accumulation of starch granules, and gene expression of a rice sucrose transporter (OsSUT1) were examined using rice embryos germinated with or without exogenous sugar supply. Starch granules remarkably accumulated in the cells around vascular bundles as a consequence of the sugar taken up by the embryos, indicating that the taken-up sugars are transiently converted into starch. In situ detection for OsSUT1 mRNA indicated its localization in the phloem companion cells. Furthermore, northern-blot and in situ hybridization analyses showed that OsSUT1 expression is not detectable in embryos subjected to sugar starvation conditions, whereas its expression is enhanced by an increased endogenous sugar level. Overall results indicate that the expression of companion cell-specific sucrose transporter, OsSUT1 is regulated by the endogenous sugar status as well as light exposure.
10982431	A cDNA encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK) of Urochloa panicoides (a PCK-type C4 plant) was expressed in rice (Oryza sativa cv Tsukinohikari) plants under the control of the promoter of a maize (Zea mays) gene for phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase or pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase with the transit peptide of the small subunit of Rubisco. Crude extracts prepared from the green leaves of transgenic plants had high PCK activity and the newly expressed PCK was localized in chloroplasts. In labeling experiments with (14)CO(2) up to 20% of the radioactivity was incorporated into 4C compounds (malate, oxaloacetate, and aspartate) in excised leaves of transgenic plants, as compared with about 1% in excised leaves of control plants. There was a positive correlation between PCK activity and the extent of labeling of 4C compounds. When L-[4-(14)C]malate was fed to excised leaves the extent of incorporation of radioactivity into sucrose was 3-fold greater in transgenic plants than in control plants and the level of radiolabeled aspartate was significantly lower in transgenic plants. These results indicate that the ectopic expression of PCK in rice chloroplasts was able partially to change the carbon flow in mesophyll cells into a C4-like photosynthetic pathway. Such a strategy appears to provide a possible method for enhancing the photosynthetic capacity of C3 plants.
10982886	A wealth of molecular resources have been developed for rice genomics, including dense genetic maps, expressed sequence tags (ESTs), yeast artificial chromosome maps, bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries and BAC end sequence databases. Integration of genetic and physical maps involves labor-intensive empirical experiments. To accelerate the integration of the bacterial clone resources with the genetic map for the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project, we cleaned and filtered the available EST and BAC end sequences for repetitive sequences and then searched all available rice genetic markers with our filtered databases. We identified 418 genetic markers that aligned with at least one BAC end sequence with >95% sequence identity, providing a set of large insert clones with an average separation of 1 Mb that can serve as nucleation points for the sequencing phase of the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project.
10984169	In plant genomes as well as other eukaryotic genomes, meiotic recombination does not occur uniformly. At the level of the gene, high recombination frequencies are often observed within genetic loci in maize, but this feature of intragenic recombination is not seen at the csr1 locus in Arabidopsis. These observations suggest that meiotic recombination in plant genomes varies considerably among species. In the present study we investigated meiotic recombination at the wx locus in rice. The mutation sites of wx mutants induced by ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) treatment or gamma-ray irradiation and a spontaneous wx mutant were physically characterized, and the genetic distances between those wx mutation sites were estimated by pollen analysis. Based on these results, the recombination frequency at the wx locus in rice was estimated as 27.3 kb/cM, which was about 10 times higher than the average for the genome, suggesting that there was a radically different rate of meiotic recombination for intra- and intergenic regions in the rice genome.
10984186
10984404	The gelatinization of rice starch is reported as a function of temperature and pressure from the changes in the ir spectrum. The diagram that is observed is reminiscent of those obtained for the denaturation of proteins and the phase separation observed from the cloud point for several water soluble synthetic polymers. It is proposed that the reentrant shape of the diagram for starch is not only due to hydrogen bonding but also to the imperfect packing of amylose and amylopectin chains in the starch granule. The influence of pressure and temperature on thermodynamic parameters leading to this diagram is discussed.
10985030	Experiments were conducted to measure the effect of feeding by the planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stl) on photosynthesis and the translocation of assimilates in rice plants, Oryza sativa L. We used mature japonica rice plants and applied the 13CO2 feeding method to evaluate those physiological effects. The photosynthetic rate was suppressed by N. lugens infestation, especially at the lower leaf position, with rates 30% lower than that of control plants at the booting stage. Leaf nitrogen concentration in infested plants was also lower than that in control plants. After flowering, the chlorophyll content and total plant dry weight were reduced by N. lugens. Stem and sheath dry weights were significantly reduced by N. lugens infestation, whereas panicle dry weight was not affected. Little effect was found on disruption in translocation of assimilates, even when 13CO2 was supplied to the infested leaves. Results suggested that removal of assimilates and reduction in photosynthesis by N. lugens have the greatest effect on growth and yield of rice plants as compared with the disruption in the translocation of assimilates. Plant death can occur by N. lugens infestation if the amount of energy supplied is less than that required for tissue maintenance.
10987138	The green fluorescent protein (GFP) from the jellyfish Aequorea victoria is a widely used reporter that can be directly visualized in the living cells in both animals and plants. We inserted a synthetic gene (sgfp) encoding a modified form of the GFP into expression vector, Act1-sgfp for the direct expression of GFP which is easily detectable in rice plants. Green fluorescence emitted from GFP could be visualized in calli, dry seeds, roots and seedlings with green shoots of transgenic rice plants. In our visualization system with a charge-coupled device camera, band-pass filters and a light source, the presence of red chlorophyll autofluorescence from chloroplasts did not alter the green fluorescence of GFP. These results demonstrate that GFP could be used as a non-destructive visual selection marker for examining gene expression in transformed calli, dry seeds and young plants.
10987556	Internodal growth of deepwater rice (Oryza sativa L.) can achieve rates of up to 10 mm h(-1). In submergence-induced plants, gibberellic acid activates the cell division cycle first at the G1 --> S phase transition with a subsequent increase in mitotic activity. The proteins cycA1;1 and cdc2Os-3 are the regulatory and catalytic subunits, respectively, of cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) which are central to cell cycle regulation. Both genes are regulated by gibberellic acid in a coordinate manner with transcripts accumulating in the G2 phase prior to the B2-type mitotic cyclins described previously (M. Sauter et al. 1995, Plant J 7: 623-632), suggesting a distinct role in regulating G2/M phase progression. Since cdc2Os-3 belongs to a group of CDKs that have no counterparts in animals, it may function in a plant-specific gibberellin-regulated cell division process.
10994512	The glycaemic response of an insulin-treated diabetic patient goes through many transitory phases, leading to a steady state glycaemic profile following a change in either insulin regimen or diet. Most models attempting to model the glucose and insulin relationship try to model the effect of oral or injected glucose rather than that from the digestion of food. However, it is clear that a better understanding of the glycaemic response would arise from consideration of intestinal absorption from the gut. It is assumed that this type of absorption can be modelled by a so-called glucose appearance function (systemic appearance of glucose via glucose absorption from the gut) predicting the glucose load from the food. Much research has been carried out in the areas of hepatic balance, insulin absorption and insulin independent/dependent utilization. However, little is known about intestinal absorption patterns or their corresponding glucose appearance profiles. The strategy under investigation herein is to use deconvolution or backward engineering. By starting with specific results i.e. blood glucose and insulin therapy, it is possible to work backwards to predict the glucose forcing functions responsible for the outcome. Assuming compartmental consistency, this will allow a clearer insight into the true gut absorption process. If successful, the same strategy can be applied to more recent glucose and insulin models to further our understanding of the food to blood glucose problem. This paper investigates the Lehmann-Deutsch modified model of glucose and insulin interaction, created from the model proposed by Berger-Rodbard. The model attempts to simulate the steady state glycaemic and plasma insulin responses, independent of the initial values from which the simulation is started. Glucose enters the model via both intestinal absorption and hepatic glucose production. We considered a 70 kg male insulin-dependent diabetic patient with corresponding hepatic and insulin sensitivity parameters of 0.6 and 0.3 respectively. Net hepatic glucose balance was modelled piecewise by linear and symmetric functions. A first-order Euler method with step size of 15 minutes was employed. For the simulation, only Actrapid and NPH injections were considered. The injection of insulin and the glucose flux to the gut were started simultaneously to avoid any delay associated with gastric emptying. The systemic appearance of glucose was compared from two view points, not only to assess the strategic principle, but also to assess the suitability of the modifications made by Lehmann and Deutsch. The first is a forward prediction using the compartmental structure. This analysis involves the rate of gastric emptying without time delay. The second is a backward prediction from experimentally observed blood glucose profiles. Investigations involved porridge, white rice and banana containing the same carbohydrate content (25 g). Results obtained from the first analysis were dependent on the rate of gastric emptying, especially its ascending and descending branches. Results from the second analysis were dependent on the dose and type of insulin administered. Both predicted profiles showed consistency with physiological reasoning, although it became apparent that such solutions could be unstable. Furthermore, both types of prediction were similar in structure and appearance, especially in simulations for porridge and banana. This emphasized the consistency and suitability of both analyses when investigating the compartmental accuracy and limitations within a model. The new strategic approach was deemed a success within the model, and the modifications made by Lehmann and Deutsch appropriate. We suggest that a gastric emptying curve with a possible gastric delay is the way forward in regulating the appearance of glucose via gut absorption. The Lehmann-Deutsch gastric curve is described by either a trapezoidal or triangular function dependent on the carbohydrate cont
10995131	The molecular weight limit of water-soluble dietary fiber (SDF) determined by the Prosky method was studied by liquid chromatography (LC). It was confirmed that only SDF with an average degree of polymerization of 12 or higher can be determined by the Prosky method. Total dietary fiber (TDF) was determined by 2 additional methods using LC. In the first method, the total quantity of insoluble dietary fiber (IDF) and high molecular weight SDF (HMSDF) was determined according to the modified Prosky method (MES-TRIS buffer-based). The quantitatively collected final filtrate was analyzed by LC for the quantity of low molecular weight SDF (LMSDF), and the 2 quantities were totaled to obtain TDF. TDF values thus determined for rice, polished or unpolished, soybean flour, and pressed barley were higher than those determined by the Prosky method by approximately 6, 3.5, and 3.5%, respectively. In the second method, direct determination by LC analysis was done on samples after enzymatic treatment according to the Prosky method. Results showed that the determination of LMSDF, in particular, was highly accurate and more effective. In both of these methods, the quantity of LMSDF was determined from its chromatographic peak area ratio to glucose as an internal standard, which was produced by hydrolysis.
10995315	A gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) method was used for the quantitative confirmation of phosphine residues in stored products and processed foods. An established extraction technique was utilized for the preparation of headspace samples, which were analyzed by GC-MS and gas chromatography-nitrogen-phosphorus detection (GC-NPD). Wheat, oats, maize, white rice, brown rice, cornflakes, tortilla cornchips, groundnuts, and raisins were validated, showing excellent agreement between detectors when spiked at levels equivalent to 0.001 and 0.01 mg/kg phosphine and for samples containing incurred residues. The GC-MS method was reproducible and accurate when compared to the GC-NPD method and allowed five samples to be quantified in a working day. Subambient GC-MS oven temperatures were most suitable for phosphine residues ranging from 0.001 to 0.005 mg/kg, and a GC oven temperature of 100 degrees C was appropriate for residues >0.005 mg/kg. The method was sufficiently robust to be evaluated for other similar commodities as the need arises.
10995357	The effect of 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4,5-T) on the germination and seedling vigor of different crop seeds was tested. Seeds of rice, maize, sorghum, finger millet, and horse gram were comparatively more tolerant to the chemical with no marked effect up to a concentration of 200 mg 2,4,5-T L(-)(1) as tested by the filter paper method. Tomato and brinjal (egg plant) were highly susceptible. Even at 5 and 10 mg 2,4,5-T L(-)(1), marked reduction in the germination and seedling vigor of tomato and egg plant, respectively, was observed. At 20 and 30 mg L(-)(1), the germination of tomato and egg plant seeds, respectively, were completely inhibited on filter paper, whereas the inhibitory concentrations in soil was 40 mg 2,4,5-T kg(-)(1) soil. Several abnormalities were observed in the chemically affected seedlings. Protease activity of the seeds germinating in the presence of the chemical was drastically reduced. Bioremediation of the chemically contaminated soil with Burkholderia cepacia AC1100, by inoculation of the soil 7 days before sowing the seeds, completely protected the seeds, resulting in normal germination and an improved seedling vigor.
10995371	A variety of naturally occurring aldehydes common in plants have been evaluated for their insecticidal activity and for phytotoxicity to postharvest fruits, vegetables, and grains. Twenty-nine compounds were initially screened for their activity against aphids on fava bean leaf disks. Application under reduced pressure (partial vacuum) for the first quarter of fumigation increased insecticidal activity severalfold. The 11 best aldehydes were assayed against aphids placed under the third leaf of whole heads of iceberg lettuce using the same two-tier reduced-pressure regime, which caused no additional detriment to the commodity over fumigation at atmospheric pressure. Phytotoxicity to naked and wrapped iceburg lettuce, green and red table grapes, lemon, grapefruit, orange, broccoli, avocado, cabbage, pinto bean, and rice at doses that killed 100% of aphids was recorded for three promising fumigants: propanal, (E)-2-pentenal, and 2-methyl-(E)-2-butenal. These three compounds have excellent potential as affordable postharvest insect control agents, killing 100% of the aphids with little or no detectable harm to a majority of the commodities tested. Preliminary assays indicate that similar doses are also effective against mealybugs, thrips, and whitefly.
10995376	Capric acid (C10:0) was incorporated into rice bran oil with an immobilized lipase from Rhizomucor miehei as the biocatalyst. Effects of incubation time, substrate mole ratio, enzyme load, and water addition on mole percent incorporation of C10:0 were studied. Transesterification was performed in an organic solvent, hexane, and under solvent-free condition. Pancreatic lipase-catalyzed sn-2 positional analysis and tocopherol analysis were performed before and after enzymatic modification. Products were analyzed by gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) for fatty acid composition. After 24 h of incubation in hexane, there was an average of 26.5 +/- 1.8 mol % incorporation of C10:0 into rice bran oil. The solvent-free reaction produced an average of 24.5 +/- 3.7 mol % capric acid. In general, as the enzyme load, substrate mole ratio, and incubation time increased, the mole percent of capric acid incorporation also increased. Time course reaction indicated C10:0 incorporation increased up to 27.0 mol % at 72 h, for the reaction in hexane, and up to 29.6 mol % at 12 h, for the solvent-free reaction. The highest C10:0 incorporations (53.1 and 43.2 mol %) for the mole ratio experiment occurred at a mole ratio of 1:8 for solvent and solvent-free reactions, respectively. The highest C10:0 incorporation (27.9 mol %) for the reaction in hexane occurred at 10% enzyme load, and the highest incorporation (34.4 mol %) for the solvent-free reaction occurred at 20% enzyme load. Incorporation of C10:0 into rice bran oil declined with the addition of increasing amounts of water after reaching 30.3 mol % at 2% water addition in hexane, and in the solvent-free reaction after reaching 35.9 mol %.
10996240	Although several japonica and some indica varieties of rice have already been transformed, there is significant scope for improvement in the technology for transformation of economically important indica varieties. Successful transformation of rice employing Agrobacterium and recent advances in direct gene transfer by biolistics, evidenced by transfer of multiple genes, have removed some of the serious impediments in the area of gene engineering. The transfer of genes for nutritionally important biosynthetic pathway has provided many opportunities for performing metabolic engineering. Other useful genes for resistance against pests, diseases and abiotic stresses have also been transferred to rice. But the limited knowledge about important target genes requires rapid progress in the field of functional genomics. Transgenic rice system can be applied to isolate new genes, promoters, and enhancers and their functions could be unravelled. The combination of novel regulatory systems for targeted expression and useful new genes should pave the way for improvement of rice and other cereals.
10996242	By using the rice EST database, we have isolated a 2.8 kb cDNA, termed Oryza sativa ORC1 (OsORC1), from rice (O. sativa) encoding a protein that shows homology with the eukaryotic ORC1 proteins. Alignment of the OsORC1 protein sequence with the sequence of ORC1 from human and yeasts S. cerevisiae and S. pombe showed a high degree of sequence homology (38.7, 32.9 and 35.0% identity, respectively), particularly around the C-terminal region containing the CDC-NTP domain. Interestingly, the OsORC1 protein had an A+T hook-like motif, which was not present in the human or yeast genes. Genomic analysis indicated that OsORC1 existed as a single copy per genome. OsORC1 transcripts were expressed strongly in root tips and weakly in young leaves containing root apical meristem and marginal meristem, respectively. No expression was detected in the mature leaves. The level of OsORC1 expression was significantly reduced when cell proliferation was temporarily halted by the removal of sucrose from the growth medium. When the growth-halted cells began to re-grow following addition of sucrose to the medium, OsORC1 was again expressed at high levels. These results suggested that OsORC1 is required for cell proliferation. The role of OsORC1 in plant DNA replication will be discussed.
10996246	The effect of excess Fe(2+) on the peroxidase (POD) activity in detached rice leaves was investigated. FeSO(4) was effective in stimulating POD activity in detached rice leaves under both light and dark conditions. FeSO(4) but not K(2)SO(4) induced POD activity, indicating that POD activity is induced by Fe(2+). FeSO(4)-induced POD activity is not specific for the rice cultivar used in this study. CuSO(4) and ZnSO(4) were also observed to induce POD activity in detached rice leaves. Cycloheximide blocked the enhanced activity of POD by Fe(2+), Cu(2+) or Zn(2+), indicating de novo biosynthesis of the enzyme. Paraquat treatment resulted in a decrease in POD activity. H(2)O(2) had no effect on POD activity in detached rice leaves. It seems that Fe(2+)-, Cu(2+)- or Zn(2+)-induced POD may not be mediated by free radicals. Using isoelectric focusing to separate POD, it was found that excess Fe(2+), Cu(2+) or Zn(2+) induced both quantitative and qualitative metal-specific changes in POD isozyme pattern in detached rice leaves. A new POD isozyme with a pI of 4.81 can be induced by Fe(2+), Cu(2+) and Zn(2+) in detached rice leaves.
10997779	This paper presents a preparative and staining procedure for plant mitotic chromosomes that uses a combination of PI (propidium iodide) and DAPI (4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindol) and which reveals a pattern of high-affinity regions for these fluorochromes. Nucleolar organiser regions (NORs), telomeres and centromeric regions exhibit high PI affinity (red), whereas other chromosomal regions exhibit high affinity for either PI (red) or DAPI (blue). NOR-bearing and other chromosomes are readily distinguished, facilitating karyotyping. The dual staining pattern was observed in all the plants tested. Aspects of NOR size, number and occurrence are discussed. A karyotype of rice metaphase chromosomes is presented, based on their fluorescent banding patterns.
10998053	A full-length lipoxygenase cDNA (RCI-1) has been cloned from rice (Oryza sativa) whose corresponding transcripts accumulate in response to treatment of the plants with chemical inducers of acquired resistance such as benzo(1,2,3)thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-methyl ester (BTH), 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA), and probenazole. In contrast, RCI-1 transcript levels did not increase after inoculation with compatible and incompatible races of the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea and the nonhost pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. RCI-1 transcript levels also increased after exogenous application of jasmonic acid, but not upon wounding. Dose-response and time course experiments revealed a similar pattern of transcript accumulation and lipoxygenase activity in BTH-treated rice leaves. Enzymatic analysis of recombinant RCI-1 protein produced in Escherichia coli revealed that 13-hydroperoxy-octadecanoic acids were the predominant reaction products when either linoleic or linolenic acid used as a substrate. The RCI-1 sequence features a putative chloroplast targeting sequence at its N-terminus. Indeed, a protein consisting of the putative chloroplast transit peptide fused to green fluorescent protein was exclusively localized in chloroplasts, indicating that RCI-1 is a chloroplastic enzyme.
11000259	Rice dwarf virus (RDV) is a double-shelled particle that contains a major capsid protein (P8), a major core protein (P3), several minor core proteins, and viral genomic double-stranded RNA. Coexpression of P8 and P3 in transgenic rice plants resulted in formation of double-shelled, virus-like particles (VLPs) similar to the authentic RDV particles. The VLPs were not detected in transgenic rice plant cells expressing P8 alone. This in vivo result suggests that P8 interacted with P3 and that these two proteins provide the structural integrity required for the formation of VLPs in rice cells independently of other structural proteins, nonstructural proteins, or viral genomic double-stranded RNAs.
11000298	To report four cases of rice bodies (RBs) showing remarkable size variations and discuss their pathogenesis. Based on analysis of the clinical data, we speculate on the pathogenesis of RBs using immunohistochemical and ultrastructural methods. The patients comprised three men and one woman, three with RBs in the subacromial bursae and one in the wrist synovial sheath, aged 28 (woman), 44, 50 and 81 (wrist) years, respectively. There were no particular differences in clinical data among the patients. T2-weighted MR imaging was very useful for diagnosis of the RBs, allowing their clear delineation from the bursal fluid. The RBs consisted of a layered protein- aceous substance with vague targetoid cut surfaces. Much fibrin and a lesser amount of collagen fibers were recognized together with various mononuclear cells, which were few in number and predominantly T cells. The bursae and synovial sheath had multiple fibrinoid spheroids at the luminal surface. Fibrinoid nodular deposits probably became detached, forming the nuclei of RBs and growing to a giant RB 65 mm in diameter.
11003521	The radioisotope 252Cf is routinely encapsulated into compact, portable, intense neutron sources with a 2.6-yr half-life. A source the size of a person's little finger can emit up to 10(11) neutrons s(-1). Californium-252 is used commercially as a reliable, cost-effective neutron source for prompt gamma neutron activation analysis (PGNAA) of coal, cement and minerals, as well as for detection and identification of explosives, land mines and unexploded military ordinance. Other uses are neutron radiography, nuclear waste assays, reactor start-up sources, calibration standards and cancer therapy. The inherent safety of source encapsulations is demonstrated by 30 yr of experience and by US Bureau of Mines tests of source survivability during explosions. The production and distribution center for the US Department of Energy (DOE) Californium Program is the Radiochemical Engineering Development Center (REDC) at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL). DOE sells 252Cf to commercial reencapsulators domestically and internationally. Sealed 252Cf sources are also available for loan to agencies and subcontractors of the US government and to universities for educational, research and medical applications. The REDC has established the Californium User Facility (CUF) for Neutron Science to make its large inventory of 252Cf sources available to researchers for irradiations inside uncontaminated hot cells. Experiments at the CUF include a land mine detection system, neutron damage testing of solid-state detectors, irradiation of human cancer cells for boron neutron capture therapy experiments and irradiation of rice to induce genetic mutations.
11006332	Norin 1, a progenitor of many economically important Japanese rice strains, is highly sensitive to the damaging effects of UVB radiation (wavelengths 290 to 320 nm). Norin 1 seedlings are deficient in photorepair of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers. However, the molecular origin of this deficiency was not known and, because rice photolyase genes have not been cloned and sequenced, could not be determined by examining photolyase structural genes or upstream regulatory elements for mutations. We therefore used a photoflash approach, which showed that the deficiency in photorepair in vivo resulted from a functionally altered photolyase. These results were confirmed by studies with extracts, which showed that the Norin 1 photolyase-dimer complex was highly thermolabile relative to the wild-type Sasanishiki photolyase. This deficiency results from a structure/function alteration of photolyase rather than of nonspecific repair, photolytic, or regulatory elements. Thus, the molecular origin of this plant DNA repair deficiency, resulting from a spontaneously occurring mutation to UV radiation sensitivity, is defective photolyase.
11006334	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are plant growth-promoting natural products required for plant growth and development. Physiological studies have demonstrated that exogenous BR, alone or in combination with auxin, enhance bending of the lamina joint of rice. However, little is known about the function of endogenous BR in rice or other grass species. We report here the phenotypical and molecular characterization of a rice dwarf mutant, d61, that is less sensitive to BR compared to the wild type. We cloned a rice gene, OsBRI1, with extensive sequence similarity to that of the Arabidopsis BRI gene, which encodes a putative BR receptor kinase. Linkage analysis showed that the OsBRI1 gene is closely linked to the d61 locus. Single nucleotide substitutions found at different sites of the d61 alleles would give rise to amino acid changes in the corresponding polypeptides. Furthermore, introduction of the entire OsBRI1 coding region, including the 5' and 3' flanking sequences, into d61 plants complemented the mutation to display the wild-type phenotype. Transgenic plants carrying the antisense strand of the OsBRI1 transcript showed similar or even more severe phenotypes than those of the d61 mutants. Our results show that OsBRI1 functions in various growth and developmental processes in rice, including (1) internode elongation, by inducing the formation of the intercalary meristem and the longitudinal elongation of internode cells; (2) bending of the lamina joint; and (3) skotomorphogenesis.
11007290	Phosphine emission fluxes from paddy fields, phosphine ambient levels in air, and the vertical profile of matrix-bound phosphine in soil have been measured throughout the growing season of rice in Beijing, China. It was found that both the seasonal and diurnal emission fluxes and ambient levels fluctuate significantly. During the drainage period, phosphine released from the soil with the highest diurnal average flux on the first period of drainage (approx. 17.7 ng m(-2) h(-1)), whereas its highest ambient level (approx. 250 ng m(-3)) occurred at 06.00 h. During the flooded period, phosphine emission was low, and the peaks of phosphine emissions occurred at midnight. The average flux of PH3 emission for the whole season was found to be approximately 1.78 ng m(-2) h(-1). The mass fraction of matrix-bound phosphine is approximately 0.18 approximately 1.42 x 10(-7) (m/m) part of organic phosphorus or 3.4 approximately 9.2 x 10(-9) (m/m) part of total phosphorus in paddy soil. The amount of phosphine emitted to the atmosphere was only a small fraction of the phosphine that remained in the soil in the matrix-bound form. Soil serves both as the source and the sink of PH3.
11013876	Plants are aerobic organisms for which oxygen shortage poses a severe problem. Waterlogging and flooding are the main causes of anaerobiosis and can lead to damage or even death of the plant. Rice is well adapted to semi-aquatic conditions. It is the only cereal that can be grown in flooded areas such as the great river deltas of Asia. In rice, two major strategies have evolved to cope with conditions of flooding. One is to escape submergence and thereby avoid anaerobiosis as much as possible. This is achieved through elongation growth and through extensive aeration of submerged plant parts by way of internal and external air spaces. The second adaptation is a metabolic one which includes the efficient use of carbohydrate resources and maintenance of energy charge when the cells do become anaerobic. The mainly ethanolic fermentation pathway found in anaerobic rice avoids acidification of the cytoplasm and thereby contributes to the maintenance of cell integrity. Genetic analysis indicates that the submergence tolerance trait, which is based on metabolic changes, is encoded by only one or a few as yet unidentified gene(s). Identifying these genes is a major goal in anaerobic stress research.
11016404	Highly purified plasma membranes were isolated by aqueous two-phase partitioning from rice (Oryza sativa) seedling roots. The effects of lanthanum chloride (LaCl3) on the activities of lipid peroxidation, the redox system and H+-ATPase, Ca2+-ATPase of plasma membranes were studied. The lipid peroxidation of plasma membranes could be depressed by certain low concentrations of LaCl3 and enhanced by high concentrations of LaCl3, while the lipid peroxidation was also dependent on the plasma membrane protein and incubation time. The relative activity of O2 uptake of plasma membranes was inhibited by all tested LaCl3 concentrations. In contrast, the reduction rate of Fe(CN)6(3-) by plasma membranes was stimulated below 40 microM of LaCl3, but was reduced above 60 microM of LaCl3. The relative activities of both H+-ATPase and Ca2+-ATPase increased constantly from control to LaCl3 of concentration 60 microM where the activities of both enzymes were the maximum. but decreased remarkably at 80 microM LaCl3 concentrations various LaCl3 were added to culture solutions. In the other measurement case in which various LaCl3 concentrations were added directly to reaction medium and the plasma membrane vesicles only came from the control cultured rice seedling roots, the response of H+-ATPase activity to La3+ was similar to the response in culture solution. However, the La3+ concentration was only 20 microM when the activity of H+-ATPase was the maximum. In contrast to the case of LaCl3 addition to culture solution, Ca2+-ATPase activity was inhibited by all concentrations of La3+ which were added directly to the reaction medium. The above results revealed that REEs inhibited electron transfer from NADH to oxygen in plant plasma membranes, depressed the production of active oxygen radicals, and reduced the formation of lipid peroxides through plasma membrane lipid peroxidation. REEs ions also enhanced the H+ extrusion by both standard redox system and H+-ATPase in plasma membranes at certain concentrations. A possible role for the plant cell wall in REEs effects on plasma membranes was also suggested.
11017019
11017051	Here we describe development of transgenic elite rice lines expressing a Bt fusion gene derived from cryIA(b) and cryIA(c) under the control of rice actinI promoter. The lines used in the study were indica CMS restorer line of Minghui 63 and its derived hybrid rice Shanyou 63. The level of Bt fusion protein CryIA(b)/CryIA(c) detected in Minghui 63 (T51-1) plants was 20 ng/mg soluble protein. The Bt Shanyou 63 was field-tested in natural and repeated heavy manual infestation of two lepidopteran insects, leaffolder and yellow stem borer. The transgenic hybrid plants showed high protection against both insect pests without reduced yield.
11018684	Plasma homocysteine has been reported to be useful in the evaluation of patients with suspected vitamin B12 or folate deficiency. In November 1998, Canada began its mandatory fortification of all flour, and some corn and rice products, with folic acid. We evaluated the status of folate and vitamin B12 in Ontario since this fortification program began, and also studied the role of plasma homocysteine in the assessment of vitamin B12 deficiency since that time. A retrospective cross-sectional study design was performed using a community database of all Ontario samples analyzed by MDS Laboratories, a major provider of diagnostic laboratory services in Canada. All consecutive single-patient fasting samples for plasma homocysteine collected between January 1 and September 30, 1999 were included, as well as corresponding red cell folate and serum B12 concentrations. Data for serum folate were included when available. Descriptive statistics included the arithmetic and geometric means for each measure, as well as the lower and upper centile values. After excluding cases with a concomitant serum creatinine > 120 micromol/L or red cell folate < 215 nmol/L, we established the test properties of a plasma homocyteine level of 15 micromol/L or greater for the diagnosis of "low" (< 120 pmol/L) or "indeterminate" (i.e., between 120 and 150 pmol/L) serum vitamin B12 concentrations. The mean age of all subjects was 58.4 years (95% CI 57.4 to 59.4). Plasma homocysteine samples were obtained from 403 males (56.7%) and 308 females. The geometric mean homocysteine concentration for the entire population was 8.3 micromol/L, and was significantly higher among males (9.3 micromol/L) than females (8.3 micromol/L) (unpaired t-test: 2-p < 0.0001). The geometric mean serum folate concentration was significantly higher in females (35.8 nmol/L) than males (33.6 nmol/L) (2-p < 0.0001), as were the mean red cell folate levels (females 966.8 nmol/L, males 949.3 nmol/L; 2-p < 0.0001). Serum vitamin B12 concentrations were available for 692 subjects, with a geometric mean of 322.0 pmol/L. Again, mean vitamin B12 was higher in females (332.5 pmol/L) than males (314.3 pmol/L) (2-p < 0.0001). The fifth centile for vitamin B12 was 134.6 pmol/L. A plasma homocysteine concentration > 15 micromol/L did not discriminate between cobalamin concentrations below versus above 120 pmol/L (positive and negative predictive values 7.4% and 97.2%, respectively), nor did it discriminate "indeterminate" B12 levels between 120 and 150 pmol/L (positive and negative predictive values 6.3% and 94.0%, respectively). In a large select group of Ontarians, serum and red cell folate concentrations appear to be higher than expected, possibly due to a recent national folate fortification programme; cobalamin levels are no higher than expected. Given our inability to detect mild B12 deficiency using such indicators as plasma homocysteine, and considering the substantial growth in the elderly segment of the Canadian population, occult cobalamin deficiency could become a common disorder. Accordingly, we recommend either consideration of the addition of vitamin B12 to the current folate fortification programme, and/or the development of better methods for the detection of cobalamin deficiency.
11019388	We examined dietary intakes among 69 people of three ethnic groups (Yao Chinese, Zhung Chinese and Han Chinese) in the autonomous country of Bama in China where many elderly people have a long life span in 1998. Dietary intake was evaluated using carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios of human hair (delta 13C, delta 15N) standardized by standard gas. The distributions of delta 13C in Yao Chinese and Han Chinese were scattered from -21 to -17/1000, which were close to that of C4 plants such as corn and millet. The distribution of delta 13C in Zhung Chinese was located from -25 to -22/1000, which was near that of C3 plants such as rice, wheat and potato. These values showed a much wider range when compared with delta 13C in Chinese living in urban areas. On the other hand, delta 15N in each group was distributed in the area ranged from 8 to 11/1000. The result of delta 13C was consistent with data obtained from a nutritional survey, but that of delta 15N was a little higher than expected. The carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios of human hair among three ethnic groups showed characteristic distributions, although the relation between these isotope ratios and longevity is uncertain.
11020085	The convenience and appeal of battered or breaded products have resulted in a sales increase of 100% since 1980. Because of the rapid growth of the Asian-American population and increasing consumption of rice and rice products, rice flour is a logical alternative for wheat flour in traditional batter formulation. The effects of ingredients used in rice flour-based batters on adhesion characteristic for deep-fat fried chicken drumsticks were studied by laser scanning confocal microscopy (LSCM) and texture analysis. Raw chicken drumsticks were predusted with egg albumin powder before dipping into batters prepared from combinations of rice flour, yellow corn flour, oxidized cornstarch, methylcellulose, or xanthan gum. The drumsticks were fried at 175+/-5 C until the internal temperature reached at least 71 C. For LSCM, samples were fixed overnight and were sectioned by vibratome (200 microm) before viewing. Batter adhesion was determined using an attachment specifically designed for chicken drumsticks. Microstructural analysis showed that batter formulated with a 50:50 mixture of rice and corn flours adhered better to drumsticks than batter with other rice flour ratios. Xanthan gum (0.2%) or methylcellulose (0.3%) alone had poor adhesion to chicken skin. However, when combined with other ingredients, xanthan gum increased the amount of batter pick-up before frying by increasing viscosity. Egg albumin significantly facilitated batter adhesion. The results from texture analysis supported the microstructural studies. As rice flour ratio increased from 50 to 70%, the binding force decreased. Rice flour showed potential as an alternative to wheat flour for batter formulas when the appropriate levels of oxidized starch, xanthan gum, and methylcellulose were included in the formulation.
11021637	The expression of alpha-amylase in aleurone layers of barley is known to be induced by gibberellin A3 (GA). In the present study, gibbestatin B (GNB) was isolated from Streptomyces sp. C-39 as an inhibitor of the GA-induced expression of alpha-amylase in barley and rice, with IC50 values of 125 and 70 microM, respectively. GNB suppressed accumulation of GA-induced barley high-pI type B and rice RAmylA alpha-amylase transcripts. However, GNB showed no inhibitory activity on GUS expression in transgenic tobacco harboring the auxin-inducible par B promoter:: GUS fusion gene. The transcription of an abscisic acid (ABA)-inducible gene, HVA1, was unaffected by GNB. In addition, GNB prevented aleurone cells from cell death induced by GA. In tobacco and Arabidopsis plants, GNB suppressed the germination and retarded the growth of seedlings without toxicity. The growth of gai, spy and abi mutants was also retarded by GNB. Normal plants treated with GA-biosynthesis inhibitors and GA-defective and GA-signaling mutants normally have dwarf dark green leaves. However, dwarfed healthy green leaves were observed in normal plants treated with GNB. GA-induced stem elongation of plants was also detected in the presence of GNB. These analyses indicate that GNB inhibits the GA-induced expression of alpha-amylase by regulating one of the steps involved in ABA signaling, but not by acting as a weak ABA analog.
11022873	Our laboratory has previously reported that the hypolipidemic effect of rice bran oil (RBO) is not entirely explained by its fatty acid composition. Although RBO has up to three times more serum cholesterol-raising saturated fatty acids (SATS) than some unsaturated vegetable oils, we hypothesized that its greater content of the unsaponifiables would compensate for its high SATS and yield comparable cholesterol-lowering properties to other vegetable oils with less SATS. To study the comparative effects of different unsaturated vegetable oils on serum lipoprotein levels, nine cynomologus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) were fed diets, for four weeks, in a Latin square design, containing rice bran, canola or corn oils (as 20% of energy) in a basal mixture of other fats to yield a final dietary fat concentration of 30% of energy. All animals were fed a baseline diet containing 36% of energy as fat with 15% SATS, 15% monounsaturated fatty acids (MONOS) and 6% polyunsaturated fatty acids (POLYS). Despite the lower SATS and higher MONOS content of canola oil and the higher POLYS content of corn oil, RBO produced similar reductions in serum total cholesterol (TC) (-25%) and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) (-30%). In addition, as compared to the baseline diet, the reduction in serum TC and LDL-C cholesterol with RBO was not accompanied by reductions in high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) which occurred with the other two dietary oils. Using predictive equations developed from data gathered from several studies with non-human primates, we noted that the observed serum TC and LDL-C lowering capabilities of the RBO diet were in excess of those predicted based on the fatty acid composition of RBO. These studies suggest that non-fatty acid components (unsaponifiables) of RBO can contribute significantly to its cholesterol-lowering capability.
1102561	A new medium composed of "cream of rice" infusion, oxgall, Tween 80, and agar is described for the sequential development of germ tubes and chlamydospores by Candida albicans. The procedure used (Dalmau's technique) is an improvement over the fluid substrate procedures previously advocated for germ tube formation. That the same preparation is then used for chlamydospore production is of practical importance for the clinical mycology laboratory.
11027041	Randomly selected samples of three popular commercial brands of Basmati rice (designated as A, B and C) available in Mumbai city were studied with respect to their proximate composition and differences in their quality evaluated in terms of length by breadth and elongation ratio, differential length by breadth ratio, water uptake, loss of solids in cooking water, swelling index and volume expansion ratio. The l/b ratio and elongation ratio varied between 4.47 to 4.81 and 1.45 to 1.59 respectively. The differential length by breadth ratio showed a wide variation from 5.88 to 9.48 among the three brands studied. Brand A recorded the highest length by breadth and elongation ratio whereas brand C recorded the highest differential length by breadth ratio. The water uptake values and the loss of solids in the cooking gruel varied between 172 to 262 and 0.87 to 2.70 (g/100 g of rice) respectively, among the three commercial brands. The swelling index and the volume expansion ratio did not show much variation among the three brands ranging between 28 to 31 for the former and 2.00 to 2.21 for the latter. Based on the differential length by breadth ratio, water uptake and swelling index values, which are the most reliable quality indices; brand C was found to be the best followed by brands A and B. The study of the texture of the cooked rice grains indicated that brand C had the softest grains, which was in conformity with the findings in cooking quality characteristics.
11027362	Previously, we reported that the rice dwarf mutant, d1, is defective in the alpha subunit of the heterotrimeric G protein (Galpha). In the present study, gibberellin (GA) signaling in d1 and the role of the Galpha protein in the GA-signaling pathway were investigated. Compared with the wild type, GA induction of alpha-amylase activity in aleurone cells of d1 was greatly reduced. Relative to the wild type, the GA(3)-treated aleurone layer of d1 had lower expression of Ramy1A, which encodes alpha-amylase, and OsGAMYB, which encodes a GA-inducible transcriptional factor, and no increase in expression of Ca(2 +)-ATPase. However, in the presence of high GA concentrations, alpha-amylase induction occurred even in d1. The GA sensitivity of second leaf sheath elongation in d1 was similar to that of the wild type in terms of dose responsiveness, but the response of internode elongation to GA was much lower in d1. Furthermore, Os20ox expression was up-regulated, and the GA content was elevated in the stunted internodes of d1. All these results suggest that d1 affects a part of the GA-signaling pathway, namely the induction of alpha-amylase in the aleurone layer and internode elongation. In addition, a double mutant between d1 and another GA-signaling mutant, slr, revealed that SLR is epistatic to the D1, supporting that the Galpha protein is involved in GA signaling. However, the data also provide evidence for the presence of an alternative GA-signaling pathway that does not involve the Galpha protein. It is proposed that GA signaling via the Galpha protein may be more sensitive than that of the alternative pathway, as indicated by the low GA responsiveness of this Galpha-independent pathway.
11027709	It is known that alcoholic fermentation is important for survival of plants under anaerobic conditions. Acetaldehyde, one of the intermediates of alcoholic fermentation, is not only reduced by alcohol dehydrogenase but also can be oxidized by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH). To determine whether ALDH plays a role in anaerobic metabolism in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Nipponbare), we characterized a cDNA clone encoding mitochondrial ALDH from rice (Aldh2a). Analysis of sub-cellular localization of ALDH2a protein using green fluorescent protein and an in vitro ALDH assay using protein extracts from Escherichia coli cells that overexpressed ALDH2a indicated that ALDH2a functions in the oxidation of acetaldehyde in mitochondria. A Southern-blot analysis indicated that mitochondrial ALDH is encoded by at least two genes in rice. We found that the Aldh2a mRNA was present at high levels in leaves of dark-grown seedlings, mature leaf sheaths, and panicles. It is interesting that expression of the rice Aldh2a gene, unlike the expression of the tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Aldh2a gene, was induced in rice seedlings by submergence. Experiments with ruthenium red, which is a blocker of Ca(2+) fluxes in rice as well as maize (Zea mays), suggest that the induction of expression of Adh1 and Pdc1 by low oxygen stress is regulated by elevation of the cytosolic Ca(2+) level. However, the induction of Aldh2a gene expression may not be controlled by the cytosolic Ca(2+) level elevation. A possible involvement of ALDH2a in the submergence tolerance of rice is discussed.
11027711	In deepwater rice (Oryza sativa), adventitious root primordia initiate at the nodes as part of normal development. Emergence of the roots is dependent on flooding of the plant and is mediated by ethylene action. Root growth was preceded by the induced death of epidermal cells of the node external to the tip of the root primordium. Cell death proceeded until the epidermis split open. Through this crack the root eventually emerged. Induced death was confined to nodal epidermal cells covering the tip of the primordia. Our results suggest that this process facilitates adventitious root emergence and prevents injury to the growing root. Cell death was inducible not only by submergence but also by application of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, the natural precursor of ethylene and it was suppressed in the presence of 2,5-norbornadiene (bicyclo[2.2.1]hepta-2,5-diene), an inhibitor of ethylene action. Adventitious root growth and epidermal cell death are therefore linked to the ethylene signaling pathway, which is activated in response to low oxygen stress.
11027714	Sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS) is one of the key regulatory enzymes in carbon assimilation and partitioning in plants. SPS plays a central role in the production of sucrose in photosynthetic cells and in the conversion of starch or fatty acids into sucrose in germinating seeds. To explore the mechanisms that regulate the tissue-specific and developmental distribution of SPS, the expression pattern of rice (Oryza sativa) sps1 (GenBank accession no. U33175) was examined by in situ reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and the expression directed by the sps1 promoter using the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene. It was found that the expression of the rice sps1 gene is limited to mesophyll cells in leaves, the scutellum of germinating seedlings, and pollen of immature inflorescences. During leaf development, the sps1 promoter directs a basipetal pattern of expression that coincides with the distribution of SPS activity during the leaf sink-to-source transition. It was also found that during the vegetative part of the growth cycle, SPS expression and enzymatic activity are highest in the youngest fully expanded leaf. Additionally, it was observed that the expression of the sps1 promoter is regulated by light and dependent on plastid development in photosynthetic tissues, whereas expression in scutellum is independent of both light and plastid development.
11029700	cDNAs encoding cyclin H homologs were isolated from poplar (Populus tremula X tremuloides) and rice (Oryza sativa) plants, and were designated Pt;cycH;1 and Os;cycH;1, respectively. The deduced amino-acid sequences showed 40-60% similarity to human cyclin H and Schizosaccharomyces pombe Mcs2, with higher similarity in the cyclin box region. While Pt;cycH;1 and Os;cycH;1 were expressed in all tissues examined, the transcripts accumulated abundantly in dividing cells. Expression of Os;cycH;1 was abundant in the S-phase in partially synchronized suspension cells, and was induced by submergence in internodes of deepwater rice. A yeast two-hybrid assay demonstrated that both Pt;CycH;1 and Os;CycH;1 were able to interact with rice R2 kinase, which is structurally and functionally similar to cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)-activating kinase (CAK) of vertebrates. Moreover, an in vitro pull-down assay showed that Os;CycH;1 specifically bound to R2 but not to other rice CDKs. When R2 was expressed in budding yeast CAK mutant, the suppression activity in terms of temperature-sensitivity was enhanced by co-expression with Os;cycH;1. Furthermore, in vitro kinase assay indicated that the kinase activities of R2 on CDKs and the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II were markedly elevated by binding to Os;CycH;1. Our results suggest that cyclin H is a regulatory subunit of CAK, which positively controls CDK- and CTD-kinase activities in plant cells.
11030060	Schistosomiasis and malaria constitute major health problems in Madagascar. The main objectives of the national schistosomiasis control programme--launched in 1998--are to improve knowledge about the modes of transmission of the disease and conduct mass treatment in hyperendemic areas, so as to lower incidence rates. A Geographic Information System (GIS) was established aiming to conduct a series of remote sensing studies based on digital image processing and analysis from Landsat TM and panchromatic Spot. The importance of local environmental and geographic characteristics in the Ihosy region such as proximity to roads and water were assessed by spatial analysis in order to construct a predictive model of Schistosoma mansoni endemicity. Unstable transmission in the Central Highlands of Madagascar caused severe outbreaks of malaria in the 1980s. Attempts to prevent such events reoccurring have been highlighted in the national malaria control programme. Thanks to intense vector control measures introduced in the area over a five-year period, a marked decrease in incidence of malaria was observed. This region borders on the Highlands as well as southern areas, allowing for vector control evaluation. The GIS and remote sensing system were applied to analyse ricefield areas, where the main vector are Anopheles funestus. Rice-field surfaces were statistically linked with abundance of vectors evaluated by entomological parametres.
11030545	Rice is the only cereal in which germination and coleoptile elongation occur in hypoxia or anoxia. Little is known of the molecular basis directly underlying coleoptile cell extension. In this paper, we describe the expression of alpha-expansin genes in embryos during seed development and young seedlings grown under various oxygen concentrations. The genes Os-EXP2 and Os-EXP1 were predominantly expressed in the developing seeds, mainly in newly developed leaves, coleoptiles, and seminal roots. These expansins expressed in the developing seeds may give cells the potential to expand after seed imbibition begins. In coleoptiles, Os-EXP4 and Os-EXP2 mRNAs were greatly induced by submergence, while they were weakly detected in aerobic or anoxic conditions. Under submerged soil conditions, the signals hybridized with probes Os-EXP4 and Os-EXP2 in coleoptiles were strongest when coleoptiles elongated in the water layer. These data show that expansin gene expression is highly correlated with coleoptile elongation in response to oxygen concentrations. The Os-EXP4 gene was also expressed in leaves, mesocotyls, and coleorhizas of young seedlings. The growth of these tissues was also correlated with the presence of expansins. Therefore, the evidence derived from this study clearly demonstrates that expansins are indispensable for the growing tissues of rice seedlings.
11031346	Cereals are the most important nutritional component in the human diet. Food-induced allergic reactions to these substances therefore have serious implications, and exhaustive diagnosis is required. Such diagnosis is still difficult because of the incomplete knowledge about major cereal allergens. In particular, few food-induced allergic reactions to maize have been reported, and no information on the allergenic proteins is available. Having observed several anaphylactic reactions to maize, we planned a study to identify maize major allergens and cross-reactivity with other cereals, as well as to peach because the majority of patients also reacted to Prunoideae fruits. Twenty-two patients with systemic symptoms after maize ingestion and positive skin prick test responses and serum-specific IgE antibodies to maize were selected. The IgE-reactivity pattern was identified by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. The major allergen identified was then purified by HPLC and characterized by mass spectrometry, determination of the isoelectric point value, and N-terminal amino acid sequencing. Sera from 19 (86%) of the 22 patients recognized a 9-kd protein, thus confirming this as the maize major allergen. This protein had an isoelectric point of greater than 9, a molecular mass of 9047.0 d, and no glycosylation. Determination of its N-terminal sequence showed that it was a lipid transfer protein (LTP). By using immunoblotting-inhibition experiments, we demonstrated that the LTP cross-reacts completely with rice and peach LTPs but not with wheat or barley LTPs. N-terminal sequence of the 16-kd allergen (recognized by 36% of patients) showed it to be the maize inhibitor of trypsin. This protein cross-reacts completely with grass, wheat, barley, and rice trypsin inhibitors. The major allergen of maize is an LTP with a molecular weight of 9 kd that is highly homologous with the peach LTP, the major allergen of the Prunoideae subfamily.
11031664	The temporal fluctuation of the average slope of a ricepile model is investigated. It is found that the power spectrum S(f) scales as 1/f alpha with alpha approximately 1.3 when grains of rice are added only to one end of the pile. If grains are randomly added to the pile, the power spectrum exhibits 1/f2 behavior. The profile fluctuations of the pile under different driving mechanisms are also discussed.
11032368	A hammerhead ribozyme (Rz) with long hybridizing arms targeting the mRNA of rice dwarf virus (RDV) segment 5 and a mutated nonfunctional ribozyme (mRz) were constructed. As predicted, Rz transcribed in vitro cleaved the target mRNA of RDV segment 5 into two fragments of 138 and 238 nucleotides in length. The Rz and mRz genes were each placed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter and used to transform Japonica rice variety 'Tongling No. 1' via Agrobacterium tumefaciens. A total of 32 independent lines containing Rz or mRz was obtained as demonstrated by Southern blot analysis. Challenge inoculation with RDV viruliferous leafhoppers (Nephotettix cincticeps) showed that T1 plants containing the Rz transgene displayed high resistance or delayed and attenuated viral symptoms. In contrast, transgenic lines expressing mRz showed severe symptoms similar to the control plants transformed with the vector alone. These results suggest that Rz confers RDV resistance in transgenic rice. Genomic DNA PCR analysis confirmed that all of the examined T6 progeny plants contained the Rz transgene. However, accumulation of the Rz transcripts was detectable by RT-PCR only in the plants that were resistant to RDV. This suggested that loss of RDV resistance in progeny plants containing the Rz transgene may result from silencing of the Rz transgene.
11032371	Onset of flowering, or heading date, is an important agronomic trait of cereal crops such as rice and early-heading varieties are required for certain regions in which rice is cultivated. Since the floral control gene LEAFY from Arabidopsis can dramatically accelerate flowering in dictoyledonous plants, the usefulness of LEAFY for manipulating heading date in rice has been tested. Constitutive expression of LEAFY from the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter caused early flowering in transgenic rice, with a heading date that was 26-34 days earlier than that of wild-type plants. Early flowering was accompanied by a small yield penalty and some panicle abnormality. These observations suggest that floral regulatory genes from Arabidopsis are useful tools for heading date improvement in cereal crops.
11033986	To explore the relative importance of a food's macronutrient composition, energy value, energy density, fiber content, weight, volume, sensory properties and rheology on hunger and food intake. Preloads of peanuts, peanut butter (rheology control), almonds (tree nut), chestnuts (macronutrient control), chocolate (sensory control), rice cakes (volume control), pickles (weight control) and no load (time control) were consumed by subjects in random order at weekly intervals and hunger was assessed over the subsequent 180 min. Free-feeding energy and macronutrient intake were monitored 24 h before and following preload ingestion. Twelve male and 12 female healthy, normal weight (12-28% body fat), adults (mean (s.d.) age 22 +/- 2.5 y) with low dietary restraint. Hunger ratings following consumption of the 2092 kJ (500 kcal) preloads of peanuts, peanut butter, almonds, chestnuts and chocolate were significantly lower than the low energy preloads or no preload condition, but with the exception of peanut butter, did not vary from each other. The rate of hunger recovery was consistent across all preloads so the overall impact of each food on hunger was determined by the initial drop it evoked. Total energy, but not macronutrient, compensation was observed with all preloads. Consequently, the fatty acid profile of the total diet reflected the composition of the preloads. Energy content may be the primary determinant of a food's impact on hunger. Because macronutrient compensation is weak, a dietary supplement or substitute may influence the daily dietary nutrient profile.
11036074	Nuclear proteins from rice (Oryza sativa) were identified that bind specifically to a rice tungro bacilliform virus promoter region containing a vascular bundle expression element (VBE). One set of proteins of 29, 33, and 37 kDa, present in shoot and cell suspension extracts but hardly detectable in root extracts, bound to a site containing the sequence AGAAGGACCAGA within the VBE, which also contains two CpG and one CpNpG potential methylation motifs. Binding by these proteins was determined to be cytosine methylation-independent. However, a novel protein present in all analyzed extracts bound specifically to the methylated VBE. A region of at least 49 nucleotides overlapping the VBE and complete cytosine methylation of the three Cp(Np)G motifs was required for efficient binding of this methylated VBE-binding protein (MVBP).
11038054	This study deals with the cloning and characterization of monosaccharide transporter cDNAs in rice. OsMST1-3 (Oryza sativa monosaccharide transporters 1-3) have two sets of putative six transmembrane domains separated by a central long hydrophilic region. Heterologous expression of OsMST3 in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae indicated that OsMST3 has transport activity for some monosaccharides in an energy-dependent H+ co-transport manner. Northern blot and in situ hybridization analyses showed that OsMST3 mRNA is detectable in leaf blades, leaf sheaths, calli and roots, especially the xylem as well as in sclerenchyma cells in the root. These results suggested that OsMST3 is involved in the accumulation of monosaccharides required for cell wall synthesis at the stage of cell thickening.
11038058	To investigate the role of Ser162 in phosphorylation-dependent regulation of maize sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS) activities in rice, transgenic rice plants expressing wild-type or mutagenized maize SPS were produced. Our results indicate that Ser162 was responsible for overproduction-induced inactivation of SPS protein and for light/ dark modulation of this protein in vivo.
11038567	The genetic basis of heterosis was investigated in an elite rice hybrid by using a molecular linkage map with 150 segregating loci covering the entire rice genome. Data for yield and three traits that were components of yield were collected over 2 years from replicated field trials of 250 F(2:3) families. Genotypic variations explained from about 50% to more than 80% of the total variation. Interactions between genotypes and years were small compared with the main effects. A total of 32 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were detected for the four traits; 12 were observed in both years and the remaining 20 were detected in only one year. Overdominance was observed for most of the QTLs for yield and also for a few QTLs for the component traits. Correlations between marker heterozygosity and trait expression were low, indicating that the overall heterozygosity made little contribution to heterosis. Digenic interactions, including additive by additive, additive by dominance, and dominance by dominance, were frequent and widespread in this population. The interactions involved large numbers of marker loci, most of which individually were not detectable on single-locus basis; many interactions among loci were detected in both years. The results provide strong evidence that epistasis plays a major role as the genetic basis of heterosis.
1104142	The diet of the Japanese people may be an important factor contributing to the high morbidity and morality rates of stomach cancer in Japan. Heavy rice consumption plus many salty foods in the diet are characteristic of the traditional eating habits in Japan. Fat intake and use of alcohol and tobacco are also considered possible factors. As the diet of the Japanese people changes to a more Western diet, there may be a concomitant change in the incidence of stomach cancer.
11041951	Electromigration of hydrogen in YH(3-delta) is studied by exploiting the H concentration dependence of the optical transmission of YH(3-delta). We find the effective valence Z* of H in YH(3-delta) to be negative. Its value is dominated by a huge wind-force-like term, i.e., Z* approximately K/rho, with K approximately -60 mOmega cm. This value is 3 orders of magnitude larger than typical for H in metals. In an Arrhenius plot, the ratio of hydrogen and electron fluxes extrapolates to unity at infinite temperature, suggesting a one-to-one correlation of hydrogen and electron hopping. We discuss our results in the light of strong electron correlation theories which predict each proton to bind two electrons in a sort of Zhang-Rice singlet.
11046310	We report the results of extensive molecular dynamics simulations of the reconstructive hexagonal to square lattice conversion in bilayer colloid systems. Two types of interparticle potential were used to represent the colloid-colloid interactions in the suspension. One potential, due to Marcus and Rice, is designed to describe the interaction of sterically stabilized colloid particles. This potential has a term that represents the attraction between colloid particles when there is incipient overlap between the stabilizing brushes on their surfaces, a (soft repulsion) term that represents the entropy cost associated with interpenetration of the stabilizing brushes, and a term that represents core-core repulsion. The other potential we used is an almost hard core repulsion with continuous derivatives. Our results clearly show that the character of the reconstructive hexagonal to square lattice conversion in bilayer colloid systems is potential dependent. For a system with colloid-colloid interactions of the Marcus-Rice type, the packing of particles in the square array exhibits a large interlayer lattice spacing, with the particles located at the minima of the attractive well. In this case the hexagonal to square lattice transition is first order. For a system with hard core colloid-colloid interactions there are two degenerate stable intermediate phases, linear and zigzag rhombic, that are separated from the square lattice by strong first order transitions, and from the hexagonal lattice by either weak first or second order transitions.
11048726	Rice seeds, a rich reserve of starch and protein, are a major food source in many countries. Unlike the seeds of other plants, which typically accumulate one major type of storage protein, rice seeds use two major classes, prolamines and globulin-like glutelins. Both storage proteins are synthesized on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and translocated to the ER lumen, but are then sorted into separate intracellular compartments. Prolamines are retained in the ER lumen as protein bodies whereas glutelins are transported and stored in protein storage vacuoles. Mechanisms responsible for the retention of prolamines within the ER lumen and their assembly into intracisternal inclusion granules are unknown, but the involvement of RNA localization has been suggested. Here we show that the storage protein RNAs are localized to distinct ER membranes and that prolamine RNAs are targeted to the prolamine protein bodies by a mechanism based on RNA signal(s), a process that also requires a translation initiation codon. Our results indicate that the ER may be composed of subdomains that specialize in the synthesis of proteins directed to different compartments of the plant endomembrane system.
11048853	Multiple units of Standard Reference Materials (SRMs) 1566 Oyster Tissue, 1567 Wheat Flour, 1568 Rice Flour, and 1570 Trace Elements in Spinach, produced by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST, then the National Bureau of Standards), were analyzed 17-20 years after the original certification dates and 12-15 years after the certificates became invalid. Instrumental neutron activation analysis and thermal neutron prompt gamma-ray activation analysis were used to measure mass fractions for 27 elements in these SRMs to revalidate them for use in quality assurance (QA) programs required for food analysis programs within the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. With the exception of Se in SRM 1567, all element mass fractions were in agreement with certified values and literature data. Some evidence of B loss from SRM 1568 was observed. These materials were judged to be suitable for continued use in QA programs. Findings showed that these matrixes exhibited stability of moisture, mass fraction, and weight basis for far longer (> or =15 years) than was indicated by the 5-year validity statement on the NIST Certificates of Analysis.
11050182	Sucrose-6(F)-phosphate phosphohydrolase (SPP; EC) catalyzes the final step in the pathway of sucrose biosynthesis and is the only enzyme of photosynthetic carbon assimilation for which the gene has not been identified. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity from rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaves and partially sequenced. The rice leaf enzyme is a dimer with a native molecular mass of 100 kDa and a subunit molecular mass of 50 kDa. The enzyme is highly specific for sucrose 6(F)-phosphate with a K(m) of 65 microM and a specific activity of 1250 micromol min(-1) mg(-1) protein. The activity is dependent on Mg(2+) with a remarkably low K(a) of 8-9 microM and is weakly inhibited by sucrose. Three peptides from cleavage of the purified rice SPP with endoproteinase Lys-C showed similarity to the deduced amino acid sequences of three predicted open reading frames (ORF) in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome and one in the genome of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803, as well as cDNA clones from Arabidopsis, maize, and other species in the GenBank database of expressed sequence tags. The putative maize SPP cDNA clone contained an ORF encoding a 420-amino acid polypeptide. Heterologous expression in Escherichia coli showed that this cDNA clone encoded a functional SPP enzyme. The 260-amino acid N-terminal catalytic domain of the maize SPP is homologous to the C-terminal region of sucrose-phosphate synthase. A PSI-BLAST search of the GenBank database indicated that the maize SPP is a member of the haloacid dehalogenase hydrolase/phosphatase superfamily.
11051360	The aims of this study were 1) to document the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values of the rice breath hydrogen test for small intestinal bacterial overgrowth; 2) to determine the possible influence of concurrent gastric bacterial overgrowth and gastroduodenal pH on the efficacy of this test; and 3) to investigate whether reliability is limited by an inability of small intestinal luminal flora to ferment rice or its product of hydrolysis, maltose. Twenty adult subjects were investigated with microbiological culture of proximal small intestinal aspirate and a 3-g/kg rice breath hydrogen test. Gastroduodenal pH, the presence or absence of gastric bacterial overgrowth, and the in vitro capability of small intestinal luminal flora to ferment rice and maltose, its product of hydrolysis, were determined. Sensitivity of the rice breath hydrogen test for small intestinal bacterial overgrowth was 33% and remained low even when subjects with small intestinal overgrowth with oropharyngeal-type (38%) and colonic-type flora (20%) and those with concurrent small intestinal and gastric bacterial overgrowth (40%) were considered separately. Sensitivity remained suboptimal despite favorable gastroduodenal luminal pH and documented ability of bacterial isolates to ferment rice and maltose in vitro. Specificity of the rice breath hydrogen test for small intestinal bacterial overgrowth was 91%. Positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and predictive accuracy were 75%, 63%, and 65%, respectively. Clinical value of the rice breath hydrogen test for detecting small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is limited. The rice breath hydrogen test is not a suitable alternative to small intestinal intubation and culture of secretions for the detection of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth.
11051594	The zinc nutritional status in south Koreans was established by evaluation of zinc, calcium and phytate intakes, the molar ratio of phytate:zinc, and the millimolar ratio of phytate x calcium:zinc. The intakes of iron and magnesium were also estimated. Sampling was designed so that it was representative of the national population. Two-day food records were used for the calculation of nutrient intakes, using food consumption data from the 1995 National Nutrition Survey ('95NNS) for South Korea. Daily intakes of zinc and calcium were estimated to be 10.1 mg/d and 426.5 mg/d, respectively, and those of iron and magnesium were 15.2 mg/d and 268.0 mg/d, respectively. The estimated daily phytate intake was 1676.6 mg/d. The ratio of phytate:zinc was 15.9 mol/d and that of phytate x calcium:zinc was 168.9 mmol/d. The ratio in millimoles per 4.2 MJ (1000 kcal) of phytate x calcium:zinc was 91.8. The major food groups for zinc intake were meat, poultry and their products (43%), and cereals and grain products (18%). Sixty-two percent of zinc was from animal food sources. Cereal and grain products supplied most of the phytate intake (46%) followed by seasonings, fruits, and legumes and their products. The major food source of phytate was rice (39%). The results of the study raise concern about the suboptimal zinc status in relation to the Western diet.
11051610	Attempts were made to promote germination of natural aged rice seeds by treating them with lanthanum nitrate. In tests to measure the germination rate, germination index, and vigor index of natural aged rice seeds were found to be significantly increased by lanthanum. It is treating aged rice seed with lanthanum nitrate that enhanced the respiratory rate and activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and peroxidase, and decreased superoxide O2*- and malondidehyde contents, and therefore reduced plasma membrane permeability. It suggests that lanthanum may be used to pretreat seed before sowing.
11051720	A double haploid (DH) population and a recombinant inbred (RI) population derived from a cross between a japonica male parent Azucena and indica female parents, IR64 and IR1552 respectively, were used in both field and pot experiments for detecting QTLs and epistasis for rice panicle length in different genetic background and different environments. Panicle length (PL) was measured at maturity. QTLs for PL were detected using single marker analysis and interval mapping. Epistasis effects on the trait were also analyzed. Nine QTLs were detected in DH population, including 5 QTLs detected from field experiment and 4 from pot experiment, among them 3 QTLs mapped on chromosomes 1 and 4 were identified in both field and pot experiments. No significant epistasis effect was detected for PL. Four QTLs were detected in RI population, among them 2 from field condition and 2 from pot experiment. 6 pairs of epistasis loci were detected in RI population. One QTL mapped on chromosome 4 and two pairs of epistatic loci were detected in both field and pot experiments. One QTL on chromosome four was identified in both populations, and one marker locus RG323 on chromosome one was involved in additive effect in DH population, but epistasis effects in RI population.
11052195	Hypersensitive response-assisting protein (HRAP) is a novel plant protein that can intensify the harpinPSS-mediated hypersensitive response (HR) in harpinPSS-insensitive plants, such as the vegetative stage of sweet pepper. In this report, we identified a HRAP cDNA clone from sweet pepper (Capsicum annuum cv. ECW). The sequence of this cDNA clone showed no appreciable similarity to any other known sequences. However, it contained three positively charged regions, a typical signal peptide and a cAMP-dependent phosphorylation site. The hrap mRNA accumulated preferentially during the incompatible interaction of sweet pepper leaves with a pathogenic bacterium, Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. When the hrap gene transcription level was high, the sweet pepper leaves readily expressed the harpinPSS-mediated HR. The hrap gene transcription level in sweet pepper was also higher during the reproductive stage than during the vegetative stage. The HRAP distribution in an individual plant and different plant species was investigated. We found that all the organs of sweet pepper, except fruit, could express two different forms of HRAP. Moreover, the hrap gene was presented in many plant species including tobacco, Arabidopsis, and rice. In conclusion, our results suggest that the hrap gene is widely distributed throughout the plant world and its transcription level correlates with plant sensitivity to harpinPSS. The interaction between HRAP and harpinPSS reveals a novel way to interpret the interaction mechanism between plants and bacterial pathogens.
11052205	We introduced the oat adc cDNA into rice under the control of the constitutive maize ubiquitin 1 promoter. We studied molecularly and biochemically sixteen independent transgenic plant lines. Significant increases in mRNA levels, ADC enzyme activity and polyamines were measured in transgenic callus. These increases were not maintained in vegetative tissue or seeds in regenerated plants, with the exception of one lineage. This particular lineage showed very significant increases in putrescine preferentially in seeds (up to 10 times compared to wild type and controls transformed with the hpt selectable marker alone). We have demonstrated that in cereals such as rice, over-expression of the oat adc cDNA results in increased accumulation of polyamines at different stages of development. We have also demonstrated that strong constitutive promoters, such as the maize ubiquitin 1 promoter, are sufficient to facilitate heritable high-level polyamine accumulation in seed. Our results demonstrate that by screening adequate numbers of independently derived transgenic plants, it is possible to identify those individuals which express a desired phenotype or genotype.
11052519	In Asian populations, there is a high prevalence of right-sided colonic diverticulosis, the cause of which is uncertain. It is suspected that dietary habits may interact with a congenital predilection to cause this condition. To evaluate the relationship between long-term dietary habits and the prevalence of right-sided diverticulosis in the general population, we performed a retrospective case-control study. We reviewed the records of 3,105 screening colonoscopies performed on healthy, asymptomatic adults. All cases of right-sided diverticulosis were selected, and a similar number of gender-matched and age-matched controls with negative colonoscopies were randomly sampled from the same cohort. All case and control subjects were interviewed by a single-blinded nurse to establish their dietary habits during the past decade, in addition to other demographic characteristics. Based on consumption frequency, they were assigned to one of three diet classes for each of three food categories of interest: meat, vegetable, and fruit products. Staple foods such as rice were not included. Odds ratios were then calculated using multivariate conditional logistic regression and tests for trend were performed. A total of 86 cases of right-sided diverticulosis were included, whereas 106 controls were randomly selected. There was a marked association between meat consumption frequency and right-sided diverticulosis, with a trend P value of <0.01 and an odds ratio of 24.81 between the most and least frequent consumers of meat products. The prevalence of right-sided diverticulosis is strongly positively associated with past meat consumption frequency. There is no association with vegetable or fruit consumption frequency, laxative use, supplemental fiber intake, smoking, or family history.
11053146	A flash photolysis method is described for analyzing ligand binding to the new and growing group of hemoglobins which are hexacoordinate in the unligated, ferrous state. Simple analysis of a two exponential fit to time courses for CO rebinding at varying CO concentrations yields rate constants for formation and dissociation of the hexacoordinate complex, and the bimolecular rate constant for CO binding. This method was tested with a nonsymbiotic plant hemoglobin from rice for which these values had not previously been determined. For this protein, dissociation and rebinding of the hexacoordinating amino acid side chain, His(73), is rapid and similar to the rate of CO binding at high CO concentrations. These results indicate that hexacoordination must be taken into account when evaluating the affinity of hexacoordinate hemoglobins for ligands.
11053733	Washed excised roots of rice (Oryza sativa) produced H(2), CH(4) and fatty acids (millimolar concentrations of acetate, propionate, butyrate; micromolar concentrations of isovalerate, valerate) when incubated under anoxic conditions. Surface sterilization of the root material resulted in the inactivation of the production of CH(4), a strong reduction of the production of fatty acids and a transient (75 h) but complete inhibition of the production of H(2). Radioactive bicarbonate was incorporated into CH(4), acetate, propionate and butyrate. About 20-40% of the fatty acid carbon originated from CO(2) reduction. In the presence of phosphate, CH(4) was exclusively produced from H(2)/CO(2), since phosphate selectively inhibited acetoclastic methanogenesis. Acetoclastic methanogenesis was also selectively inhibited by methyl fluoride, while chloroform or 2-bromoethane sulfonate inhibited CH(4) production completely. Production of CH(4), acetate, propionate and butyrate from H(2)/CO(2) was always exergonic with Gibbs free energies <-20 kJ mol(-1) product. Chloroform inhibited the production of acetate and the incorporation of radioactive CO(2) into acetate. Simultaneously, H(2) was no longer consumed and accumulated, indicating that acetate was produced from H(2)/CO(2). Chloroform also resulted in increased production of propionate and butyrate whose formation from CO(2) became more exergonic upon addition of chloroform. Nevertheless, the incorporation of radioactive CO(2) into propionate and butyrate was inhibited by chloroform. The accumulation of propionate and butyrate in the presence of chloroform probably occurred by fermentation of organic matter, rather than by reduction of acetate and CO(2). [U-(14)C]Glucose was indeed converted to acetate, propionate, butyrate, CO(2) and CH(4). Radioactive acetate, CO(2) and CH(4) were also products of the degradation of [U-(14)C]cellulose and [U-(14)C]xylose. Addition of chloroform and methyl fluoride did not affect the product spectrum of [U-(14)C]glucose degradation. The application of combinations of selective inhibitors may be useful to elucidate anaerobic metabolic pathways in mixed microbial cultures and natural microbial communities.
11053735	We report here on novel groups of Archaea in the bacterioplankton of a small boreal forest lake studied by the culture-independent analysis of the 16S rRNA genes amplified directly from lake water in combination with fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). Polymerase chain reaction products were cloned and 28 of the 160 Archaea clones with around 900-bp-long 16S rRNA gene inserts, were sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis, including 642 Archaea sequences, confirmed that none of the freshwater clones were closely affiliated with known cultured Archaea. Twelve Archaea sequences from lake Valkea Kotinen (VAL) belonged to Group I of uncultivated Crenarchaeota and affiliated with environmental sequences from freshwater sediments, rice roots and soil as well as with sequences from an anaerobic digestor. Eight of the Crenarchaeota VAL clones formed a tight cluster. Sixteen sequences belonged to Euryarchaeota. Four of these formed a cluster together with environmental sequences from freshwater sediments and peat bogs within the order Methanomicrobiales. Five were affiliated with sequences from marine sediments situated close to marine Group II and three formed a novel cluster VAL III distantly related to the order Thermoplasmales. The remaining four clones formed a distinct clade within a phylogenetic radiation characterized by members of the orders Methanosarcinales and Methanomicrobiales on the same branch as rice cluster I, detected recently on rice roots and in anoxic bulk soil of flooded rice microcosms. FISH with specifically designed rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes revealed the presence of Methanomicrobiales in the studied lake. These observations indicate a new ecological niche for many novel 'non-extreme' environmental Archaea in the pelagic water of a boreal forest lake.
11053738	Two specific primers were developed for the amplification of 16S rRNA genes of Desulfotomaculum lineage 1 to detect members of the genus Desulfotomaculum in rice field soil. The combination of both primers in PCR allowed the specific amplification and cloning of ten 16S rDNA sequences of this group from rice paddy soil DNA extracts. The phylogenetic analysis showed that these sequences formed a deeply branching cluster within Desulfotomaculum lineage 1, together with two sequences from the database and two sequences from a hydrocarbon-contaminated aquifer. Dissimilarity values to validly described species, including recently isolated strains of Desulfotomaculum from rice paddy microcosms, were higher than 12%. Within the new cluster the cloned sequences formed three separate groups which were each represented by at least two sequences with identities of >/=99% while one sequence represented an additional group. The sequences should represent sulfate-reducing organisms because they clearly fell into the physiologically coherent group of Gram-positive sulfate reducers. The relative abundance of bacteria of the Desulfotomaculum lineage 1 in rice paddy soil and root samples was estimated with rRNA dot blot hybridizations of extracted RNA. The relative RNA content of Desulfotomaculum lineage 1 was 0.55% in the bulk soil and 1% in the rice root samples, respectively, of the total 16S rRNA content (probe Eub338). Hybridization of rRNA with a probe targeting the new cluster represented by the cloned sequences confirmed the high abundance of 16S rRNA sequences from this cluster in the rice paddy field samples. Another hybridization probe detecting Desulfotomaculum acetoxidans and two closely related Desulfotomaculum isolates from rice paddy soil indicated that these bacteria were less abundant.
11055122	Digu is one of the important genetic resources in rice breeding for resistance to blast disease in China. In this study, the disease resistance identification in the parental varieties and the population F1, F2 and B1F1 from the crosses involving Digu and four susceptible varieties was carried out by inoculation with two Chinese blast strains, ZB13, and ZB15. The results demonstrated that Digu had one dominant gene Pi-d(t) to ZB13, which had been reported by Li SG. The F2 populations of Digu and other ten different varieties with known resistance genes were inoculated with strains ZB13 and the results further demonstrated that blast resistance of Digu to strain ZB13 was controlled by one dominant resistance gene.
11055123	Nine quality characters of 3 sterile lines, 10 restorers and their 30 indica hybrid rice by NC II genetic design were studied. The results showed as follows: (1) No genetic segregation occurred in F2 grains in grain length, grain width, grain weight, brown rice% and head rice%, which indicated these traits are completely controlled by maternal plant genotypes. (2) Significant genetic segregation occurred in F2 grains in chalkiness score, amylose content, gelatinization temperature and gel consistency, which indicated the genetic expression of these traits is mainly controlled by endosperm genotypes. (3) The quality characters have relatively high heritabilities except brown rice % and chalkiness score. The genetic variation of quality characters was mainly caused by additive effect except grain weight.
11055391	Feeding studies on rice genetically modified with soybean glycinin were performed on rats for four weeks. The rats were divided into three groups, each being fed on (I) only a commercial diet, (II) this diet plus control rice and (III) this diet plus rice genetically modified with glycinin. The rats were fed with 10 g/kg-weight of rice every day by oral administration. During the test period, the rats in every group grew well without marked differences in appearance, food intake, body weight, or cumulative body weight gain. There were also no significant differences in the blood count, blood composition or internal organ weights among the rats. Necropsy at the end of the experiment indicated neither pathological symptoms nor histopathological abnormalities in the liver and kidney. Judging from these results, the rice genetically modified with glycinin is considered to have been essentially the same in nutritional and biochemical characteristics as the control rice.
11055395	The in vitro antioxidative activities of various kinds of vinegar were investigated by using a linoleic acid autoxidation model detected by the thiobarbituric acid (TBA) method and the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical system. An ethyl acetate extract of Kurosu (EK), a vinegar made from unpolished rice, exhibited the highest antioxidative activity in both systems. EK (5 mg) inhibited 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced edema formation (14%) and myeloperoxidase activity (52%, P< 0.01) in female ICR mouse skin. Furthermore, EK significantly suppressed double TPA application-induced H2O2 generation (53%, P< 0.01) and lipid peroxidation determined by the TBA-reacting substance level (95 %, P< 0.01). In a two-stage carcinogenesis experiment with dimethylbenz[a]anthracene/TPA, EK significantly reduced the number of tumors per mouse by 36% (P<0.05) at 15 weeks after promotion. These results suggest that the antitumor-promoting effect may be partially due to the antioxidative properties of EK such as the decomposition of free radicals and interference with free radical-generating leukocytes.
11055401	The complete nucleotide sequences of a cDNA (RSP1) that encodes a subtilisin-like serine protease (subtilase) of rice (Oryza sativa L.) and a gene (ASP48) for Arabidopsis subtilase were analyzed. The RSPI cDNA and ASP48 DNA encoded 736- and 757-residue pre-pro-polypeptides including a signal peptide with molecular masses of 78,668 Da and 79,414 Da, respectively. RSP1 is the first known serine protease in rice, and ASP48 is a gene for ara12 cDNA. Sequence comparison and phylogenetic analysis showed that RSP1 is distantly related to all other plant subtilases and ASP48 is closely related to a tomato subtilase, SBT1. The ASP48 gene was found to lack introns. The Arabidopsis subtilase gene appears to consist of a small gene family. The RSP1 was found to be expressed in seed and shoots of seedlings while ASP48 transcripts was found to be accumulated in immature silique and flowers, indicating that both RSP1 and ASP48 are organ-specific and may be involved in the specific proteolytic events that occur during organ development.
11055925	Temperature is an important factor controlling CH(4) production in anoxic rice soils. Soil slurries, prepared from Italian rice field soil, were incubated anaerobically in the dark at six temperatures of between 10 to 37 degrees C or in a temperature gradient block covering the same temperature range at intervals of 1 degrees C. Methane production reached quasi-steady state after 60 to 90 days. Steady-state CH(4) production rates increased with temperature, with an apparent activation energy of 61 kJ mol(-1). Steady-state partial pressures of the methanogenic precursor H(2) also increased with increasing temperature from <0.5 to 3.5 Pa, so that the Gibbs free energy change of H(2) plus CO(2)-dependent methanogenesis was kept at -20 to -25 kJ mol of CH(4)(-1) over the whole temperature range. Steady-state concentrations of the methanogenic precursor acetate, on the other hand, increased with decreasing temperature from <5 to 50 microM. Simultaneously, the relative contribution of H(2) as methanogenic precursor decreased, as determined by the conversion of radioactive bicarbonate to (14)CH(4), so that the carbon and electron flow to CH(4) was increasingly dominated by acetate, indicating that psychrotolerant homoacetogenesis was important. The relative composition of the archaeal community was determined by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of the 16S rRNA genes (16S rDNA). T-RFLP analysis differentiated the archaeal Methanobacteriaceae, Methanomicrobiaceae, Methanosaetaceae, Methanosarcinaceae, and Rice clusters I, III, IV, V, and VI, which were all present in the rice field soil incubated at different temperatures. The 16S rRNA genes of Rice cluster I and Methanosaetaceae were the most frequent methanogenic groups. The relative abundance of Rice cluster I decreased with temperature. The substrates used by this microbial cluster, and thus its function in the microbial community, are unknown. The relative abundance of acetoclastic methanogens, on the other hand, was consistent with their physiology and the acetate concentrations observed at the different temperatures, i.e., the high-acetate-requiring Methanosarcinaceae decreased and the more modest Methanosaetaceae increased with increasing temperature. Our results demonstrate that temperature not only affected the activity but also changed the structure and the function (carbon and electron flow) of a complex methanogenic system.
11056212	The short persistence of cecropin B peptide in plants, due to post-translational degradation, is a serious impediment in its effective utilization for developing bacterial resistance transgenic plants. Two DNA constructs encoding the full-length precursor of cecropin B peptide and the mature sequence of cecropin B peptide preceded by a signal peptide derived from rice chitinase gene were transformed in rice. The differences in the transcriptional levels in independent transgenic lines showed moderate to high expression of cecropin B gene that correlated well with the differences in cecropin B accumulation observed by Western blot analysis. The development of lesions resulting from infection by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae was significantly confined in the infected leaflet of transgenic lines, when compared with the control plants.
11059041	Laying performance, egg quality and carcase traits were recorded in broiler breeders (29-48 weeks of age) fed diets in which pearl millet (Pennisetum typhoides), finger millet (Eleusine coracana), foxtail millet (Setaria italica) or broken rice fully replaced yellow maize (50% of the diet) from the reference diet. Constant ratios of metabolizable energy to other nutrients were maintained in all the diets. Each diet provided 1.38 MJ metabolizable energy (ME)/bird per day to 8 replicate groups of 10 layers each, maintained in deep litter pens. The hen-day egg production and the ME required to produce 12 eggs in birds fed pearl millet or broken rice were similar (p > 0.05) to those fed on the maize diet, while birds fed foxtail millet or finger millet required more energy to produce the same number of eggs. The egg production and the efficiency of energy utilization were significantly (p < 0.05) reduced in the birds fed these two cereals. Egg quality was not affected by replacing maize with the different cereals. However, the yolk colour index was significantly (p < 0.05) reduced in the cereal-fed groups in comparison to the maize-fed birds. The gizzard and giblet weights were heavier (p < 0.05) in the birds fed foxtail millet or finger millet than in those fed broken rice. Deposition of abdominal fat and the liver fat content were significantly (p < 0.05) higher in the birds fed pearl millet than in the other groups. Depending on the local prices, the cost of feeding may be reduced considerably by using any of the cereals tested as the principal energy source in place of maize in broiler breeder diets.
11059098	N1-Phenyl-N3-aryl/aryloxymethyl[1,3,4-oxa(thia)diazol-2-yl]s ulphonyl ureas (4 and 7) were conveniently prepared from 2-aryl/aryloxymethyl- 1,3,4-oxa(thia)diazol-2-sulphonamide (3 and 6) and phenyl isothiocyanate. Sulphonamides were synthesised by the reaction of 2-aryl/aryloxymethyl-1,3,4-oxa(thia)diazol-2-sulphonyl chlorides (2 and 5) with ammonia. All the compounds have been tested for fungicidal activity against the fungal species Cephalosporium saccharii and Helminthosporium oryzae. The two species of the aquatic fungi viz. Saprolegnia parasitica and Achlya orion responsible for fish mycoses were tested and also found remarkably active. All the compounds were also tested for herbicidal activity against Digiteria ciliaris, Oryza sativa and Raphunus sativa.
11059273	The microsatellite (SSLP) marker RM262, which is tightly linked to the blast resistance gene Pi-d(t) in rice, provides means to conduct marker-aided selection in a rice breeding program. The objective of this study was to investigate the ability of this marker to select the blast resistance gene, Pi-d(t), in two crosses for rice blast resistance breeding. The products with amplified the microsatellite primers were polymorphic between the three varieties examined. To examine the power of the identified microsatellite marker in predicting the Pi-d(t) locus, we determined the genotypes of the two F2 populations at the Pi-d(t) locus by performing progeny testing for the disease respones. The results indicated an accuracy of more than 98% in identifying the resistant plants in both populations. Therefore the microsatellite marker can be utilized in marker-assisted selection and breeding for new varieties with blast resistance.
11059563	Recently, we presented evidence for the role of MGN-3, an enzymatically modified arabinoxylan extracted from rice bran, in potent activation of human natural killer (NK) cell function in vivo and in vitro. In the current study, we examined the mechanism by which MGN-3 elevated NK cytotoxic activity. We did this by testing the action of MGN-3 on the levels of both tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) secretions and MGN-3 function on the expression of key cell surface receptors. Peripheral blood lymphocytes were treated with MGN-3 at concentrations of 0.1 mg/ml and 1 mg/ml, and supernatants were subjected to enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results showed that MGN-3 is a potent TNF-alpha inducer. The effect was dose-dependent. MGN-3 concentration at 0.1 and 1 mg/ml increased TNF-alpha production by 22.8- and 47. 1-fold, respectively. MGN-3 also increased production of IFN-gamma but at lower levels as compared to TNF-alpha With respect to key cell surface receptors, MGN-3 increases the expression of CD69, an early activation antigen at 16 hours after treatment. Furthermore, the interleukin-2 receptor CD25 and the adhesion molecule ICAM-1 (CD54) were upregulated after treatment with MGN-3. Treating highly purified NK cells with MGN-3 also resulted in increased levels of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma secretion in conjunction with augmentation of NK cell cytotoxic function. Furthermore, addition of MGN-3 to interleukin-2-activated NK cells resulted in a synergistic induction of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma secretion. Overall, our data suggest that MGN-3, a novel biological response modifier, can be used as a safe alternative or as an adjuvant to the existing immunotherapeutic modalities.
11060302	Nitrilases (nitrile aminohydrolases, EC) are enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of nitriles to the corresponding carbon acids. Among the four known nitrilases of Arabidopsis thaliana, the isoform NIT4 is the most divergent one, and homologs of NIT4 are also known from species not belonging to the Brassicaceae like Nicotiana tabacum and Oryza sativa. We expressed A. thaliana NIT4 as hexahistidine tag fusion protein in Escherichia coli. The purified enzyme showed a strong substrate specificity for beta-cyano-l-alanine (Ala(CN)), an intermediate product of cyanide detoxification in higher plants. Interestingly, not only aspartic acid but also asparagine were identified as products of NIT4-catalyzed Ala(CN) hydrolysis. Asn itself was no substrate for NIT4, indicating that it is not an intermediate but one of two reaction products. NIT4 therefore has both nitrilase and nitrile hydratase activity. Several lines of evidence indicate that the catalytic center for both reactions is the same. The NIT4 homologs of N. tabacum were found to catalyze the same reactions and protein extracts of A. thaliana, N. tabacum and Lupinus angustifolius also converted Ala(CN) to Asp and Asn in vitro. NIT4 may play a role in cyanide detoxification during ethylene biosynthesis because extracts from senescent leaves of A. thaliana showed higher Ala(CN) hydratase/nitrilase activities than extracts from nonsenescent tissue.
11060484	Buckwheat allergies are not common, however, it is considered to be a very potent allergen. Ingestion of small amounts has been found to produce anaphylactic reactions, particularly in children. Identification and characterization of the major allergen(s) in buckwheat are currently underway, however, there are some discrepancies in the findings. Identification of the major allergen(s) was determined through Western blotting using buckwheat-allergic patients' sera. Once the allergenic proteins were identified, they were purified, their IgE-binding activity assessed through an indirect ELISA and the N-terminal amino acid sequence completed. To assess the stability of the IgE-binding epitopes, protein fractions were exposed to various treatments and assayed using an indirect ELISA. Lastly, the presence of anti-buckwheat IgG in the patients' sera was analyzed through Western blotting and ELISA. IgE binding was detected to proteins with molecular masses of approximately 14 and 18 kDa. N-terminal sequencing was completed and found to share some homology with rice proteins associated with rice allergies and cross-allergenicity with buckwheat proteins. When the water-soluble protein fraction was heated, exposed to acidic and alkaline conditions and fully denatured, IgE-binding activity was reduced. When the fraction was partially denatured through urea, IgE-binding activity increased. Furthermore, IgG-binding activity was detected with proteins only above the 20 kDa region. Proteins with molecular masses around 14 and 18 kDa were identified as the major allergenic proteins in the buckwheat-allergic patients' sera tested in this study. Results also indicate that these two proteins possess IgE-binding capability.
11061190	In a laboratory incubation study, methane (CH4) production in two saline soils and a nonsaline soil sample was investigated under flooded conditions. Mean CH4 production was remarkable (630.86 ng CH4/g) in nonsaline alluvial soil, but low (12.97 ng CH4/g) in acid sulfate saline (Pokkali) soil which was attributed to the high sulfate content of the later. CH4 production was also low in the coastal saline (Canning) soil (142.36 ng CH4/g) but increased upon leaching the soil of its salt content. Addition of salts to the nonsaline alluvial soil at 4, 8, 16 and 20 dS/m progressively decreased CH4 production. The inhibition of CH4 production was related to low microbial activities as reflected by decreased microbial biomass C and low soil microbial population including that of methanogens.
11062125	Methyl halide gases are important sources of atmospheric inorganic halogen compounds, which in turn are central reactants in many stratospheric and tropospheric chemical processes. By observing emissions of methyl chloride, methyl bromide, and methyl iodide from flooded California rice fields, we estimate the impact of rice agriculture on the atmospheric budgets of these gases. Factors influencing methyl halide emissions are stage of rice growth, soil organic content, halide concentrations, and field-water management. Extrapolating our data implies that about 1 percent of atmospheric methyl bromide and 5 percent of methyl iodide arise from rice fields worldwide. Unplanted flooded fields emit as much methyl chloride as planted, flooded rice fields.
11064324	Sixty-six new and used samples of horse bedding materials: 60 rice straws, 2 wheat straws, 2 timothy hays and 2 wood chips, were collected from horse breeding stables of 33 farms in Japan and examined for the presence of Emericella nidulans (E. nidulans; anam. Aspergillus nidulans). The incidence of E. nidulans in the bedding materials was 75.8% and there was no significant difference in detection of the fungus between the new and used materials (25 out of the 33 samples, respectively). The growth of E. nidulans isolated in sterilized rice straw culture was accelerated by the addition of water up to about Aw 0.94, which as determined to be the most favorable moisture content. The addition of 0.3% urea solution onto the sterilized rice straw culture also appeared to very effectively enhance its conidial and ascocarp formation. A significant influence of urea on conidial and ascocarp formation of E. nidulans isolates was confirmed by their cultures on a synthetic medium which had urea as the sole nitrogen. These results suggest that severe contamination of E. nidulans on new bedding materials can be hazardous and its proliferation can readily occur at the stable due to the enhancing effect of urine. This analysis is meaningful to elucidate a reservoir of E. nidulans as the causative agent of guttural pouch mycosis in horses.
11065192	Some chemical and fungicidal effects of 20 phthalocyanines of Co, Fe, Cu, and Al were studied. Under dark conditions, these complexes reduced nitroblue tetrazolium in the presence of KCN, accelerated the autoxidation of ascorbate or hydroquinone and decomposed hydrogen peroxide. In the later reaction, hydroxyl radical was generated as evidenced with the deoxyribose assay. The inhibition by superoxide dismutase and catalase of catalyzed autoxidation of ascorbate suggests the participation of superoxide anion-radical and hydrogen peroxide in the reaction. Most complexes were toxic to the fungus Magnaporthe grisea which causes blast disease of rice. The toxicity was enhanced by light being diminished by antioxidant reagents sequestering active oxygen species. Some complexes (including nontoxic ones), after 1-day contact with a leaf surface of the disease-susceptible rice cultivar, induced the fungitoxicity of leaf diffusate. This toxicity was also light-activated and sensitive to antioxidant reagents. Several complexes, when added to inocula, decreased 2-3 times the frequency of the compatible symptoms of the blast. It is suggested that in planta, the dark redox activity of phthalocyanines along with their photosensitization promote the generation of active oxygen, which damages the parasite and, therefore, favors disease resistance.
11065287	The reduction of castasterone with sodium in ethanol produced chiefly the known 6alpha-hydroxy stereoisomer, whereas reduction with sodium orohydride in methanol afforded mainly the novel 6beta-epimer. Both compounds showed variable bioactivity through four separate assays via the rice leaf lamina inclination bioassay. However, when treated with an appropriate statistical program to remove outliers, the averaged results clearly indicated that the two 6-hydroxy epimers possess comparable and significant bioactivity, which is, however, lower than that of castasterone or brassinolide. When applied together with 1000 ng of the auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), the activity of both the 6alpha and 6beta hydroxy epimers was enhanced by ca. one order of magnitude across a wide range of doses.
11065289	Nine plant growth inhibitors were isolated from the tropical weed Sphenoclea zeylanica, which shows allelopathic properties. Those compounds hitherto not reported from any plant source were the isomers of cyclic thiosulfinate, (1S,3R,4R)-(+)- and (1R,3R,4R)-(+)-4-hydroxy-3-hydroxymethyl-1,2-dithiolane-1-oxides, and (2R,3R,4R)-(-)- and (2S,3R,4R)-(+)-4-hydroxy-3-hydroxymethyl-1,2-dithiolane-2-oxides. These were named zeylanoxide A, epi-zeylanoxide A, zeylanoxide B and epi-zeylanoxide B, respectively. The absolute configurations at C-3 and C-4 were elucidated by chemical synthesis of both enantiomers from L- and D-glucose. Two of the inhibitors were secologanic acid and secologanoside. and three other inhibitors were by known secoiridoid glucosides formed as artifacts during extraction with methanol. The cyclic thiosulfinates and secoiridoid glucosides completely inhibit the root growth of rice seedlings at 3.0 mM. While the specific activity of the inhibitors was not high, since they accumulated to circa 0.61% S. zelanica by dry weight, this suggests that the inhibitors are nervertheless potent allelochemicals in this weed.
11074588	Agricultural genomics has the potential to dramatically enrich the availability and quality of food supplies worldwide. However, because thousands of different plant species are grown for food, the application of genomics to crop improvement faces issues distinct from those in medical research. The challenge to agricultural plant scientists is to exploit the databases being generated for rice, maize, and Arabidopsis toward the genetic improvement of non-model crop species. The work in our lab illustrates one example of how genomic approaches can be applied to a non-model plant. Our overall goal is to understand how roots of different plants interact and use this information to improve the subterranean performance of crops in relation to weeds. The most obvious manifestation of root-root interactions is haustoria development. Haustoria are parasitic plant-specific organs that invade host plants and rob them of water and nutrients. Parasitic members of the Scrophulariaceae develop haustoria in vitro when exposed to molecules released by host roots. This is a useful phenotype for investigating plant-plant interactions because it is rapid, highly synchronous, and strictly dependent on exogenous haustoria-inducing factors (HIFs). Using a PCR-based subtractive hybridization, we cloned several hundred cDNAs representing transcripts one to two orders of magnitude more abundant in the roots of a parasitic plant after HIF exposure. Putative functions for about 90% of these transcripts could be assigned by searching the public databases. These have been arrayed on nylon filters and interrogated with a variety of probes from different parasitic and nonparasitic plants. Results from these experiments allowed us to identify likely candidate genes for the perception and processing of root signals by neighboring plants.
11075514	The non-coding chloroplast DNA sequences of the trnL (UAA) intron and the trnL-trnF (GAA) intergeneric spacer (IGS), the coding sequences of nuclear 18S rDNA, and the transcription factor Vp1 of the cereal tef (Eragrostis tef (Zucc.) Trotter) were studied. No intraspecific variation was found among the 6 studied tef varieties. However, the study displayed that Eragrostis tef has a number of unique traits compared to other grasses. Phylogenetic analysis of the chloroplast DNA gave three grass clades, joining Eragrostis with sorghum and maize in one. In the analysis of the 18S rDNA sequences, the three grass species were joined in a monophyletic trichotomy in the cladogram, in which maize is the most divergent, rice the least and tef intermediate. The Vp1 is highly conserved. The Vp1 phylogeny showed that the tef Vp1-sequence is the hitherto most divergent Vp1-sequence reported from a grass.
11077155	Flooded rice paddies are one of the major biogenic sources of atmospheric methane. Apart from this contribution to the 'greenhouse' effect, rice paddy soil represents a suitable model system to study fundamental aspects of microbial ecology, such as diversity, structure, and dynamics of microbial communities as well as structure-function relationships between microbial groups. Flooded rice paddy soil can be considered as a system with three compartments (oxic surface soil, anoxic bulk soil, and rhizosphere) characterized by different physio-chemical conditions. After flooding, oxygen is rapidly depleted in the bulk soil. Anaerobic microorganisms, such as fermentative bacteria and methanogenic archaea, predominate within the microbial community, and thus methane is the final product of anaerobic degradation of organic matter. In the surface soil and the rhizosphere well-defined microscale chemical gradients can be measured. The oxygen profile seems to govern gradients of other electron acceptors (e.g., nitrate, iron(III), and sulfate) and reduced compounds (e.g., ammonium, iron(II), and sulfide). These gradients provide information about the activity and spatial distribution of functional groups of microorganisms. This review presents the current knowledge about the highly complex microbiology of flooded rice paddies. In Section 2 we describe the predominant microbial groups and their function with particular regard to bacterial populations utilizing polysaccharides and simple sugars, and to the methanogenic archaea. Section 3 describes the spatial and temporal development of microscale chemical gradients measured in experimentally defined model systems, including gradients of oxygen and dissolved and solid-phase iron(III) and iron(II). In Section 4, the results of measurements of microscale gradients of oxygen, pH, nitrate-nitrite, and methane in natural rice fields and natural rice soil cores taken to the laboratory will be presented. Finally, perspectives of future research are discussed (Section 5).
11077930	A sufficiently stable rate of 13CO2 exhalation is necessary when the diagnostic 13CO2 breath tests are performed in healthy subjects and patients. The aim of the research was to define prerequisite conditions for kinetic breath tests in order to ensure a stable 13CO2 background. A 3-part protocol was developed. Part I: a study of the one-day variation of 13CO2 abundance in expired CO2 confirmed that shifts of the basal 13C abundance in breath are inherent in nature. Part II: a study of the variations of 13C enrichment after the ingestion of different meals and beverages showed that ingestion of food items containing C4 plant sugars, such as maize, induces a significant increase in isotopic abundance. Part III: a new test breakfast containing rice grain cereal, milk and orange juice was tested. This test meal induces no significant change on the basal 13CO2 abundance in healthy subjects. This new finding allows to avoid the fasting period normally required prior to a breath test which is sometimes difficult for children and pregnant women.
11080122	How Texas wild rice, Zizania texana, became isolated in the San Marcos River of Central Texas, hundreds of kilometres from other wild rice populations is not known. Zizania seeds are intolerant of short-term desiccation. Seeds desiccated at 14% relative humidity (RH) and 75% RH do not survive after only 5-6 d and 2-3 wk of drying. Water loss is rapid and reaches a maximum at the time of seed death due to drying. And although all Zizania seeds germinate well following a long, cold dormancy period, Z. texana seeds readily germinate in the isothermic water (22C) of the San Marcos River and Springs without an obligate, cold dormant period. Within 30-60 d of collection, Z. texana seeds germinate in substantial numbers, unlike seeds of Z. palustris, which require a long, cold dormant period. The Texas population of Z. texana may represent a relict population of a once more widely dispersed wild rice population, since the San Marcos springs probably have never gone dry.
11080279	Pb inhibits plant growth. To study Pb tolerance in rice (Oryza sativa), we screened 229 varieties for Pb tolerance or sensitivity. Three-day-old seedlings were treated for 12 d with 20 microM Pb solution. Based on the dry weight of the root, three Pb-tolerant (var CH-55, var KH-2J, var Kumnung) and three Pb-sensitive (var Aixueru, var C-9491, var Milyang23) rice varieties were selected. The root biomasses of the tolerant varieties were approximately 10-fold higher than those of the sensitive ones. The greatest morphological difference between the two groups was in the growth of the adventitious roots, as tolerant lines were able to develop adventitious roots after 6 d of Pb treatment, whereas sensitive ones did not develop any even after 15 d. The growth of adventitious roots in the tolerant varieties was dependent on a mechanism, whereby Pb was altered to a form that cannot be taken up by the tissue, because (a) the solution in which the tolerant varieties of rice had grown still contained Pb but nevertheless did not affect the root growth of new rice seedlings, and (b) the adventitious roots of tolerant seedlings developed in Pb solution contained little Pb. The oxalate content in the root and root exudate increased upon Pb treatment in the tolerant varieties, whereas the opposite was observed for the sensitive ones. Oxalate added to the growth solution ameliorated the inhibition of root growth by Pb. These results suggest that compounds such as oxalate secreted from the root may reduce the bio-availability of Pb, and that this may constitute an important Pb tolerance mechanism in the tolerant rice varieties studied here.
11080357
11080631	Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) is a major pathogen that dramatically reduces rice production in many African countries. RYMV belongs to the genus sobemovirus, one group of plant viruses with icosahedral capsids and single-stranded, positive-sense RNA genomes. The structure of RYMV was determined and refined to 2.8 A resolution by X-ray crystallography. The capsid contains 180 copies of the coat protein subunit arranged with T = 3 icosahedral symmetry. Each subunit adopts a jelly-roll beta sandwich fold. The RYMV capsid structure is similar to those of other sobemoviruses. When compared with these viruses, however, the betaA arm of the RYMV C subunit, which is a molecular switch that regulates quasi-equivalent subunit interactions, is swapped with the 2-fold-related betaA arm to a similar, noncovalent bonding environment. This exchange of identical structural elements across a symmetry axis is categorized as 3D domain swapping and produces long-range interactions throughout the icosahedral surface lattice. Biochemical analysis supports the notion that 3D domain swapping increases the stability of RYMV. The quasi-equivalent interactions between the RYMV proteins are regulated by the N-terminal ordered residues of the betaA arm, which functions as a molecular switch. Comparative analysis suggests that this molecular switch can also modulate the stability of the viral capsids.
11080650	Productivity of recombinant human alpha(1)-antitrypsin (rAAT) with a genetically engineered rice cell using an inducible promoter has been studied by batch-wise and continuous production. A simple model explained the effect of proteases released from the disrupted cells on the rAAT degradation. Glucose concentration in the medium significantly affected the rAAT productivity in the continuous production, because the rAAT was induced by sugar depletion. When the fresh medium containing 5mM glucose was supplied to the continuous bioreactor, induction time was long and the productivity was low, indicating that the glucose concentration in the cells was high enough as to repress the promoter. When the glucose concentration in the fresh medium was reduced to 0.5mM, total amount of rAAT produced in 70h cultivation reached 6.7-7.6mg/g-dry cell, which was two times larger than the control medium without glucose.
11081418	1. Coir dust was evaluated as broiler litter in comparison with sawdust and rice husk using 135 commercial broilers. Forty-five broiler chicks were reared to 42 d on a 50 mm layer of each of these litters. 2. Birds reared on coir dust showed no difference in food consumption, body weight gain, food conversion efficiency production number and survivability in comparison to those reared on saw dust and rice husk. 3. It was concluded that coir dust is suitable as broiler litter when cheaply available.
11081651	Experimental Bacillus larvicides designed to float on or near the water surface were compared to labeled standard Bacillus corn-cob-based larvicides using sentinel Anopheles quadrimaculatus larvae in Arkansas rice plots during the 1998 growing season. Experimental floating formulations of Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis applied at 5.58 and 11.18 kg/ha provided up to 100% control of 3rd- and 4th-stage Anopheles larvae within 24-48 h, whereas the water-dispersible granule formulations containing Bacillus sphaericus required 48-72 h to yield >75% mortality in 0.16-ha plots at 11.18 kg/ha. Detecting and targeting the smaller developmental stages (1st- and 2nd-stage larvae) could increase the effectiveness of the tested compounds against An. quadrimaculatus in Arkansas and other rice-growing regions.
11081657	Assessments of the biological control potential of muddy loaches, Misgurnus mizolepis, were conducted against Aedes togoi, Culex pipiens pallens, and Culex inatomii larvae both in the laboratory and in small rice plots in Pusan, Korea, from June to September 1997. Medium-sized fish consumed almost all of 500 3rd-stage larvae of Cx. pipiens pallens offered daily in the laboratory. Predation by the fish at release rates of 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 fish per plot resulted in 1,004, 1,197, 1,198, 1,200, and 1,200 larvae of Ae. togoi consumed in 12 h, respectively, when each 1,200 3rd-stage larvae were given in the 1-m2 small rice plots. The average numbers of larvae eaten after introduction of the fish were 1,121.8 larvae in 24 h and 1,195.8 larvae in 36 h. Muddy loaches showed slightly higher predation rates on Cx. pipiens pallens and Culex inatomii larvae than on larvae of Ae. togoi. Therefore, M. mizolepis might be an efficient biological control agent against mosquito species in rice fields.
11081660	A technique was developed for rapid colonization of Anopheles quadrimaculatus larvae in an improvised insectary using blood-fed mosquitoes aspirated from livestock barns. A novel device termed the mosquito aspiration transfer and ovipositional chamber (MATOC) is described. In 2 field seasons, 14 broods were successfully mass reared, yielding more than 28,500 vigorous 3rd- and 4th-stage larvae used in rice plot and other bioassays. Crowding the females over a natural ovipositional substrate induced oviposition as early as 12 h from introduction into the MATOCs.
11081978	Plant retrotransposons are largely inactive during normal development, but may be activated by stresses. Both copia-like and gypsy-like retrotransposons of rice were activated by introgression of DNA from the wild species Zizania latifolia Griseb. The copy number increase was associated with cytosine methylation changes of the elements. Activity of the elements was ephemeral, as evidenced by nearly identical genomic Southern hybridization patterns among randomly chosen individuals both within and between generations for a given line, and the absence of transcripts based on Northern analysis. DNA hypermethylation, internal sequence deletion, and possibly other mechanisms are likely responsible for the rapid element repression. Implications of the retroelement dynamics on plant genome evolution are discussed.
11082699	Campesterol (3) and dihydrobrassicasterol (4), typical C28-sterols in higher plants, are biosynthesized from a steroidal 24-ene precursor (desmosterol 1) via 24-methylenecholesterol (2) and 24-methyldesmosterol (5). A typical plant C29-sterol, sitosterol (6), is produced from 24-methylenecholesterol via isofucosterol (7) and 24-ethyldesmosterol (8). The biosynthetic mechanism, focussing stereochemical features, of these side-chain transformations has been studied in detail by feeding regio- and stereoselectively 13C- or 2H-labeled steroidal substrates to cell cultures of higher plants such as Oryza sativa, Catharanthus roseus and Morus alba. These studies allowed to correlate the metabolic origin of C-26 and C-27 of the intermediate sterols. It has been established that the 1st methylation leading to 24-methylenecholesterol from desmosterol involves a Re-face hydrogen migration from C-24 to C-25 based on unambiguous assignment of the isopropyl pro-R-Me and pro-S-Me of 24-methylenecholesterol. The 2nd methylation leading to isofucosterol was revealed to proceed in a trans-mechanism in which addition of the methyl group and elimination of the C-28 hydrogen occur on opposite faces of the original delta 24(28) plane. The double bond isomerization from delta 24(28) to delta 24(25) was found to proceed in a syn-SE2' mechanism with the pro-S-methyl group of isofucosterol becoming the (E)-methyl of 24-ethyldesmosterol. Finally, feeding studies of [E-Me-13C]- and [Z-Me-13C]-24-methyldesmosterols established that an anti-mode of hydrogen addition is operating in the conversion of 24-methyldesmosterol to campesterol and dihydrobrassicasterol. Similar studies established that 24-ethyldesmosterol is converted to sitosterol in an anti-mode of hydrogen addition. In addition, the mechanism of sterol side-chain formation in hairy roots of Ajuga reptans var. atropurpurea is briefly described.
11084248	The properties of the new pectin-based anti-reflux agent Aflurax (Ferrosan) were studied in vitro and in vivo. Aflurax had a significantly higher in vitro raft strength than the placebo which was matched to the active except for the pectin (4.66+/-2.10 and 0. 22+/-0.04 g, respectively). In the modified Rossett and Rice test, the pectin raft remained above pH 3 for 130 min, whereas the pH in the acid phase remained unchanged. A modification to the stirring speed of the Rossett and Rice test was required to obtain a neutralisation profile for the placebo. The neutralisation profiles for the Aflurax and placebo were the same since both contained 5 mEq of base per tablet. In the in vivo study, subjects were randomly assigned to two groups, which either received radiolabelled food and unlabelled formulation, or unlabelled food and radiolabelled formulations. A pH probe was passed naso-gastrically and placed 5 cm from the cardia, and a small gamma detector was placed on the chest wall, coincident with the pH probe. The subjects received the test meal after an overnight fast. The pectin formulation or placebo was administered 30 min later. Each part of the study was performed as a single-blind two-way cross over with the active versus placebo. The reflux of radiolabel and acid was monitored for three hours postprandially. Aflurax reduced the H(+) concentration (total refluxed hydrogen ion index for Aflurax=3.5 x 10(3)+/-2.1 x 10(3), placebo=29 x 10(3)+/-16 x 10(3)) and amount of radiolabelled food reaching the oesophagus (total refluxed count index of food in counts x 1000 min(-1) Aflurax=19.2+/-2.3, placebo=525+/-423). The mean time for which the oesophageal pH fell below pH 4 was 2.58+/-1. 0 and 0.86+/-0.4 minutes for the placebo and Aflurax groups, respectively. The total amount of radiolabelled formulation which reached the oesophagus was 1000+/-660 for the placebo and 621+/-580 for the Aflurax.
11084878	The analysis of the epidemiological studies carried out in Italy give us the idea for a very precise survey of the occupational leptospirosis. We have identified the occupational hazards and the precautionary measures. In Italy the first epidemiological data about human leptospirosis goes back to 1917. During following decades were highlighted several occupational forms of leptospirosis, specifically seasonal epidemics among rice-workers. Epidemiological studies carried out in Italy from 1950 to 1990 showed that leptospirosis was again widespread although precautionary measures and there was a probable spread of the "minor leptospirosis" at the same time of common cases of "major leptospirosis". The latest data issued by Ministry of the Health related years '94-'97 confirm the persistence of leptospirosis, for the most part in the north. However there is a problem of underestimate because many times human leptospirosis show itself with minor clinical forms. In the working environment is essential the function of the Medico Competente. He must avail himself of the precautionary measures for the biological risk specified in D.lgs 626/94.
11085268	The barley stem rust resistance gene rpg4 was physically and genetically localized on two overlapping BAC clones covering an estimated 300-kb region of the long arm of barley chromosome 7(5H). Initially, our target was mapped within a 6.0-cM region between the previously described flanking markers MWG740 and ABG391. This region was then saturated by integrating new markers from several existing barley and rice maps and by using BAC libraries of barley cv. Morex and rice cv. Nipponbare. Physical/genetic distances in the vicinity of rpg4 were found to be 1.0 Mb/cM, which is lower than the average for barley (4 Mb/cM) and lower than that determined by translocation breakpoint mapping (1.8 Mb/cM). Synteny at high resolution levels has been established between the region of barley chromosome 7(5H) containing the rpg4 locus and the subtelomeric region of rice chromosome 3 between markers S16474 and E10757. This 1.7-cM segment of the rice genome was covered by two overlapping BAC clones, about 250 kb of total length. In barley the markers S16474 and E10757 genetically delimit rpg4, lying 0.6 cM distal and 0.4 cM proximal to the locus, respectively.
11087073	Rice plants were treated with 50 microM copper sulfate to induce the synthesis of phytochelatins by means of a series of enzymatic reactions, including that of photochelatin synthase. Phytochelatin synthase extracted from 3-week-old rice seedlings was purified through a series of steps including precipitation with ice-chilled acetone, QAE A-50 anion exchange column, Amicon XM-50 ultrafiltration and Polybuffer Exchange (PBE) 94 chromato-focusing. This enzyme had a molecular mass of about 100 kDa with an isoelectric point of 4.0. The temperature and pH optima of this enzyme were 55 degrees C and pH 7.5, respectively. The enzyme was thermal tolerable and unstable under refrigeration at 4 or -20 degrees C. Cadmium was the most effective stimulator, followed by lead, copper, silver, cobalt and other divalent cations. Calcium and magnesium had no effect.
11087463	Detailed analyses were undertaken of the natural constituents of red yeast rice, a traditional Chinese medicine and food known for centuries to improve blood circulation. Preparation of red yeast rice following ancient methods by fermenting the fungal strain Monascus purpureus Went on moist and sterile rice indicated the presence of a group of metabolites belonging to the monacolin family of polyketides, together with fatty acids, and trace elements. The presence of these compounds may explain in part the cholesterol-lowering ability associated with this traditional Chinese food.
11087478	Some series of 2-alkyl (alkythio)-5-((4-chloro)-3-ethyl-1-methyl-1H-pyrazole-5-yl)-1,3, 4-oxadiazoles (thiadiazoles) were prepared as potential fungicides. Their fungicidal activity was evaluated against rice sheath blight, which is a major disease of rice in China. Structure-activity relationships for the screened compounds were evaluated and discussed. It was found that 5-(4-chloro-3-ethyl-1-methyl-1H-pyrazole-5-yl)-1,3, 4-thiadiazole-2-thione has the higher fungicidal activity.
11088349	We introduce a continuous cellular automaton that presents self-organized criticality. It is one-dimensional, totally deterministic, without any embedded randomness, not even in the initial conditions. This system is in the same universality class as the Oslo rice pile, boundary driven interface depinning and the train model for earthquakes. Although the system is chaotic, in the thermodynamic limit chaos occurs only in a microscopic level.
11088771	A numerical model of the front of a planar crack propagating between two connected elastic plates is investigated. The plates are modeled as square lattices of elastic beams. The plates are connected by similar but breakable beams with a randomly varying stiffness. The crack is driven by pulling both plates at one end in Mode I at a constant rate. We find zeta=1/3, z=4/3, and beta=1/4 for the roughness, dynamical, and growth exponents, respectively, that describe the front behavior. This is similar to continuum limit analyses based on a perturbative stress-intensity treatment of the front [H. Gao and J. R. Rice, J. Appl. Mech. 56, 828 (1989)]. We discuss the differences to recent experiments.
11090205
11091336
11092435	A retrospective cohort study was carried out to investigate concurrent outbreaks of gastroenteritis and typhoid fever that occurred among guests of a supper on a floating restaurant in France in March 1998. A total of 133 guests (attack rate = 90%) reported gastroenteritis within 12 days of the supper. Twenty-seven guests developed typhoid fever (attack rate = 18%) of whom 15 were confirmed by stool or blood culture. All patients with typhoid fever had had an initial gastroenteritis. The results suggest that the same food items served during the supper, chicken and rice, were the vehicles of both gastroenteritis and typhoid fever, but the authors could not determine the specific source of infection. Initial gastroenteritis has been described as a clinical manifestation of typhoid fever but whether or not these two syndromes (gastroenteritis and typhoid fever) were due to the same etiology remains unclear in this outbreak.
11092750	BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search) analyses of Hordeum chilense RAPD markers have shown DNA sequence similarities with several plant genes. Biologically significant hits were scored for: plastocianin (Hordeum vulgare), alpha-gliadin (Triticum aestivum), Grandel-6 retrotransposon (Zea diploperennis), retrofit (gag/pol) copia-like, transposon-like element (Oryza longistaminata), copia-like retrotransposon Hopscotch polyprotein (gag/pol) (Zea mays) and several retrotransposons/retroelements from other species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Pisum sativum and Zea mays). Statistically significant hits also included endochitinase (Brassica napius), ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Euglena gracilis), piruvate, orthophosphate dikinase (Flaveria trinervia), and an ORF flanked by ARS sequences (Triticum aestivum). Interestingly, it was also found that the currently recommended BLAST algorithm (version 2.0.11; gapped) at <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov> did not produce any biologically significant hits, whereas the previous version (1.4.11; ungapped) did generate biologically significant results. Thus, we suggest using the new BLAST 2.0.x when strong homologies are expected in short sequence stretches between closely related species. In other instances (and particularly when searching for lower similarities, yet spanning significantly larger stretches between more distant species), the BLAST 1.4.x could yield additional results. BLAST searches are valuable tools to identify and clone DNA sequences of interest, with applications in Marker-Assisted Selection (MAS) and wheat introgression.
11092909	Promotive effect of brassinolide (BL) on green lamina inclination was concentration-dependent when excised rice (Oryza sativa L.) lamina was floated on BL solution under continuous light conditions. Protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine and Ca2+ channel blocker LaCl3 could completely, while Ca2+ chelator EGTA could partially inhibit the lamina inclination caused by BL. Two protein kinases with apparent molecular masses of 45 and 54 kDa were detected using an in-gel kinase assay with histone III-S as a substrate. In particular, the changes in 45 kDa protein kinase activity correlated with lamina inclination caused by BL. The 45 kDa kinase activity was inhibited by Ca2+ chelator EGTA, protein kinase inhibitor, staurosporine and calmodulin antagonist W-7. Therefore, this 45 kDa protein kinase was identified as a Ca2+ -dependent protein kinase (CDPK). Patterns of 2-dimensional PAGE after in vitro phosphorylation of crude extracts showed that the phosphorylation of 56 and 41 kDa proteins, which was Ca2+ -dependent, was strongly increased by BL treatment. These results suggested that CDPK and Ca2+ -dependent protein phosphorylation are involved in BL-induced rice lamina inclination.
11093225
11093448	To investigate the historical origins of ligamentous ossifications of the spine in Japan. We studied skeletons of Jomonese of the period 5000-2300 years BP, of Japanese of the 17th-19th century Edo Period, and of Ainu of the 18th-20th century in Japan with special emphasis on spinal ligament ossifications as in the posterior longitudinal ligament. A comparison to our previous study on ancient Chinese skeletons was done. Cervical ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) was the only ossification that increased significantly in prevalence in people of the near-modern period in comparison to the Neolithic gathering-hunting people. Socioeconomic changes from a subsistence gathering-hunting economy to the near-modern livelihood depending on rice-eating and a diet high in vegetable protein are speculated to be responsible for the prevalence increase of cervical OPLL.
11094977	Although sequences representing members of the phytochrome (phy) family of photoreceptors have been reported in numerous species across the phylogenetic spectrum, relatively few phytochrome genes (PHY) have been fully characterized. Using rice, we have cloned and characterized the first PHYC gene from a monocot. Comparison of genomic and cDNA PHYC sequences shows that the rice PHYC gene contains three introns in the protein-coding region typical of most angiosperm PHY genes, in contrast to Arabidopsis PHYC, which lacks the third intron. Mapping of the transcription start site and 5'-untranslated region of the rice PHYC transcript indicates that it contains an unusually long, intronless, 5'-untranslated leader sequence of 715 bp. PHYC mRNA levels are relatively low compared to PHYA and PHYB mRNAs in rice seedlings, and are similar in dark- and light-treated seedlings, suggesting relatively low constitutive expression. Genomic mapping shows that the PHYA, PHYB, and PHYC genes are all located on chromosome 3 of rice, in synteny with these genes in linkage group C (sometimes referred to as linkage group A) of sorghum. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that rice phyC is closely related to sorghum phyC, but relatively strongly divergent from Arabidopsis phyC, the only full-length dicot phyC sequence available.
11094984	The small subunit of ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco), encoded by rbcS, is essential for photosynthesis in both C3 and C4 plants, even though the cell specificity of rbcS expression is different between C3 and C4 plants. The C3 rbcS is specifically expressed in mesophyll cells, while the C4 rbcS is expressed in bundle sheath cells, and not mesophyll cells. Two chimeric genes were constructed consisting of the structural gene encoding beta-glucuronidase (GUS) controlled by the two promoters from maize (C4) and rice (C3) rbcS genes. These constructs were introduced into a C4 plant, maize. Both chimeric genes were specifically expressed in photosynthetic organs, such as leaf blade, but not in non-photosynthetic organs. The expressions of the genes were also regulated by light. However, the rice promoter drove the GUS activity mainly in mesophyll cells and relatively low in bundle sheath cells, while the maize rbcS promoter induced the activity specifically in bundle sheath cells. These results suggest that the rice promoter contains some cis-acting elements responding in an organ-specific and light-inducible regulation manner in maize but does not contain element(s) for bundle sheath cell-specific expression, while the maize promoter does contain such element(s). Based on this result, we discuss the similarities and differences between the rice (C3) and maize (C4) rbcS promoter in terms of the evolution of the C4 photosynthetic gene.
11095723	Durability of plant disease resistance (R) genes may be predicted if the cost of pathogen adaptation to overcome resistance is understood. Adaptation of the bacterial blight pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), to virulence in rice is the result of the loss of pathogen avirulence gene function, but little is known about its effect on aggressiveness under field conditions. We evaluated the cost in pathogenic fitness (aggressiveness and persistence) associated with adaptation of Xoo to virulence on near-isogenic rice lines with single R genes (Xa7, Xa10, and Xa4) at two field sites endemic for bacterial blight. Disease severity was high in all 3 years on all lines except the line with Xa7. Of two Xoo lineages (groups of strains inferred to be clonally related based on DNA fingerprinting) detected, one, lineage C, dominated the pathogen population at both sites. All Xoo strains were virulent to Xa4, whereas only lineage C strains were virulent to Xa10. Only a few strains of lineage C were virulent to Xa7. Adaptation to virulence on Xa7 occurred through at least four different pathways and was associated with a reduction in aggressiveness. Loss of avirulence and reduced aggressiveness were associated with mutations at the 3' terminus of the avrXa7 allele. Strains most aggressive to Xa7 were not detected after the second year, suggesting they were less persistent than less aggressive strains. These experiments support the prediction that Xa7 would be a durable R gene because of a fitness penalty in Xoo associated with adaptation to Xa7.
11097223	Rice is a staple diet in Asia, where the incidence of breast and colon cancer is markedly below that in the Western world. We investigated potential colon and breast tumor-suppressive properties of rice, testing the hypothesis that rice contains phenols that interfere with the proliferation or colony-forming ability of breast or colon cells. Brown rice, its white milled counterpart, and bran from brown rice were boiled and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extracts were analyzed by high pressure liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Eight phenols, protocatechuic acid, p-coumaric acid, caffeic acid, ferulic acid, sinapic acid, vanillic acid, methoxycinnamic acid, and tricin, were identified in the extracts of bran and intact brown rice. These extracts were separated into nine fractions by column chromatography. The effect of bran extract and its fractions at 100 microg/ml on cell viability and colony-forming ability of human-derived breast and colon cell lines was assessed. Bran extract decreased numbers of viable MDA MB 468 and HBL 100 breast cells and colon-derived SW 480 and human colonic epithelial cells as judged by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4 -sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium assay. It also reduced colony formation of SW 480 colon and MDA MB 468 breast cells. Of the eight phenols identified in the brown rice bran, when applied at 50 microM, caffeic acid decreased numbers of all cell types except HBL 100. Tricin, ferulic acid, and methoxycinnamic acid interfered with cell viability in one or more cell lines. Tricin (50 microM) and the other phenols (200 microM) inhibited colony formation of SW 480 cells. Clonogenicity of MDA MB 468 cells was inhibited by caffeic acid, ferulic acid, and tricin (50 microM). Tricin was the most potent anticlonogenic of the compounds with IC50s of 16 microM in the SW 480 colon cells and 0.6 microM in the MDA MB 468 breast cells. The results suggest that: (a) brown rice and bran contain compounds with putative cancer chemopreventive properties; (b) certain phenols contained in brown rice bran, e.g., tricin, may be associated with this activity; and (c) these phenols are present at much lower levels in white than in brown rice. Thus, the consumption of rice bran or brown rice instead of milled white rice may be advantageous with respect to cancer prevention.
11097313	Buckwheat (BW) has been recognized as a common food allergen in Korea, Japan, and other countries. Until now, serologic findings of BW food-allergic patients and its major allergenic components have not been clarified. In this study, we analyzed the serologic findings of BW food allergy and characterized its major allergenic components. Nineteen BW-allergic subjects with symptoms after BW ingestion and 15 asymptomatic control subjects with positive skin prick test to BW were recruited. BW-specific IgE was measured with the Pharmacia CAP kit. Allergenic components of BW were analyzed by IgE immunoblotting, periodate oxidation, two-dimensonal PAGE, and sequencing of N-terminal amino acids. From the BW-allergic patients and asymptomatic controls, the sensitivity (100%), specificity (53%), and negative (100%) and positive predictive values (73%) of Pharmacia CAP specific IgE for diagnosis were estimated. The prevalence of IgE binding to 24-kDa (pI 8.3), 16-kDa (pI 5.6), and 9-kDa (pI 5.0/ 6.0) allergens was higher than 50% in BW-allergic and asymptomatic subjects. However, the specific IgE to split 19-kDa (pI 6.5/7.0) allergens were more specifically found in BW-allergic patients than in asymptomatic subjects (78% vs 7%). N-terminal amino-acid sequences of 19-kDa and 16-kDa allergens showed moderate and weak homology to the 19-kDa globulin protein of rice and alpha-amylase/trypsin inhibitor of millet, respectively. The N-terminus of the 9-kDa isoallergens were not different from each other and were identified as the reported trypsin inhibitors of BW. Attenuation of the IgE binding to the 9-kDa allergen was found with periodate oxidation. The allergens of 24, 19, 16, and 9 kDa are strong candidates to be major allergens, and the 19-kDa allergen was relatively specific for BW-allergic patients. Moreover, measurement of BW-specific IgE and the features of immunoblotting should be very useful tools in the diagnosis of BW allergy.
11097801	It is well known that cadmium (Cd) causes renal dysfunction such as increase of beta(2)-microglobulin excretion into urine. Although Cd in rice seems to be one of the largest sources of total Cd intake in Japan, there are very few studies that have epidemiologically clarified the relationship between Cd concentration in rice (Cd-R) and renal dysfunction, because such studies are basically ecological studies, in which confounding factors are difficult to take into consideration. To derive safety levels for foodstuff from Cd-R, it is essential to evaluate the effect of confounding factors. Thus, we investigated the dose-response relationship between renal dysfunction and not only Cd-R but also confounding factors, and we tried to determine whether Cd-R is an adequate indicator of "dose" in the dose-response relationship between Cd intake and renal dysfunction. In 1971, Cd-R data were obtained from rice samples collected by the Environment Agency, Government of Japan in the Fuchu area of Toyama Prefecture, which is known as a place where many itai-itai disease patients were found, and medical data were collected during 1979-1984 by Toyama Prefecture. First, the dose-response relationship between Cd-R and renal dysfunction was analyzed using the data from the Fuchu area. Second, to investigate the effect of confounding factors, analysis using the data from both the Fuchu area and an unpolluted area with environmental factors different from those of the Fuchu area was performed. The results showed that the cause of renal dysfunction could not be explained by Cd-R alone, and confounding factors were not negligible. Although it is difficult to clarify precisely the confounding factors from the available data, it is concluded that deriving a safety level for foodstuffs using only the Cd-R level as a reference is not appropriate.
11097833	Strategies evolved by plants to counteract a variety of biotic/abiotic stresses include induction of genes encoding pathogenesis-related (PR) protein, in particular the PR class 1 (PR1) gene family, widely used in stress response studies. In spite of its immense importance as a PR family member, and an accepted gene marker in plant disease/defense in dicots, little is known about rice PR1 genes. Recently, we cloned and characterized the first OsPR1a (rice acidic PR1) gene (Agrawal et al. (2000) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 274, 157-165). Here, we report characterization of a rice basic PR1 (OsPR1b) gene, identified from screening a cDNA library prepared from jasmonic acid (JA)-treated rice seedling leaf, providing detailed and valuable insights into rice PR1 gene expression. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsPR1b reveals only 63.1% homology with the OsPR1a protein, whereas Southern blot analyses indicate that OsPR1b is a multigene family. The JA-inducible OsPR1b gene was also up-regulated by salicylic acid (SA), abscisic acid (ABA), and kinetin (KN). Furthermore, protein phosphatase inhibitors, cantharidin (CN) and endothall (EN) strongly induced the OsPR1b transcript. However, OsPR1b was not cut-responsive, diagrammatically opposite to cut inducibility of OsPR1a. This induction was light-, time-, and dose-dependent, as demonstrated by using, JA, CN, and EN, and completely inhibited by cycloheximide, but not by tetracycline. The simultaneous application of SA, and ABA, with JA, respectively, showed almost complete inhibition of the JA-induced OsPR1b transcript by 200 microM SA or ABA, but not by 100 microM concentrated solutions, suggesting a potential interaction among JA, SA, and ABA, whereas KN dramatically enhanced JA-induced OsPR1b transcript upon simultaneous application. Moreover, a simultaneous application of staurosporine enhances JA-, CN-, and EN-induced OsPR1b transcript, in particular with CN. Finally, a comparative analysis with the OsPR1a gene gives us insight into the differential regulation of the PR1 gene family, while proposing OsPR1 genes as important gene markers in rice, with potential use(s) in analyzing plant defense responses.
11097925	We investigated the presence of endophytic rhizobia within the roots of the wetland wild rice Oryza breviligulata, which is the ancestor of the African cultivated rice Oryza glaberrima. This primitive rice species grows in the same wetland sites as Aeschynomene sensitiva, an aquatic stem-nodulated legume associated with photosynthetic strains of Bradyrhizobium. Twenty endophytic and aquatic isolates were obtained at three different sites in West Africa (Senegal and Guinea) from nodal roots of O. breviligulata and surrounding water by using A. sensitiva as a trap legume. Most endophytic and aquatic isolates were photosynthetic and belonged to the same phylogenetic Bradyrhizobium/Blastobacter subgroup as the typical photosynthetic Bradyrhizobium strains previously isolated from Aeschynomene stem nodules. Nitrogen-fixing activity, measured by acetylene reduction, was detected in rice plants inoculated with endophytic isolates. A 20% increase in the shoot growth and grain yield of O. breviligulata grown in a greenhouse was also observed upon inoculation with one endophytic strain and one Aeschynomene photosynthetic strain. The photosynthetic Bradyrhizobium sp. strain ORS278 extensively colonized the root surface, followed by intercellular, and rarely intracellular, bacterial invasion of the rice roots, which was determined with a lacZ-tagged mutant of ORS278. The discovery that photosynthetic Bradyrhizobium strains, which are usually known to induce nitrogen-fixing nodules on stems of the legume Aeschynomene, are also natural true endophytes of the primitive rice O. breviligulata could significantly enhance cultivated rice production.
11100623
11101151	A geranium (Pelargonium graveolens) chloroplast translational elongation factor EF-Tu (tufA) cDNA was isolated. The geranium tufA cDNA is 1,584 bp long with 20 bp of 5' untranslated region (UTR) and 139 bp of 3' UTR. It encodes 474 amino acids including a putative chloroplast transit peptide of 65 amino acids. The deduced polypeptides of the geranium tufA cDNA contains four GTP binding sequences in its N-terminal region and two chloroplast EF-Tu signature regions in the C-terminal region. The predicted molecular weight of the mature geranium chloroplast EF-Tu protein was about 45,000 and its amino acid sequence identity with the chloroplast EF-Tu proteins of tobacco, pea, Arabidopsis, rice, and soybean ranges from 85% to 91%. The geranium tufA appears to exist as a single copy gene like Arabidopsis and rice, whereas other known dicot plants have more than one copy in their nuclear genomes.
11101290	The three-dimensional structure of oryzacystatin-I, a cysteine proteinase inhibitor of the rice, Oryza sativa L. japonica, has been determined in solution at pH 6.8 and 25 degrees C by (1)H and (15)N NMR spectroscopy. The main body (Glu13-Asp97) of oryzacystatin-I is well-defined and consists of an alpha-helix and a five-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet, while the N- and C-terminal regions (Ser2-Val12 and Ala98-Ala102) are less defined. The helix-sheet architechture of oryzacystatin-I is stabilized by a hydrophobic cluster formed between the alpha-helix and the beta-sheet and is considerably similar to that of monellin, a sweet-tasting protein from an African berry, as well as those of the animal cystatins studied, e.g., chicken egg white cystatin and human stefins A and B (also referred to as human cystatins A and B). Detailed structural comparison indicates that oryzacystatin-I is more similar to chicken cystatin, which belongs to the type-2 animal cystatins, than to human stefins A and B, which belong to the type-1 animal cystatins, despite different loop length.
11101479	Intake of unsaponifiable compounds from edible oils, such as plant sterols, can lower serum cholesterol concentrations in humans. However, little is known about effects of other chemically related unsaponifiables in edible oils, such as triterpene alcohols. We studied the effects of plant sterols from rice bran oil and triterpene alcohols from sheanut oil on cholesterol concentrations in healthy, normolipemic volunteers. Twenty-eight men and 32 women consumed 29 g/d of 3 margarines for 3 wk each on a crossover, double-blind basis. A margarine based on sunflower oil was used as the control. Concentrates of plant sterols from rice bran oil or triterpene alcohols from sheanut oil were added to make 2 experimental margarines with the same fatty acid composition as the control margarine. Intake of 2.1 g plant sterols/d from rice bran oil decreased total cholesterol by 0.19 mmol/L (95% CI: -0.31, -0.07 mmol/L) and LDL cholesterol by 0.20 mmol/L (95% CI: -0.30, -0.10 mmol/L). HDL-cholesterol and triacylglycerol concentrations did not change significantly. Intake of 2.6 g triterpene alcohols/d from sheanut oil did not significantly affect lipoprotein concentrations in all subjects combined. We found that 2.1 g plant sterols/d from rice bran oil lowered serum total cholesterol by 5% and LDL cholesterol by 9% in normolipemic humans, whereas triterpene alcohols from sheanut oil did not significantly affect lipoprotein concentrations in all subjects combined. The effect of rice bran oil sterols is probably due to ss-sitosterol and other 4-desmethylsterols and not to 4,4'-dimethylsterols.
11102034	We study the shear response of a sliding multicontact interface submitted to a harmonically modulated normal load, without loss of contact. We measure, at low velocities (V<100 &mgr;m s(-1)), the average value &Fmacr; of the friction force and the amplitude of its first and second harmonic components. The excitation frequency (f=120 Hz) is chosen much larger than the natural one, associated with the dynamical aging of the interface. We show the following: (i) In agreement with the engineering thumb rule, even a modest modulation induces a substantial decrease of &Fmacr;. (ii) The Rice-Ruina state and rate model, though appropriate to describe the slow frictional dynamics, must be extended when dealing with our "high" frequency regime. That is, the rheology which controls the shear strength must explicitly account not only for the plastic response of the adhesive junctions between load-bearing asperities, but also for the elastic contribution of the asperities bodies. This "elastoplastic" friction model leads to predictions in excellent quantitative agreement with all our experimental data.
11103297	Accurate estimation of fluoride dietary intake is desirable for optimising caries prevention. Little is known about the dietary fluoride intake of children aged 4 years, an age when many permanent teeth are forming. This study was undertaken in Fars Province, Iran, in 1995-1996, where there are big differences in temperature between winter and summer. The aims were to determine: (a) the relative contributions of different components of the diet to fluoride intake, (b) the effect of variation in fluoride concentration in drinking water, and (c) the effect of climate temperature. Temperature varied between +40 degrees C in summer to -5 degrees C in winter. The mean fluoride concentrations in drinking water in the three areas were 0.3, 0.6 and 4.0 mgF/L. Dietary information was obtained by two 3-day diet diaries with interview, validated with reference to international standards. The fluoride content of foods was measured using the silicon-facilitated diffusion method. One hundred and three 4-year-old children completed the study. The mean (and 95% confidence interval) dietary fluoride intakes in each of the three areas, respectively, were 413 (+/- 21), 698 (+/- 89) and 3472 (+/- 557) micrograms/day. Drinks provided 72 to 87% of dietary fluoride--this proportion increased with increasing water fluoride concentration and increasing climate temperature. Tea (infusion) was an important source of dietary fluoride, providing 31 to 38% of total dietary intake. Tap water was a more important source of fluoride than soft drinks. Cooked rice and bread were the most important food source of fluoride and the amount of fluoride they contributed increased as water fluoride concentration increased. The results of this first such survey in the Middle East showed (a) that water (as a drink) and tea were by far the most important contributors to dietary fluoride intake, (b) substantial increases in fluoride intake with increasing water fluoride concentrations, and (c) substantially higher fluoride intakes in summer than in the winter.
11103376	To examine nutrient intake of Korean Americans, especially those foods and supplements implicated in cancer. Cross-sectional survey and descriptive analysis. Chicago, IL. 103 Korean Americans who were between 40 and 69 years of age. An Instrument, culturally and linguistically adapted from the Health Habits and History Questionnaire, was administered to assess nutrient intake from food and vitamin and mineral supplements. Bilingual interviewers collected data at respondents' homes. Relative to their diet in Korea, more than one-third of the respondents reported an increase in the consumption of beef, dairy products, coffee, soda, and bread, as well as a decrease in the intake of fish and rice and other grains. Compared to the general U.S. population included in the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), Korean Americans had a greater intake of carbohydrates and vitamins A and C and lower intake of total fat, cholesterol, and saturated fat. Moreover, the percentages of calories were higher from carbohydrates and lower from fat, sweets, and alcohol for Korean Americans than those reported by NHIS respondents. Gender, education, and marital status were significantly associated with nutrient intake. The use of daily vitamin and calcium supplements was similar between respondents and those from NHIS. At their stage of cultural adaptation, the incorporation of a larger quantity of Western food items did not make for a less healthy dietary pattern among respondents. Data showed that Korean Americans continued to consume diets more consistent with Korean than with American food patterns, in as much as greater than 60% of their calories came from carbohydrates and about 16% of calories from fat. As a group, respondents met the recommended dietary guidelines for most nutrients, except for dietary fiber and calcium. Variation in dietary intake by age, culture, gender, and years in the United States is well accepted. Effective cancer prevention and initiatives for dietary reform call for the incorporation of available research findings and considerable attention to data gaps regarding Korean Americans and other Asian Americans and Pacific Islander populations. Culturally competent, community-based programs should include the reinforcement of positive traditional dietary habits, encourage the adaptation of healthy Western food items, as well as assist minority populations in developing strategies that will effectively correct likely deficiencies in diet.
11104259	The effect of high oryzanol rice bran oil (RBO) on the oxidative stability of low-heat and high-heat whole milk powder (WMP) was investigated. Milk (3.6% fat) was fortified with RBO at 0.1 and 0.2% (wt/wt) and was concentrated and dried. Control WMP was made without RBO addition. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) were used to monitor oxidation during storage at 45 degrees C for 40 d. The oxidation of low-heat WMP was significantly reduced by addition of 0.1% RBO, but there was no significant effect on the oxidation of high-heat WMP. An increase of RBO to 0.2% did not significantly improve the oxidative stability when compared with 0.1% RBO. The TBARS in RBO-fortified, low-heat WMP increased with storage time up to 30 d but decreased with further storage to 40 d. The TBARS in all high-heat WMP and low-heat control WMP increased up to 20 d storage and then decreased with further storage. The most likely reason for this increase was due to the reaction of TBARS with milk proteins. Addition of RBO reduced the L (lightness) value and increased the b (yellowness) value but had no effect on the a (redness) value. When compared with the control milk powder, consumers could not detect any effect on the flavor of the reconstituted 0.1% RBO WMP but could detect a flavor difference in the 0.2% RBO WMP.
11105118	To conduct a chronic dietary risk assessment of the pesticides registered in Brazil up until 1999. The Theoretical Maximum Daily Intake (TMDI) for each pesticide was calculated using the Brazilian maximum residue limits and food consumption data from IBGE, the Brazilian Statistical Institute. The risk characterization was done comparing the TMDI with the acceptable daily intakes (ADI) from other countries and from the Codex Alimentarius. The TMDI was higher than the ADI (%ADI>100) at least in one Brazilian metropolitan region for 23 pesticides. Sixteen compounds are organophosphate insecticides, with methyl parathion having the TMDI exceeding the most toxicological parameter (%ADI N=9,300). Rice, beans, citrus and tomato were the commodities which most contributed to the ingestion. From the compounds under higher risk, only 6 were registered according to the Law 98.816/90, which concerns the use of pesticides in the country. The compounds identified in the study as presenting a potential health concern to the Brazilian consumers, and the commodities which most contributed to the ingestion, should be prioritized by the government in pesticide residue monitoring programs and in the re-registration process. In addition, residue data in food as consumed, processing factors and appropriate consumption data should be generated to allow further studies.
11106024	Genomic copies of three Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae avirulence (avr) genes, avrXa7, avrXal0, and avrxa5, and four homologous genes, aB3.5, aB3.6, aB4.3, and aB4.5, were mutagenized individually or in combination to study the roles of avr genes in one component of pathogen fitness, i.e., aggressiveness or the amount of disease X. oryzae pv. oryzae causes in susceptible rice lines. These X. oryzae pv. oryzae genes are members of the highly related Xanthomonas avrBs3 gene family. Compared to the wild-type strain, X. oryzae pv. oryzae strains with mutations in avrXa7, avrxa5, and the four homologous genes caused shorter lesions on rice line IR24, which contains no resistance genes relevant to the wild-type strain. The contribution of each gene to lesion length varied, with avrXa7 contributing the most and avrXal0 showing no measurable effect on aggressiveness. The functional, plasmidborne copies of avrXa7, aB4.5, and avrxa5 restored aggressiveness only to strains with mutations in avrXa7, aB4.5, and avrxa5, respectively. Mutations in avrXa7 were not complemented by plasmids carrying any other avr gene family members. These data indicate that some, but not all, avr family members contribute to pathogen aggressiveness and that the contributions are quantitatively different. Furthermore, despite their sequence similarity, the aggressiveness functions of these gene family members are not interchangeable. The results suggest that selection and pyramiding resistance genes can be guided by the degree of fitness penalty that is empirically determined in avr gene mutations.
11106422	mRNAs encoding a novel thioredoxin were isolated from pollen RNA of Lolium perenne (LpTrx), Hordeum bulbosum (HbTrx), Phalaris coerulescens (PTrx) and Secale cereale (ScTrx). The cDNAs contain a single ORF of 393 bp encoding a protein of 131 amino acids. The predicted proteins showed highest homology to plant thioredoxins of the h class yet form a distinct subgroup that is characterized by a high level of sequence conservation (95.4-97.7% identity). GenBank searches revealed additional members of this subclass in tomato, soybean, rice and pine. LpTrx and PTrx were expressed as recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli and tested for thioredoxin activity. Both proteins displayed typical thioredoxin activity in the nonspecific insulin reduction assay, however, were not reduced by E. coli NADPH-dependant thioredoxin reductase.
11106662	Plant nonsymbiotic hemoglobins are hexacoordinate heme proteins found in all plants. Although expression is linked with hypoxic environmental conditions (Taylor, E. R., Nie, X. Z., Alexander, W. M., and Hill, R. D. (1994) Plant Mol. Biol. 24, 853-862), no discrete physiological function has yet been attributed to this family of proteins. The crystal structure of a nonsymbiotic hemoglobin from rice has recently been determined. The crystalline protein is homodimeric and hexacoordinate with two histidine side chains coordinating the heme iron atom. Despite the fact that the amino acids responsible for the subunit interface are relatively conserved among the nonsymbiotic hemoglobins, previous work suggests that this group of proteins might display variability in quaternary structure (Duff, S. M. G., Wittenberg, J. B., and Hill, R. D. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 16746-16752; Arredondo-Peter, R., Hargrove, M. S., Sarath, G., Moran, J. F., Lohrman, J., Olson, J. S., and Klucas, R. V. (1997) Plant Physiol. 115, 1259-1266). Analytical ultracentrifugation and size exclusion high pressure liquid chromatography were used to investigate the quaternary structure of rice nonsymbiotic hemoglobin at various states of ligation and oxidation. Additionally, site-directed mutagenesis was used to test the role of several interface amino acids in dimer formation and ligand binding. Results were analyzed in light of possible physiological functions and indicate that the plant nonsymbiotic hemoglobins are not oxygen transport proteins but more closely resemble known oxygen sensors.
11106903
11108039	Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was performed for the analysis of the fine structure of rice starch granules in the nanometre scale which were prepared by a physical destruction method. The present study directly demonstrated that fine particles of approximately 30 nm in diameter were present inside each granule and occasionally formed straight chain arrangements. We considered that these fine particles correspond to the individual single cluster in the cluster model which has been proposed in previous studies on the starch granule structure.
11108041	A low-vacuum scanning electron microscope (SEM) allows microscopy of insulating specimens without metal coating, and so preserves the intact colour information on the specimen surface. We have attempted a new approach to characterize constituent distribution of food tissues by a histochemical method utilizing a colour SEM with an optical microscope and the low-vacuum SEM through digital image processing. To observe food tissues such as brown rice and adzuki bean, a colour SEM image of the specimen that has been stained by a modified method used in optical microscope histochemistry has proved to provide information of both the microscopic structure and constituent distribution on the specimen surface.
11109596	Thiamine deficiency can be determined by various clinical signs; some of these symptoms may be acute, and require an urgent diagnosis. In countries such as ours with a high standard of living, this disorder is more commonly observed in cases of severe alcoholism, and cases of diet-associated thiamine deficiency are rare, and therefore not easily recognized. The metabolic disorders resulting from vitamin B1 deficiency are responsible for the well-known central or peripheral neurological symptoms, and also for the less common and often more acute cardiovascular reactions. Immediate thiamine/vitamin B1 supplementation is of major importance. The rapid reversal of symptoms following this treatment is often considered as a diagnostic index. In this study, an original case of diet-associated thiamine deficiency has been reported, with clinical symptoms including myocarditis and subacute peripheral nerve involvement in a young adult. The disorder was the result of a thiamine deficiency in the diet, which was exclusively based on milled rice. The present report is interesting both as regards its clinical aspects and its etiology, and it emphasizes the importance in the differential diagnosis of a given case of taking the possibility of diet-related thiamine deficiency into account, although this is an uncommon etiology in developed countries.
11110209	Land application is one of the major methods of managing municipal sludge in China. The sludge is used for fertilizing and conditioning soil, but due to the high concentration of heavy metals and other chemicals that it contains, improper use of sludge will lead to the contamination of farmland soil. To provide guidance on the application of sludge in China, the Control Standards for Pollutants in Sludge for Agricultural Use (CSPSAU) were enacted, and implemented in 1985. Afterwards, the National Environment Quality Standards for Soil (NEQSS) were also formulated and put into effect in 1996. In this article, these two national standards were examined by means of exposure assessment. The main exposure pathway to humans that was considered was dietary intake of crops grown on the sludge-applied farmland. Five major types of agricultural crops (rice, wheat, tuber roots, vegetables, and fruits) and three groups of exposure population (the urban individual group, the rural sludge-applying individual group, and the rural sludge nonapplying individual group) were assessed. This case study in Tianjin, China, shows the necessity of reexamining the national standards of the CSPSAU and the NEQSS in the context of risk assessment. More comprehensive surveys and monitoring programs assessing heavy metals contained in farmland soils and crop tissues will be necessary for examining the risks to human health.
11112846	Exogenous riboflavin and its dimethylated amino(nor)-derivative roseoflavin were studied in their ability to protect susceptible rice plants from blast disease and to induce fungitoxicity mediated by active oxygen. Both compounds, either added to the inoculum (10 microg/ml) or to soil (40 mg/kg, two days prior to inoculation), induced disease resistance, i.e., diminished the frequency of compatible-type lesions on infected leaves, mainly at the expense of the appearance of hypersensitive spots. Leaf diffusates of untreated plants possessed a weak fungitoxicity that increased slightly after leaf infection or illumination of diffusate. The flavins added to inoculum, to soil, or to a collected diffusate augmented significantly the light-activated part of the diffusate toxicity. In some instances, the light-independent part was stimulated as well. The effect was not due to direct fungitoxicity of flavins as they alone did not interfere with spores regardless of illumination. Antioxidant reagents (superoxide dismutase, catalase, scavengers of hydroxyl radical, and the iron ion chelator desferrioxamine) protected spores from intoxication in almost all cases. This implies the involvement of active oxygen in the toxic and, probably, disease-controlling effects of the flavins. Roseoflavin was a better inducer of disease resistance than riboflavin but was similar in stimulation of diffusate toxicity. However, roseoflavin did not produce superoxide and exhibited only weak fungitoxicity if substituted for riboflavin in the well-known O2--generating model photosystem containing methionine. Therefore, the superoxide generation due to photo-oxidation of methionine or similar substrates is not the cause of the increase of leaf diffusate fungitoxicity and of disease resistance of plants supplied with roseoflavin. It is suggested that the rise in active oxygen production favors a forthcoming hypersensitive reaction, and both phenomena contribute to resistance induced by flavo-compounds. The light-driven activation of oxygen may be of interest as a mode of action of novel fungicides.
11113447	Possible functions that have been proposed for the plant 1Cys-peroxiredoxin, include activity as a dormancy regulator and as an antioxidant. The transcript level of rice 1Cys-peroxiredoxin (R1C-Prx) rapidly decreased after imbibition of rice seeds, but the protein was detected for 15 days after imbibition. To investigate the function of this protein, we generated transgenic tobacco plants constitutively expressing the R1C-Prx gene. The transgenic R1C-Prx plants showed a germination frequency similar to control plants. However, the transgenic lines exhibited higher resistance against oxidative stress, suggesting that antioxidant activity may be its primary function.
11114160	The enhanced disease resistance 1 (edr1) mutation of Arabidopsis confers resistance to powdery mildew disease caused by the fungus Erysiphe cichoracearum. Resistance mediated by the edr1 mutation is correlated with induction of several defense responses, including host cell death. Double mutant analysis revealed that all edr1-associated phenotypes are suppressed by mutations that block salicylic acid (SA) perception (nim1) or reduce SA production (pad4 and eds1). The NahG transgene, which lowers endogenous SA levels, also suppressed edr1. In contrast, the ein2 mutation did not suppress edr1-mediated resistance and associated phenotypes, indicating that ethylene and jasmonic acid-induced responses are not required for edr1 resistance. The EDR1 gene was isolated by positional cloning and was found to encode a putative MAP kinase kinase kinase similar to CTR1, a negative regulator of ethylene responses in Arabidopsis. Taken together, these data suggest that EDR1 functions at the top of a MAP kinase cascade that negatively regulates SA-inducible defense responses. Putative orthologs of EDR1 are present in monocots such as rice and barley, indicating that EDR1 may regulate defense responses in a wide range of crop species.
11115124	Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs), the most abundant serine/threonine kinases in plants, are found in various subcellular localizations, which suggests that this family of kinases may be involved in multiple signal transduction pathways. A complete analysis to try to understand the molecular basis of the presence of CDPKs in various localizations in the cell has not been accomplished yet. It has been suggested that myristoylation may be responsible for membrane association of CDPKs. In this study, we used a rice CDPK, OSCPK2, which has a consensus sequence for myristoylation at the N-terminus, to address this question. We expressed wild-type OSCPK2 and various mutants in different heterologous systems to investigate the factors that affect its membrane association. The results show that OSCPK2 is myristoylated and palmitoylated and targeted to the membrane fraction. Both modifications are required, myristoylation being essential for membrane localization and palmitoylation for its full association. The fact that palmitoylation is a reversible modification may provide a mechanism for regulation of the subcellular localization. OSCPK2 is the first CDPK shown to be targeted to membranes by an src homology domain 4 (SH4) located at the N-terminus of the molecule.
1111620	A 3-D molecular packing of the thick filament is proposed, which is based on the results of a study of the geometrical possibilities of packing together molecules of definite size into a helical filament with definite coordinates of cross-bridges (heads of molecules). There are 18 molecules in the cross-section of the suggested model of the thick filament, 6 in the inner and 12 in the outer hexagonal layer. The helical line of molecules in the outer layer has a pitch of 12 times 14.3 equals 171.6 nm; the tails of the molecules in the inner layer are parallel to the axis of the filament. As the thin filament has a right screw sense (Depue, Rice. 1965), and our rotatory sliding mechanism of contraction requires certain rotatory contacts between the corss-bridges of both filaments, the molecules in the thick filament should have a left screw sense.
11116339	Accumulative characteristics of pesticide residues in the gill, midgut gland, gonad, and the remaining tissues of the bivalve mollusks Anodonta woodiana and Corbicula leana were examined during the rice planting seasons of 1992 and 1994. Although seven pesticides, except thiobencarb, were accumulated all at ppb levels in the midgut gland (liver) and gonad of both bivalves during their application period, thiobencarb was accumulated in C. leana at extremely high levels of 15.70 microg g(-1) in 1992 and 12.45 microg g(-1) in 1994 in the midgut gland and 15.80 microg g(-1) in 1992 and 16.40 microg g(-1) in 1994 in the gonad, respectively. These levels were about 100 times higher than those in A. woodiana. Thiobencarb and molinate in A. woodiana and chlornitrofen (CNP) and molinate in C. leana remained in the gonad and midgut gland longer than in the gill and remaining tissues, while thiobencarb in organs of C. leana remained at ppm levels until the end of the experiments. The present study suggests that these interspecies differences can be attributed to differences between the two species in their ability to eliminate pesticides.
11116669	A series of research and training programmes were undertaken in a rural district in the Mekong Delta area in Vietnam so as to facilitate positive changes in the work and life under the initiatives of the local people. As in other parts of the area, it was amid rapid changes in life-style under the shift toward a market economy. Field research relying on direct observation methods were carried out in various rice field jobs and local small enterprises for understanding the improvement potentials in the work and lives of the local people. To strengthen the local improvement initiatives, participatory training programmes were developed and practiced. In the training programmes, joint walk-through observations using an action checklist were stressed. The results were discussed in small groups and meetings. Interactive communications between the local people, while visiting their own houses and workplaces, took place. Based on these field research results, various positive changes were successfully implemented. They included a wide range of improvements such as more efficient work methods, safer use of technologies, hygienic housing conditions, and improved household plans. Our experiences demonstrated that practical approaches relying on local initiatives could facilitate the implementation of positive changes in the local socio-cultural settings.
11117879	[14C4]GA53, [14C4]GA44, and [2H2/14C4]GA19 were injected separately into seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa) using a dwarf mutant (d35) that has low levels of endogenous gibberellins (GAs). After 8 h incubation, the shoots were extracted and the labeled metabolites were identified by full-scan gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and Kovats retention indices (KRIs). Our results document the metabolic sequence, GA53-->GA44-->GA19-->GA20 and the presence of endogenous GA53, GA44, GA19, GA20 and GA1. Previous metabolic studies have shown the presence of the step, GA20-->GA1 in rice. Taken together, the data establish in vegetative shoots of rice the presence of the early 13-hydroxylation pathway, a pathway that originates from GA12 and leads to bioactive GA1.
11118226	The cDNA encoding rice methionyl-tRNA synthetase was isolated. The protein exhibited a C-terminal polypeptide appended to a classical MetRS domain. This supplementary domain is related to endothelial monocyte activating polypeptide II (EMAPII), a cytokine produced in mammals after cleavage of p43, a component of the multisynthetase complex. It is also related to Arc1p and Trbp111, two tRNA binding proteins. We expressed rice MetRS and a derivative with a deletion of its EMAPII-like domain. Band-shift analysis showed that this extra-domain provides MetRS with non-specific tRNA binding properties. The EMAPII-like domain contributed a 10-fold decrease in K:(M) for tRNA in the aminoacylation reaction catalyzed by the native enzyme, as compared with the C-terminally truncated MetRS. Consequently, the EMAPII domain provides MetRS with a better catalytic efficiency at the free tRNA concentration prevailing in vivo. This domain binds the acceptor minihelix of tRNA(Met) and facilitates its aminoacylation. These results suggest that the EMAPII module could be a relic of an ancient tRNA binding domain that was incorporated into primordial synthetases for aminoacylation of RNA minihelices taken as the ancestor of modern tRNA.
11118604	With the aim of modifying secondary metabolism in Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cells, gene transfer was performed using the sam1 gene from Arabidopsis thaliana under the control of the salT promoter. This promoter is induced by ABA in rice and in tobacco and we have shown that it is also induced in poppy cells (gus gene). Putatively transformed poppy and tobacco cell lines with the sam1 gene were obtained. In the absence of exogenous inducer we noticed the expression of the transgene resulting in a significant increase of SAM-S activity in all tested transformants of poppy and in half the transgenic tobacco cell lines tested. Addition of ABA to the culture medium failed to enhance the expression of the transgene in both species and resulted in a decrease of the sam1 gene expression in some cell lines. Since the salT promoter is induced by exogenous ABA in both species (gus reporter gene), we suggest a partial sam1 transgene inactivation in certain cell lines. These results show that the efficiency of a regulatory sequence may be different when fused with a reporter gene (gus) compared to fusion with a gene belonging to the housekeeping family (sam1).
11119069	A multicenter collaborative study was performed to investigate the prevalence of abnormal blood contents of 6 trace metals, copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), aluminum (Al), lead (Pb), cadmium (Cd), and mercury (Hg), in hemodialysis (HD) patients and to analyze their relationship with the medications, such as CaCO3, Ca acetate, Al containing phosphate-binding agents, 1,25-dihydroxy vitD3, 1-hydroxy vitD3, and erythropoietin (EPO), as well as hematocrit level, by chi-square statistics. From 6 medical centers in Taiwan, we included 456 patients in maintenance HD for more than 4 months for this study, and they had continued the previously mentioned medications for at least 3 months. Blood samples were collected before initiating HD, and atomic absorption spectrophotometry was used to measure plasma levels of Cu, Zn, and Al as well as whole blood levels of Pb, Cd, and Hg. Three hundred seventy-five (78%) of the HD patients had low plasma Zn levels, that is, <800 microg/L, and the mean (+/-SD) concentration was 705.8 (+/-128.23) microg/L in all subjects. One hundred forty-one (31%) of the HD patients had high plasma Al, that is, >50 microg/L, and the mean (+/-SD) was 44.30 (+/-28.28) microg/L in all subjects. Three hundred thirty-three (73%) of the dialysis patients had high Cd levels, that is, >2.5 microg/L, and the mean (+/-SD) was 3.32 (+/-1.49) microg/L in all subjects. The majority of HD patients had normal blood levels of Cu, PB, and Hg. Only 21 (4. 6%), 5 (1.1%), and 3 (0.06%) patients had elevated blood levels of Cu, Pb, and Hg, respectively. Their mean (+/-SD) blood concentration of Cu, Pb, and Hg were 1,049.78 (+/-233.25) microg/L, 7.45 (+/-3.95) microg/dL, and 3.17 (+/-25.56) microg/L, respectively. Three patients had elevated plasma Hg concentrations, that is, 546, 12.6, and 24.0 microg/L, respectively. In the 152 normal healthy age and sex matched control group, the blood levels of Al, Cd, and Pb were all significantly lower than the HD patients. However, the levels of Cu and Zn were higher in the control group. The Hg level was not significantly different in both groups. There was no statistical difference between patients with normal and abnormal blood levels of trace metals in various medications except Al containing phosphate binder. The Al containing phosphate binder users had significantly higher plasma Al levels (54.71 +/- 26.70 versus 41.15 +/- 28.03 microg/L, p < 0.001) and hematocrit levels (29.61 +/- 4.61 versus 27. 81 +/- 3.91, p < 0.0005). There was no statistical correlation between erythropoietin (EPO) dose and hematocrit level in these patients. In conclusion, the blood level of trace metals of these HD patients except Al was not related to their medications. However, caution must be exercised in interpreting this result as dose and duration of medication; efficiency of HD and water treatment may play an important role. Otherwise, environmental factors, diet, and the aging process may contribute to the trace metal burden in uremia. Thus, Zn and Cu are abundant in seafood, and Cd is abundant in contaminated plants such as rice.
11120470
11120584	I draw attention to the perceptions of and interactions between molecular biologists and scientists engaged in plant breeding in India, who have been attempting to employ molecular biology tools to understand and intervene to improve the rice crop. The present essay suggests that the concept of cognitive empathy is crucial for enabling basic scientists and applied scientists to begin to understand phenomena from the point of view of the other and from the point of view of society at large, and in arriving at solutions that are scientifically feasible and socially acceptable. Socialization into disciplinary cultures, organizational factors and individual anxieties seem to inhibit inter-disciplinary collaboration. The majority of rice breeders and a small group of molecular biologists emphasize the relative merits of marker-assisted selection (MAS) in the near term vis--vis the currently controversial transgenic approach for rice crop improvement in India.
11123854	It is now widely accepted that atherosclerosis is a complex multicellular process involving oxidation of cholesterol and the intracellular accumulation of oxidized cholesterol. This accumulation causes a cascade of inflammatory processes, resulting in an unstable atherosclerotic plaque that ultimately bursts, causing myocardial infarction. Botanical dietary supplements (herbs) can ameliorate this process and prevent cardiovascular disease at many steps in the process. Many herbs have antioxidant activity and can reduce low-density lipoprotein oxidation. Some phytosterols found in botanicals can inhibit cholesterol absorption. After a brief review of herbs being promoted for achieving and maintaining healthy cholesterol levels, the evidence and future prospects for Chinese red yeast rice, the main component of dietary supplements with HMG-CoA reductase inhibiting activity, are discussed in detail. Initial phase II clinical trials are highly encouraging. This herb is likely to be able to directly impact the process of atherosclerosis, but large-scale clinical trials are needed to assess the public health potential of this herbal supplement.
11124253	Nuclear import of proteins that contain classical nuclear localization signals (NLS) is initiated by importin alpha, a protein that recognizes and binds to the NLS in the cytoplasm. In this paper, we have cloned a cDNA for a novel importin alpha homologue from rice which is in addition to our previously isolated rice importin alpha1a and alpha2, and we have named it rice importin alpha1b. In vitro binding and nuclear import assays using recombinant importin alpha1b protein demonstrate that rice importin alpha1b functions as a component of the NLS-receptor in plant cells. Analysis of the transcript levels for all three rice importin alpha genes revealed that the genes were not only differentially expressed but that they also responded to dark-adaptation in green leaves. Furthermore, we also show that the COP1 protein bears a bipartite-type NLS and its nuclear import is mediated preferentially by the rice importin alpha1b. These data suggest that each of the different rice importin alpha proteins carry distinct groups of nuclear proteins, such that multiple isoforms of importin alpha contribute to the regulation of plant nuclear protein transport.
11127339	A randomized pilot study was carried out to compare the safety and effectiveness of rice powder salt solution (RPSS) in combination with milk-rice mixture (RPSS-MR group, n = 17) with other two regimens, glucose-based oral rehydration solution (ORS) combined with MR (ORS-MR group, n = 17) and ORS combined with formula milk (ORS-milk group, n = 14) in the treatment of acute watery diarrhea with mild to moderate dehydration in 48 boys younger than 2 years. Results showed that in the first 24 hours patients in the RPSS-MR group had significantly smaller amounts of stool weight (32.7 g/kg) than those in the ORS-MR group (67.5 g/kg) and ORS-milk group (59.2 g/kg) (p< 0.05 for both measurements). Patients in the RPSS-MR group also had significantly shorter duration of diarrhea (29.6 hours) than the other two groups (43.8 hours and 49.6 hours, respectively) (p < 0.05 for both measurements). The stool weight and duration of diarrhea between the ORS-MR group and the ORS-milk group were not significantly different. The positive effect of milk rice mixture was not demonstrated in the study due to the significantly more severe diarrhea in the ORS-MR group. The effectiveness of the RPSS-MR is therefore likely due to mainly RPSS.
11129051	Transgenic rice cell lines transformed with a heterologous cDNA derived from the arginine decarboxylase gene of oat, in an antisense orientation, exhibited significant (P < 0.05) down-regulation of the activity of the endogenous arginine and ornithine decarboxylases, compared to wild type and controls transformed only with the selectable marker (hpt). Changes in enzyme activity were reflected in a marked decrease in the level of putrescine (P < 0.001) and spermidine (P < 0.01) but not spermine (P > 0.05) in the majority of cell lines analyzed. In agreement with previous results, we confirmed that cell lines with low levels of polyamines exhibited normal morphogenic responses. In vegetative tissue at the whole plant level no significant variation (P > 0.05) in polyamine levels was observed. However, we measured significant reductions (P < 0.001) in putrescine levels in seeds derived from three out of five plants analyzed in detail. Thus, simultaneous reduction of the activity of the two alternative enzymes in the early steps of the polyamine pathway results in significant reduction in end-product accumulation in the seeds of transgenic plants.
11129607	The effect of miso on allergenic proteins in rice seeds was investigated. When polished rice grains were incubated at 37 degrees C for 30-120 min with a 10% miso solution, but not with heat-treated miso or 1% NaCl, the amount of soluble proteins extracted from the rice grains with 1 M NaCl markedly decreased. SDS-PAGE, immunoblotting and densitometric analyses of these soluble proteins and insoluble proteins indicate that 26 kDa globulin and 14-16 kDa allergens in the grains were decreased to 15-60% during incubation with the miso solution, especially soybean-koji miso, without any large change in the content of major insoluble proteins.
11129699	The effects of nitrogenous (inorganic) fertilisers, organic manures and blue-green algae (BGA) biofertiliser on mosquito populations (Diptera: Culicidae) were studied in rice fields of Madurai, Tamil Nadu, south India, with particular attention to Culex vishnui Theobald, Cx. pseudovishnui Colless and Cx. tritaeniorhynchus Giles, the vectors of Japanese encephalitis (JE). The application of urea, a nitrogenous fertiliser, in rice fields significantly increased the grain yield and the population densities of mosquito larvae and pupae (anophelines as well as culicines) in a dose-related manner. Fields treated with inorganic fertilisers (N, P, K) had significantly higher population densities of mosquito immatures than fields treated with organic manures (farmyard manure and green manure). Without nitrogenous fertiliser, BGA increased paddy yield without enhancing mosquito production. Therefore, the use of BGA with less nitrogenous fertiliser is recommended, which is beneficial economically and agronomically to the farming community and also significantly reduces mosquito production in rice fields. Increased use of nitrogenous fertiliser over the past two decades may have contributed to the increased severity of Japanese encephalitis epidemics, vectors of which breed in rice fields.
11129708	Culex tritaeniorhynchus Giles and Cx. gelidus Theobald (Diptera: Culicidae), both vectors of Japanese encephalitis, were collected in 1984 and 1998 from two disease endemic localities in Sri Lanka: Anaradhapura and Kandy. Using wild-caught adult mosquitoes from light traps, log dosage-probit mortality curves for insecticide bioassays were obtained for three insecticides: malathion (organophosphate), propoxur (carbamate) and permethrin (pyrethroid). LD50 values showed that, in 1998, Cx. tritaeniorhynchus was -100-fold more resistant to malathion and 10-fold more resistant to propoxur than was Cx. gelidus. This difference was attributed to Cx. tritaeniorhynchus breeding mostly in irrigated rice paddy fields, where it would have been exposed to pesticide selection pressure, whereas Cx. gelidus breeds in other types of aquatic habitats less prone to pesticide applications. Resistance in Cx. tritaeniorhynchus increased between 1984 and 1998, whereas Cx. gelidus remained predominantly susceptible. Propoxur inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity (the target site of organophosphates and carbamates) indicated that in 1998, frequencies of insensitive AChE-based resistance were 9% in Cx. gelidus and 2-23% in Cx. tritaeniorhynchus, whereas in 1984 this resistance mechanism was detected only in 2% of the latter species from Anaradhapura. The AChE inhibition coefficient (ki) with propoxur was 1.86+/-0.24 x 10(5) M(-)1 min(-1) for Cx. tritaeniorhynchus from Anaradhapura in 1998. Both species were tested for activity levels of detoxifying glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and malathion-specific as well as general carboxylesterases. High activities of GSTs and carboxylesterases were detected in Cx. tritaeniorhynchus but not Cx. gelidus. Malathion-specific carboxylesterase was absent from both species. Native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis resolved two elevated general carboxylesterases, CtrEstbeta1 and CtrEstalpha1, from Cx. tritaeniorhynchus and none from Cx. gelidus. CtrEstbeta1 was the most intensely staining band. Gel inhibition experiments showed that both elevated esterases were inhibited by organophosphates and carbamates but not by pyrethroids. The major elevated esterase CtrEstbeta1 was partially purified (15-fold) by sequential Q-Sepharose and phenyl Sepharose column chromatography. The bimolecular rate constant (ka) and the deacylation rate constant (k3) for the malaoxon/enzyme interaction were 9.9+/-1.1 x 10(3) M(-1) min(-1) and 3.5+/-0.05 x 10(-4) M(-1) min(-1), respectively, demonstrating that the role of this enzyme in organophosphorus insecticide resistance is sequestration.
11131287	In a field experiment on dew formation in tropical paddy rice, the threshold value for the nocturnal net radiative loss required for dew formation was investigated during 23 nights from February to April 1994. The onset and cessation of dew were visually observed on both the top leaves of a rice crop and on a glass sphere, the "dewball", installed in the field 1.0 m above the ground. The threshold value for the nocturnal net radiative loss (Rn,thresh) necessary for dew formation on the ball was deduced from the maximum zenith angle on the ball surface reached by the dew formed. Rn,thresh was found to be linearly related to the nightly minimum vapour-pressure deficit. This linear relationship as well as the Penman-Monteith equation (an energy-balance approach) were used to predict both the time of dew onset and the duration of dew on the ball. These predicted values agreed well with the observed results. Dew duration and time of dew onset on the ball were well correlated. During most nights, dew began to form on the top leaf surfaces at almost the same time as it reached the zenith angle of 60 degrees on the ball. A linear relationship was found between the observed daily duration of dew on the top leaf surfaces of the rice crop and the estimated time when dew reached the zenith angle of 60 degrees on the ball. This relationship gave as accurate an estimation of dew duration on the top leaf surface of the rice crop as did the Penman-Monteith combination equation. This study showed that the dewball is a potentially useful device for observing dew formation.
1113195	Liquid whey has long been known to contain proteins of high nutritional value, but their use in human nutrition has been complicated by the high lactose and low protein contents of the whey. Modern technological processes of gel filtration and ultrafiltration have made possible the production of whey protein concentrates (WPC) low in lactose. In this investigation, the supplementary effect of WPC on maize and rice proteins was compared with the corresponding effect of dried skim milk (DSM). Protein quality was studied by chemical and biological methods on growing rats. Biological tests performed on both raw and boiled protein mixtures showed WPC to be superior to DSM in supplementing maize and rice proteins. The nutritive value of a potato-WPC mixture was also studied and compared with those of potato-lactalbumin and potato-egg mixtures, both of which are known to contain protein of very high quality for man. The comparison indicated that a potato-WPC mixture may also possess high protein quality.
1113202	The nutritional values of the whole grain principal cereals, namely, wheat, rice, corn, and a millet bajra, were investigated by growth studies and studies on ascorbic acid metabolism in rats and guinea pigs. Growth was markedly retarded by feeding the rats unfortified whole grain cereals. Among the whole grain cereals, rice provided the lowest nutritional value, and the cooking of rice affected the nutritional value further. In weanling rats, ascorbic acid synthesis at the subcellular level was inhibited, and tissue storage of ascorbic acid was decreased in rats fed whole grain cereals. In guinea pigs fed whole grain cereals, the utilization of ascorbic acid was increased. Ascorbic acid supplementation at various levels indicated that the requirement for ascorbic acid increased five times in guinea pigs fed whole grain cereals. The increased intake of the vitamin was not needed when the whole grain cereals were enriched with 15% casein.
1113203	Iron at a daily dose of 5 mg per animal was toxic to rats and guinea pigs fed unfortified whole wheat flour and whole rice flour diets. In rats, a species capable of synthesizing ascorbic acid, iron supplementation resulted only in decreased growth. In guinea pigs, iron administration resulted not only in decreased growth but also in high mortality. The apparent toxicity of iron was not observed when wheat flour was fortified with 15% casein. In guinea pigs, administration of ascorbic acid (k mg per 100 g body weight per day) along with iron not only counteracted the toxic effect of iron, but also led to a greater utilization of iron as revealed by increased hemoglobin and serum iron levels accompanied by decreased spleen iron content. Iron administration, however, resulted in decreased ascorbic acid synthesis (in rats only) and increased ascorbic acid utilization as revealed by lowered urinary, blood, and other tissue levels of the vitamin.
11132494	In an effort to clone a rice blast resistance gene, Pi-2(t), a BAC contig consisting of 22 BAC clones covering the whole Pi-2(t) region, was constructed using marker-based chromosome landing and chromosome walking. The genetic span of this physical map is 8 cM, but the physical size is 925 kb. The physical map forms the base of further isolation and cloning of Pi-2(t) gene, it will provide new markers for molecular marker-aided selection of new blast resistance materials in rice.
11132495	Complete diallel crosses with seven varieties of black pericarp rice were conducted in one year to analyze the genetic effects on main mineral elements of Fe, Zn, Mn and P contents in kernels of parents and their F1S and F2S, using the full genetic model including triploid endosperm, cytoplasmic and maternal effects on quantitative traits of seeds in cereal crops. The results indicated that the contents of all the four mineral elements were controlled by seed direct genetic effects, maternal genetic effects as well as by cytoplasmic effects. The seed direct genetic effects were more important than the maternal genetic effects for Fe, Zn, Mn contents, and seed direct additive effects constituted a major part of their genetic effects, whereas seed direct additive, maternal additive and dominant effects formed the main part in the inheritance of P content. The heritabilities of seed direct effects of the 4 mineral element contents were all highly significant. The estimate values of narrow heritabilites of seed direct genetic effects were high for Fe, Zn and Mn contents, while those of seed and maternal effects were intermediate for P content. Therefore, more attention should be paid to the single plant selection and single grain selection based on the seed mineral element contents of hybrid offspring.
11133452	Xanthomonadins are yellow, membrane-bound pigments produced by members of the genus Xanthomonas. We identified an ethyl methanesulfonate-induced Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae mutant (BXO65) that is deficient for xanthomonadin production and virulence on rice, as well as auxotrophic for aromatic amino acids (Pig(-) Vir(-) Aro(-)). Reversion analysis indicated that these multiple phenotypes are due to a single mutation. A genomic library of the wild-type strain was used to isolate a 7.0-kb clone that complements BXO65. By transposon mutagenesis, marker exchange, sequence analysis, and subcloning, the complementing activity was localized to a 849-bp open reading frame (ORF). This ORF is homologous to the aroE gene, which encodes shikimate dehydrogenase in various bacterial species. Shikimate dehydrogenase activity was present in the wild-type strain and the mutant with the complementing clone, whereas no activity was found in BXO65. This clone also complemented an Escherichia coli aroE mutant for prototrophy, indicating that aroE is functionally conserved in X. oryzae pv. oryzae and E. coli. The nucleotide sequence of the 2.9-kb region containing aroE revealed that a putative DNA helicase gene is located adjacent to aroE. Our results indicate that aroE is required for normal levels of virulence and xanthomonadin production in X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
11134425	Pre-treatment of rice roots for 2 h in aerobic conditions with two phospholipase C (PLC) antagonists, neomycin and compound 48/80 (C48/80), inhibited accumulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid and increased the loss of K+ in the medium during 3 h of anoxia. The presence of Ca2+ and A23187 (Ca2+ ionophore) nullified the effect of PLC inhibitors. Pre-treatment of rice roots with neomycin and C48/80 abolished the anaerobic increase in the concentration of the PLC product inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate. Stimulation of the anaerobic signal transduction pathway with aluminium fluoride (G protein activator) was attenuated by PLC inhibitors. These findings are consistent with the participation of PLC in the anaerobic response.
11136791	The methods currently available for the identification of the pathogenic yeast Candida dubliniensis all have disadvantages in that they are time-consuming, expensive, and/or, in some cases, unreliable. In a recent study (P. Staib and J. Morschhuser, Mycoses 42:521-524; 1999) of 14 C. dubliniensis and 11 C. albicans isolates, it was suggested that the ability of C. dubliniensis to produce rough colonies and chlamydospores (chlamydoconidia) on Staib agar (SA) provided a simple means of differentiating it from its close relative C. albicans. In the present investigation, we examined the colony morphology and chlamydospore production of 130 C. dubliniensis and 166 C. albicans isolates on SA and on the related defined medium caffeic acid-ferric citrate agar (CAF). All of the C. dubliniensis and C. albicans isolates produced chlamydospores on the control medium, i.e., rice-agar-Tween agar. However, while none of the C. albicans isolates produced chlamydospores on either SA or CAF, 85.4 and 83.8% of the C. dubliniensis isolates produced chlamydospores on SA and CAF, respectively. All of the C. albicans isolates grew as smooth, shiny colonies on SA after 48 to 72 h of incubation at 30 degrees C, while 97.7% of the C. dubliniensis isolates grew as rough colonies, many (65%) with a hyphal fringe. In contrast, 87.4% of the C. albicans and 93.8% of the C. dubliniensis isolates yielded rough colonies on CAF. Although the results of this study confirm that SA is a good medium for distinguishing between C. dubliniensis and C. albicans, we believe that discrimination between these two species is best achieved on the basis of colony morphology rather than chlamydospore production.
11137290	We describe a new subfamily of WD repeat proteins characterised by the presence of a C3H zinc finger at the N-terminal part of the protein associated with seven WD40 repeats. We have identified four members of this subfamily in Arabidopsis thaliana, one of them with associated expressed sequence tags (ESTs). We have also identified homologous ESTs in rice, cotton, maize, poplar, pine tree and the ice plant. We do not observe animal homologues, suggesting that this subfamily could be specific for plants. Our data suggest an important role for these proteins. Based on the high sequence conservation within the conserved domains, we suggest that these proteins could have a regulatory function.
11137457	Ophiobolin A, a fungal toxin that affects rice and maize, inhibits calmodulin by reacting with the lysine residues in calmodulin. Previous studies have shown that lysines 75, 77 and 148 in the calmodulin molecule were the binding sites for ophiobolin A, and that lysine 75 was the primary inhibitory site. In this study, we used kinetic analysis and mutated calmodulins to further characterize the inhibition process. The inhibition of bovine-brain calmodulin by ophiobolin A in the presence of excess ophiobolin A occurred rapidly and followed pseudo-first-order kinetics with a second-order rate constant of 3470 M(-1) min(-1). The kinetics data indicated that the binding of a single ophiobolin A molecule was enough to inactivate a calmodulin molecule. Mutant calmodulins in which two of the three aforementioned binding sites for ophiobolin A had been removed by site-directed mutagenesis were examined for the role of each of the three lysines in the inhibition. It was found that when lysine 75 or 77 in the mutant calmodulin was reacted with ophiobolin A, the resulting calmodulin became a poor activator of phosphodiestease. These results provide further evidence that lysine 75 in calmodulin is the primary inhibitory site for ophiobolin A.
11137607	Anoxic soils, such as flooded rice fields, are major sources of the greenhouse gas CH(4) while oxic upland soils are major sinks of atmospheric CH(4). Nevertheless, CH(4) is also consumed in rice fields where up to 90% of the produced CH(4) is oxidized in a narrow oxic zone around the rice roots and in the soil surface layer before it escapes into the atmosphere. After 1 day drainage of rice field soil, CH(4) oxidation was detected in the top 2-mm soil layers, but after 8 days drainage the zone of CH(4) oxidation extended to 8 mm depth. Simultaneously, the potential for CH(4) production decreased, but some production was still detectable after 8 days drainage throughout the soil profile. The vertical distribution of the methanotrophic community was also monitored after 1 and 8 days drainage using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis after PCR amplification with primer sets targeting two regions on the 16S rRNA gene that are relatively specific for methylotrophic alpha- and gamma-Proteobacteria, and targeting two functional genes encoding subunits of key enzymes in all methanotrophs, i.e. the genes for the particulate methane monooxygenase (pmoA) and the methanol dehydrogenase (mxaF). Drainage stimulated the methanotrophic community. Eight days after drainage, new methanotrophic populations appeared and a distinct methanotrophic community developed. The population structure of type I and II methanotrophs was differently affected by drainage. Type II methanotrophs (alpha-Proteobacteria) were present throughout the soil core directly after drainage (1 day), and the community composition remained largely unchanged with depth. Only two new type II populations appeared after 8 days of drainage. Drainage had a more pronounced impact on the type I methanotrophic community (gamma-Proteobacteria). Type I populations were not or only weakly detected 1 day after drainage. However, after 8 days of drainage, a large diversity of type I methanotrophs were detected, altough they were not evenly distributed throughout the soil core but dominated at different depths. A distinct type I community structure had developed within each soil section between 0 and 20 mm soil depth, indicating the widening of suitable habitats for methanotrophs in the rice field soil within 1 week of drainage.
11138087	Using the boundary conditions method, we find normal solutions to a kinetic equation proposed recently by us [Physica A 234, 89 (1996)] to describe nonequilibrium properties of classical liquids. As a result, explicit expressions for the transport coefficients and macroscopic conservation laws are obtained in the first order for gradients of hydrodynamic parameters. In some particular cases, these expressions are reduced to those corresponding to the well-known Enskog, Davis-Rice-Sengers, and mean-field kinetic theories. It is demonstrated that our approach allows an accurate reproduction of experimental and molecular dynamics data for the transport coefficients of liquid argon in a wide density-temperature range.
11138942	To better understand the genetic diversity of the wild relatives of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in the O. officinalis species complex repetitive DNA markers were obtained from the diploid species of this complex. One cloned sequence from O. eichingeri gave intense hybridization signals with all species of the O. officinalis complex. This 242 bp clone, named pOe.49, has a copy number from 0.9 to 4.0 x 10(4) in diploid species of this complex. Analysis of the primary structure and database searches revealed homology of pOe.49 to a number of sequences representing part of the integrase coding domain of retroviruses and gypsy-like retrotransposons. Sequencing of specific PCR products confirmed that pOe.49 is part of a gypsy-like retrotransposon. RFLP analysis was used to study the genomic organisation of pOe.49 among 30 accessions of the O. officinalis complex using 10 restriction enzymes. Diversity analysis based on 120 polymorphic fragments obtained from the RFLP assay grouped the O. officinalis complex accessions by genome, species and eco-geographic groups. The results suggest that, with further characterization, this retrotransposon-like DNA sequence may be useful for phylogenetic analysis of species in the O. officinalis complex.
11139181	In a laboratory incubation study, the effect of select heavy metals on methane (CH4) oxidation in two rice soils was investigated under two moisture regimes. Heavy metals differed in their effect on CH4 oxidation in both soils under the two water regimes. Cr significantly inhibited CH4 oxidation in the alluvial soil at 60% moisture holding capacity, while Cu stimulated the process. On the contrary, Zn inhibited CH4 oxidation in both alluvial and laterite soils only under flooded conditions. Application of rice straw alleviated the inhibitory effect of heavy metals on CH4 oxidation and CO2 production. Inhibition of CH4 oxidation in the alluvial soil was related to the methanotrophic bacterial population in Cr- and Zn-amended alluvial soil.
11139406	S-Adenosyl-L-methionine decarboxylase (AdoMetDC; EC 4.1.1.50) is one of the key regulatory enzymes in the biosynthesis of polyamines. Isolation of genomic and cDNA sequences from rice and Arabidopsis had indicated that this enzyme is encoded by a small multigene family in monocot and dicot plants. Analysis of rice, maize and Arabidopsis AdoMetDC cDNA species revealed that the monocot enzyme possesses an extended C-terminus relative to dicot and human enzymes. Interestingly, we discovered that all expressed plant AdoMetDC mRNA 5' leader sequences contain a highly conserved pair of overlapping upstream open reading frames (uORFs) that overlap by one base. The 5' tiny uORF consists of two or three codons and the 3' small uORF encodes 50-54 residues. Sequences of the small uORFs are highly conserved between monocot, dicot and gymnosperm AdoMetDC mRNA species and the C-terminus of the plant small uORFs is conserved with the C-terminus of nematode AdoMetDC uORFs; such a conserved arrangement is strongly suggestive of a translational regulatory mechanism. No introns were found in the main AdoMetDC proenzyme ORF from any of the plant genes encoding AdoMetDC, whereas introns were found in conserved positions flanking the overlapping uORFs. The absence of the furthest 3' intron from the Arabidopsis gene encoding AdoMetDC2 suggests that this intron was lost recently. Reverse-transcriptase-mediated PCR analysis of the two Arabidopsis genes for AdoMetDC indicated that AdoMetDC1 is abundant and ubiquitous, whereas the gene for AdoMetDC2 is expressed preferentially in leaves and inflorescences. Investigation of recently released Arabidopsis genome sequences has revealed that in addition to the two genes encoding AdoMetDC isolated as part of the present work, four additional genes are present in Arabidopsis but they are probably not expressed.
11139516	We previously isolated a complete set of primary trisomics along with many other aneuploids from triploid plants derived from an indica rice variety "Zhongxian 3037." About 30,000 progeny from these trisomic and aneuploid plants were grown each year from 1994 to 1999. The variants that differed morphologically from both the diploids and the original primary trisomics were collected for cytological identification. From these variants, a complete set of telotrisomics covering all 24 rice chromosome arms was obtained. The identities of the extra chromosomes were further confirmed by dosage analysis of the RFLP markers on extra chromosome arms. The telocentric nature of the extra chromosomes in these stocks was verified by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using a rice centromeric BAC clone as a marker probe. In general, the shorter the extra chromosome arm of a telotrisomic, the stronger the resemblance it bears to the diploid; the longer the extra chromosome arm, the stronger the resemblance to the corresponding primary trisomic. We demonstrated that DNA clones can be rapidly assigned to specific chromosome arms by dosage analysis with the telotrisomics. We also showed that telotrisomics are valuable tools for chromosome microdissection and for developing chromosome-specific DNA markers.
11139577	cis,trans-Abscisic acid (ABA) plays an important role in plant growth and development, regulation of seed maturation, germination, and adaptation to environmental stresses. Knowledge of ABA mechanisms of action and the interactions of components required for ABA signal transduction is far from complete. Using transient gene expression in rice protoplasts, we observed additive and inhibitory effects between maize VP1 (Viviparous-1, a transcriptional activator) and a dominant-negative mutant protein phosphatase, ABI1-1 (ABA-insensitive-1-1), from Arabidopsis. Lanthanide ions were shown to be specific agonists of ABA-inducible gene expression and to interact synergistically with ABA and overexpressed VP1. Both VP1 and lanthanum activities could be antagonized by coexpression of ABI1-1, which demonstrates the specific ABA dependence of these effectors on ABA-regulated gene expression. We obtained pharmacological evidence that phospholipase D (PLD) functions in ABA-inducible gene expression in rice. Antagonism of ABA, VP1, and lanthanum synergy by 1-butanol, a specific inhibitor of PLD, was similar to the inhibition by coexpression of ABI1-1. These results demonstrate that ABA, VP1, lanthanum, PLD, and ABI1 are all involved in ABA-regulated gene expression and are consistent with an integrated model whereby La(3+) acts upstream of PLD.
11139585	Cereal proteins are known to cause allergic reactions such as Baker's asthma and severe atopic dermatitis to certain populations. In rice allergy, proteins with molecular masses of 14-16, 26, 33, and 56 kDa have been demonstrated to be potentially allergenic. In this study, to identify and characterize the 33-kDa allergen, designated Glb33, this protein was first purified to homogeneity, and its cDNA clone was isolated. When expressed in Escherichia coli, the recombinant Glb33 was shown to be as reactive as the native Glb33 with mouse IgG and patients' IgE antibodies to Glb33. The Glb33 cDNA coded for a protein of 291 amino acids with two 120-amino acid residue repeats, and the amino acid sequence showed similarity to glyoxalase I from various organisms, including human, plant, yeast, and bacterium. As expected, both native Glb33 purified from rice seeds and the recombinant protein had glyoxalase I activity that catalyzes condensation of methylglyoxal and glutathione into S-lactoylglutathione. However, Glb33 had a higher sequence identity to the bacterial glyoxalase I rather than to known plant and yeast enzymes. Both the Glb33 transcript and the protein were detected not only in maturing seeds of rice but also in its stem and leaf. Taken all together, the rice allergen, Glb33, was identified to be a novel type of plant glyoxalase I that is expressed in various plant tissues, including maturing seeds.
11141171	The expression of a lipid transfer protein (LTP) gene is regulated in Oryza sativa roots in response to colonization by the mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae. Transcript levels increased when the fungus forms appressoria and penetrates the root epidermis and decreased at the onset of the intercellular colonization of the root cortex. The analysis of histochemical GUS staining in transgenic rice plants carrying the Ltp/Gus construct confirm the induction of LTP: gene associated with fungal appressoria formation and penetration area. The induction of Ltp gene expression coincided in time with a transient increase in the expression of a phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL:) gene and a transient accumulation of salicylic acid (SA) in the mycorrhizal roots. The expression of LTP: and PAL: was induced in rice roots after treatment with SA and Pseudomonas syringae indicating that both genes could be implicated in the plant defence response. The exogenous application of SA to rice interacting with the mycorrhizal fungus did not affect appressoria formation but, instead, resulted in a transient delay of root mycorrhization. Nevertheless, although LTP: maintained a prolonged SA-induced expression level, mycorrhizal formation could still proceed.
11142312	We quantified variation in performance under greenhouse conditions among seven populations of Scirpophaga incertulas (Walker) from Luzon Island, Philippines, on three rice varieties: 'IR58' transformed with the cry1Ab gene from Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner, and nontransgenic IR58 and IR62. On IR62, S. incertutas performance did not differ among provinces for any of the 10 parameters measured, but there was a significant effect of town within province for one parameter, 20-d-old larval weight. Larval survival after 48 h on cy1Ab-transformed IR58 did not differ significantly among provinces, but did differ significantly among towns within a province. There was no geographic variation in larval survival after 48 h on control plants of IR58. Surviving insects from the cry1Ab-transformed IR58 were transferred to IR62 to complete development. There was no geographic variation in the percentage of insects completing development to adult emergence and the time required by the transferred female insects to complete development. However, there was variation among provinces in male developmental time. The absence of geographic variation on nontransgenic IR58 and the very limited variation on IR62 indicated that there was little variation in general vigor among the S. incertulas populations and thus that the variation in performance oil cry1Ab-transformed IR58 was probably attributable to differences in susceptibility to Cry1Ab.
11142320	The mechanical impact of rice polishingon the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.), and the subsequent postpolishing effects associated with rice quality were studied. "Brown" rice (not polished), "White (infest then polish)" rice, and "White (polish then infest)" rice were used with different polishing process intensities and different initial weevil densities. Weevil progeny were more numerous in Brown than in White (infest then polish) or White (polish then infest) rice. Polishing corresponding to a weight loss of 11% in rice generated an immediate mortality of approximately 40%; the subsequent mortality caused by rice quality was also 40% (total >80%). A polishing process corresponding to 14 and 16% of rice weight loss generated a drastic mortality in the weevil population (>95%). The progeny per adult weevil was similar with high and low initial weevil densities. The development of weevil progeny was also delayed by about 1 wk in White (infest then polish) rice compared with Brown rice. Furthermore, weevil adults of the progeny were significantly heavier in Brown than in White (infest then polish) or White (polish then infest) rice.
11142613	This rapid assessment survey was undertaken to find out the current practices of infant feeding in Bahrain and the impact of educational level of the mothers on these practices. A total sample of 200 Bahraini mothers of children less than 2 years were interviewed in the health centers. The age of mothers ranged from 18 to 47 years. About one third of mothers (39.8%) initiated breastfeeding at the first hour of delivery, and there was no significant association between education of mothers and initiating of breastfeeding. Most infants were placed in the same bed as their mothers (71%), however the proportion was lower among infants with high education (61.8%) compared to low (73.7%) and middle (72.5%) education mothers. The introduction of foods during the first 3 days of the infant's life as well as the practising of breastfeeding on schedule increased with the increased of educational level of mothers. Highly educated mothers tended to introduce rice, wheat, infant formula and fruit at an earlier age of the infant's life than other education groups. The study demonstrates an improvement in infant feeding practices during the last decade. However, the practice of sound infant feeding was less among highly educated mothers when compared to low and middle education mothers. This is mainly due to socio-economic factors rather than lack of awareness.
11144442	The effect of smaller volume, thickened formulas on gastroesophageal reflux is not clear. The frequency of gastroesophageal reflux and duration of acid pH in the esophagus were determined in six thriving infants using extended esophageal pH monitoring. There was a significant reduction in frequency of emesis and gastroesophageal reflux but not the duration of acid pH in the esophagus with the use of infant formula thickened with rice cereal to provide a nutritionally appropriate intake in a smaller volume. Thickening of formula with rice cereal in a nutritionally balanced form and smaller volume may be an appropriate strategy for reducing frequency of emesis and gastroesophageal reflux in thriving infants.
11147348	Fertile and sterile pools were set up by bulked segregant analysis (BSA) based on the selection for the highly fertile and highly sterile plants of Shanyou 63 F2 population. The AFLP analysis of the two pools indicated that 64 primer combinations amplified 3,477 stable and clear bands. Exception of the combination E-AGC/M-CAA, all primer combinations had not detected polymorphism between the two pools. It was proved by investigation of two parents, individuals of F2 segregant population, backbone sterile lines and restorer lines that the polymorphic fragment AP1 generated from the primer E-AGC/M-CAA was associated with the restoring gene. AP1 was a single copy detected by Southern blot hybridization. The distance between AP1 and the restoring gene was 4.76 cM.
11147349	Mh-1 is a tall plant mutant induced by irradiation from semi-dwarfed variety Guichao 2. The genetic analyses were carried out through the F1, F2, F3 progenies and test-crossed F1 on Mh-1 crossed with materials with sd-1 gene, non-allelic gene to sd-1 and common tall plant. The results indicate that the induced tall plant trait of Mh-1 is controlled by a recessive inhibiting gene, named tentatively i-sd-1(t), that can regulate the expression of sd-1 gene but not of non-allelic gene to sd-1. The valuation of i-sd-1(t) in hybrid rice breeding was discussed.
11147353	Proto-oncogene ras is an important gene for suppress the animal cells apoptosis. To analyze the presence of homologous sequences of ras in maize and rice, Southern blot hybridization was performed and positive signals was detected in these two species' genomes. The physical location of the ras homologous sequences was also carried out in maize chromosome by FISH. ras was hybridized onto the long arm of the chromosomes 2 and 7. The detection rates of FISH were 10.85% and 14.15%, and percentage distances from centromere to detection sites were 54.92 +/- 1.90 and 94.62 +/- 2.77 respectively. These results provided important clues of the further research of plant apoptosis.
11148274	The expression of the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii cytochrome c gene was studied at the steady-state mRNA level. The inclusion of acetate under illumination produced a marked increase in cytochrome c transcripts. This effect was not affected by two inhibitors of mitochondrial energy metabolism. Three different obligate photoautotrophic mutants with defective mitochondria showed normal levels of induction, suggesting that utilization of acetate for respiration is not required for this process. Light, in the presence or absence of acetate, also promoted an increase in cytochrome c transcript levels. This effect could be abolished by treatment of the cells with an inhibitor of the photosynthetic electron transport chain, suggesting that light acts through photosynthesis to promote the induction. In addition, a genomic clone encompassing the Chlamydomonas cytochrome c gene has been isolated and analyzed. The gene contains three introns, two of which are located at positions similar to those in the rice and Arabidopsis cytochrome c genes, indicating the existence of an evolutionary link. It is concluded that the cytochrome c gene from C. reinhardtii is subject to metabolic regulation through a mechanism that responds to the intracellular level of either acetate or a compound derived from its metabolization through a pathway different from mitochondrial respiration.
11148277	Metabolism of brassinolide in Marchantia polymorpha was investigated by use of in vivo suspension cultured cells. GC-MS analysis of metabolites derived from non-labelled brassinolide and [26, 28-2H6] brassinolide revealed that brassinolide was converted to 26-norbrassinolide while [26, 28-2H6]brassinolide to [26-2H3]28-norbrassinolide. It seems that Marchantia cells recognized [26, 28-2H6]brassinolide as a xenobiotic rather than brassinolide and deteriums attached to C-28 significantly affect demethylation reaction due to isotopic effect. Thus, demethylation of brassinolide in planta seems to proceed by loss of C-26 rather than C-28. The present finding is the first evidence for demethylation metabolism of brassinosteroids. The biological activity of 26-norbrassinolide was 10-fold reduced as shown by the rice lamina inclination test. However, because of its high biological activity, it remains difficult to conclude whether or not C-26 demethylation serves as an important deactivation process of brassinolide.
11148278
11148291	A major quantitative trait locus (QTL) controlling response to photoperiod, Hd1, was identified by means of a map-based cloning strategy. High-resolution mapping using 1505 segregants enabled us to define a genomic region of approximately 12 kb as a candidate for Hd1. Further analysis revealed that the Hd1 QTL corresponds to a gene that is a homolog of CONSTANS in Arabidopsis. Sequencing analysis revealed a 43-bp deletion in the first exon of the photoperiod sensitivity 1 (se1) mutant HS66 and a 433-bp insertion in the intron in mutant HS110. Se1 is allelic to the Hd1 QTL, as determined by analysis of two se1 mutants, HS66 and HS110. Genetic complementation analysis proved the function of the candidate gene. The amount of Hd1 mRNA was not greatly affected by a change in length of the photoperiod. We suggest that Hd1 functions in the promotion of heading under short-day conditions and in inhibition under long-day conditions.
11149940	Production of reactive oxygen intermediates (ROI) and a form of programmed cell death called hypersensitive response (HR) are often associated with disease resistance of plants. We have previously shown that the Rac homolog of rice, OsRac1, is a regulator of ROI production and cell death in rice. Here we show that the constitutively active OsRac1 (i) causes HR-like responses and greatly reduces disease lesions against a virulent race of the rice blast fungus; (ii) causes resistance against a virulent race of bacterial blight; and (iii) causes enhanced production of a phytoalexin and alters expression of defense-related genes. The dominant-negative OsRac1 suppresses elicitor-induced ROI production in transgenic cell cultures, and in plants suppresses the HR induced by the avirulent race of the fungus. Taken together, our findings strongly suggest that OsRac1 has a general role in disease resistance of rice.
1115027
11152069	By screening a genomic library of Burkholderia gladioli (formerly Pseudomonas marginata) for clones exhibiting esterolytic activity, the gene for a novel-type esterase (EstC) showing significant homology to plant enzymes could be isolated. High homology was found to two hydroxynitrile lyases originating from Hevea brasiliensis (tropical rubber tree) and Manihot esculenta (cassava), and to two proteins from Oryza sativa (rice) that are specifically induced upon infection by Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. The sequenced ORF encodes for a protein of 298 amino acids. The enzyme was efficiently overexpressed in Escherichia coli, purified and characterized with respect to enzymatic capabilities. The enzyme was able to hydrolyze a variety of esterase substrates of low to medium carbonic acid chain length, but no triglycerides were hydrolyzed. Despite the high sequence homology, no hydroxynitrile lyase activity could be recognized.
11152083	Dietary and behavioral needs of special populations are rarely considered in traditional weight loss programs. This study assessed the impact of culturally-sensitive modifications to the Duke University Rice Diet weight loss program for African-American dieters. The study was a randomized modified cross-over study in which volunteers received either early or delayed weight loss intervention. Final outcomes were measured at 8 weeks. At the onset of the study, there were 56 African American participants, however, only 44 (79%) completed the study. The eight-week intervention was a modified 1000-calorie/day version of the Rice Diet. Modifications to the program included decreased cost, culturally-sensitive recipes, addressing attitudes about exercise, and including family members in weight loss efforts. Average weight loss for subjects completing the program was 14.8 pounds (SD = 6.8 pounds). BMI decreased from 37.8 kg/m2 to 35.3 kg/m2 (p < 0.01). Total cholesterol levels decreased from 199.2 mg/dL to 185.4 mg/dL (p < 0.01); systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased by 4.3 mmHg (p < 0.01) and 2.4 mmHg (p < 0.05), respectively. The control group showed no significant change in any outcome measures. We found that diet programs can be successfully tailored to incorporate the needs of African-Americans. Most importantly, these dietary program changes can lead to significant improvement in clinical parameters. Additional studies are necessary to determine the permanence of these short-term changes.
11153044	Sixteen samples of settled dusts deposited during handling of various granular plant materials (green gram, red gram, amaranth, rice, pearl millet, sorghum, wheat, maize) in small food storing and processing facilities (godowns) were collected in the region of Aurangabad (Southern India). The samples were examined by the dilution plating method for the concentration and species composition of Gram-positive mesophilic bacteria, Gram-negative mesophilic bacteria, thermophilic actinomycetes and fungi. They were also examined by Limulus test for the concentration of bacterial endotoxin. The total concentration of microorganisms (bacteria + fungi) in examined samples varied within a wide range of 1.4 x 10(5) - 8.45 x 10(8) cfu/g (median 8.36 x 10(6) cfu/g). On average, the most common were Gram-positive bacteria (87.84% of all isolates) followed by Gram-negative bacteria (11.12%). Less common were fungi (1.24%) and thermophilic actinomycetes (0.01%). Among isolated bacteria and fungi, there were many species known as causative agents of allergic alveolitis, asthma and organic dust toxic syndrome. The concentration of bacterial endotoxin in the examined samples ranged between 12.5 - 62500 microg/g (median 781.25 microg/g), being particularly large in the samples of dust from maize (6250 microg/g and 62500 microg/g) and pearl millet (6250 microg/g and 12500 microg/g). The results of the present work indicate that the agricultural dusts from India represent a potential hazard for the workers because of high concentrations of allergenic microorganisms and bacterial endotoxin. The particular risk is associated with handing of maize and pearl millet. Further studies on this subject with the use of aerobiological methods are highly desirable
11154348	Rice (Oryza sativa) is sensitive to salinity, which affects one-fifth of irrigated land worldwide. Reducing sodium and chloride uptake into rice while maintaining potassium uptake are characteristics that would aid growth under saline conditions. We describe genetic determinants of the net quantity of ions transported to the shoot, clearly distinguishing between quantitative trait loci (QTL) for the quantity of ions in a shoot and for those that affect the concentration of an ion in the shoot. The latter coincide with QTL for vegetative growth (vigor) and their interpretation is therefore ambiguous. We distinguished those QTL that are independent of vigor and thus directly indicate quantitative variation in the underlying mechanisms of ion uptake. These QTL independently govern sodium uptake, potassium uptake, and sodium:potassium selectivity. The QTL for sodium and potassium uptake are on different linkage groups (chromosomes). This is consistent with the independent inheritance of sodium and potassium uptake in the mapping population and with the mechanistically different uptake pathways for sodium and potassium in rice under saline conditions (apoplastic leakage and membrane transport, respectively). We report the chromosomal location of ion transport and selectivity traits that are compatible with agronomic needs and we indicate markers to assist selection in a breeding program. Based upon knowledge of the underlying mechanisms of ion uptake in rice, we argue that QTL for sodium transport are likely to act through the control of root development, whereas QTL for potassium uptake are likely to act through the structure or regulation of membrane-sited transport components.
11157225	Using a newly developed 16S rRNA gene (rDNA)-targeted PCR assay with proposed group specificity for planctomycetes, we examined anoxic bulk soil of flooded rice microcosms for the presence of novel planctomycete-like diversity. For comparison, oxic rice roots were included as an additional sample in this investigation. The bacterial diversity detectable by this PCR assay was assessed by using a combined approach that included terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis and comparative sequence analysis of cloned 16S rDNA. T-RFLP fingerprint patterns generated from rice roots contained 12 distinct terminal restriction fragments (T-RFs). In contrast, the T-RFLP fingerprint patterns obtained from the anoxic bulk soil contained 33 distinct T-RFs, a clearly higher level of complexity. A survey of 176 bulk soil 16S rDNA clone sequences permitted correlation of 20 T-RFs with phylogenetic information. The other 13 T-RFs remained unidentified. The predominant T-RFs obtained from rice roots could be assigned to members of the genus Pirellula within the Planctomycetales, while most of the T-RFs obtained from the bulk soil corresponded to novel lines of bacterial descent. Using a level of 16S rDNA sequence dissimilarity to cultured microorganisms of approximately 20% as a threshold value, we detected 11 distinct bacterial lineages for which pure-culture representatives are not known. Four of these lineages could be assigned to the order Planctomycetales, while one lineage was affiliated with the division Verrucomicrobia and one lineage was affiliated with the spirochetes. The other five lineages either could not be assigned to any of the main lines of bacterial descent or clearly expanded the known diversity of division level lineages WS3 and OP3. Our results indicate the presence of bacterial diversity at a subdivision and/or division level that has not been detected previously by the so-called universal 16S rDNA PCR assays.
11157275	Bacterial strains were isolated from samples of Japanese rice vinegar (komesu) and unpolished rice vinegar (kurosu) fermented by the traditional static method. Fermentations have never been inoculated with a pure culture since they were started in 1907. A total of 178 isolates were divided into groups A and B on the basis of enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus-PCR and random amplified polymorphic DNA fingerprinting analyses. The 16S ribosomal DNA sequences of strains belonging to each group showed similarities of more than 99% with Acetobacter pasteurianus. Group A strains overwhelmingly dominated all stages of fermentation of both types of vinegar. Our results indicate that appropriate strains of acetic acid bacteria have spontaneously established almost pure cultures during nearly a century of komesu and kurosu fermentation.
11158536	We had previously isolated and characterized syringolin A, one of the molecular determinants secreted by Pseudomonas syringae pv syringae that is perceived by nonhost plant species such as rice. Here, we show that syringolin A is recognized by wheat and that it induces the accumulation of gene transcripts and increases protection against powdery mildew when applied before inoculation. Moreover, syringolin A essentially eradicates powdery mildew from infected wheat if applied after inoculation. This curative effect is accompanied by the induction of cell death and the reactivation of pathogenesis-related genes whose transcript levels initially accumulate after powdery mildew inoculation but then decline during the later course of infection. Because syringolin A has no fungicidal activity against a variety of fungi and its action on wheat cannot be mimicked by the fungicide cyprodinil, syringolin A is hypothesized to counteract the suppression of host defense reactions imposed by the pathogen on the colonized cells.
11159311	This paper examines a new technique for the visualization of and the interaction with trees, objects frequently used to convey hierarchical relationships in biological data. Motivated by the quality of 2D tree interaction, we adapt the planar tree-of-life metaphor to a virtual, semi-immersive 3D environment. A 3D environment extends the utility of this metaphor by allowing the user to view an entire data set in a single screen. Interrogation of the tree is implemented using 3D input devices. This real-time interrogation of the tree itself provides a quick means by which to qualitatively analyse the hierarchical data. In this paper, we describe the techniques underlying the implementation of such an environment. We conclude by considering the utility of tree metaphors as a basis for the representation of highly dimensional data sets. Arbor3D (source code, a binary executable for SGI IRIX 6.4, Perl parsers, and sample Newick data files) are available via the Internet (http://xian.tamu.edu/Arbor3D/). Arbor3D can be displayed in "CAVE simulator" mode on an SGI workstation screen, or as an interactive virtual environment on a projection workbench. druths@rice.edu; echen@cs.rice.edu; leland@xian.tamu.edu
11160537	A tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF(25)) and novel tocotrienols (d-P(21)-T3 and d-P(25)-T3) of rice bran significantly lowered serum and low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in chickens. The present study evaluated the effects of novel tocotrienols on lipid metabolism in swine expressing hereditary hypercholesterolemia. Fifteen 4-mo-old genetically hypercholesterolemic swine were divided into five groups (n = 3). Four groups were fed a corn-soybean control diet, supplemented with 50 microg of either TRF(25), gamma-tocotrienol, d-P(21)-T3 or d-P(25)-T3 per g for 6 wk. Group 5 was fed the control diet for 6 wk and served as a control. After 6 wk, serum total cholesterol was reduced 32-38%, low density lipoprotein cholesterol was reduced 35-43%, apolipoprotein B was reduced 20-28%, platelet factor 4 was reduced 12-24%, thromboxane B(2) was reduced 11-18%, glucose was reduced 22-25% (P<0.01), triglycerides were reduced 15-19% and glucagon was reduced 11-17% (P<0.05) in the treatment groups relative to the control. Insulin was 100% greater (P<0.01) in the treatment groups than in the control group. Preliminary data (n = 1) indicated that hepatic activity of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase was lower in the treatment groups, and cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase activity was unaffected. Cholesterol and fatty acid levels in various tissues were lower in the treatment groups than in control. After being fed the tocotrienol-supplemented diets, two swine in each group were transferred to the control diet for 10 wk. The lower concentrations of serum lipids in these four treatment groups persisted for 10 wk. This persistent effect may have resulted from the high tocotrienol levels in blood of the treatment groups, suggesting that the conversion of tocotrienols to tocopherols may not be as rapid as was reported in chickens and humans.
11160945	Here we present the successful application of the microarray technology platform to the analysis of DNA polymorphisms. Using the rice genome as a model, we demonstrate the potential of a high-throughput genome analysis method called Diversity Array Technology, DArT'. In the format presented here the technology is assaying for the presence (or amount) of a specific DNA fragment in a representation derived from the total genomic DNA of an organism or a population of organisms. Two different approaches are presented: the first involves contrasting two representations on a single array while the second involves contrasting a representation with a reference DNA fragment common to all elements of the array. The Diversity Panels created using this method allow genetic fingerprinting of any organism or group of organisms belonging to the gene pool from which the panel was developed. Diversity Arrays enable rapid and economical application of a highly parallel, solid-state genotyping technology to any genome or complex genomic mixtures.
11161045	In plants, sugars are required to sustain growth and regulate gene expression. A large set of genes are either up- or down-regulated by sugars; however, whether there is a common mechanism and signal transduction pathway for differential and coordinated sugar regulation remain unclear. In the present study, the rice (Oryza sativa cv Tainan 5) cell culture was used as a model system to address this question. Sucrose and glucose both played dual functions in gene regulation as exemplified by the up-regulation of growth-related genes and down-regulation of stress-related genes. Sugar coordinately but differentially activated or repressed gene expression, and nuclear run-on transcription and mRNA half-life analyses revealed regulation of both the transcription rate and mRNA stability. Although coordinately regulated by sugars, these growth- and stress-related genes were up-regulated or down-regulated through hexokinase-dependent and/or hexokinase-independent pathways. We also found that the sugar signal transduction pathway may overlap the glycolytic pathway for gene repression. alpha-Amylase and the stress-related genes identified in this study were coordinately expressed under sugar starvation, suggesting a convergence of the nutritional and environmental stress signal transduction pathways. Together, our studies provide a new insight into the complex signal transduction network and mechanisms of sugar regulation of growth and stress-related genes in plants.
11161052	Survival of rice (Oryza sativa) upon an extreme rise of the water level depends on rapid stem elongation, which is mediated by ethylene. A genomic clone (OS-ACS5) encoding 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) synthase, which catalyzes a regulatory step in ethylene biosynthesis, has been isolated from cv IR36, a lowland rice variety. Expression was induced upon short- and long-term submergence in cv IR36 and in cv Plai Ngam, a Thai deepwater rice variety. Under hypoxic conditions, abscisic acid and gibberellin had a reciprocal opposite effect on the activity of OS-ACS5. Gibberellin up-regulated and abscisic acid down-regulated OS-ACS5 mRNA accumulation. Growth experiments indicated that lowland rice responded to submergence with a burst of growth early on, but lacked the ability to sustain elongation growth. Sustained growth, characteristic for deepwater rice, was correlated with a prolonged induction of OS-ACS5. In addition, a more pronounced capacity to convert ACC to ethylene, a limited ACC conjugation, and a high level of endogenous gibberellin(20) were characteristic for the deepwater variety. An elevated level of OS-ACS5 messenger was found in cv IR36 plants treated with exogenous ACC. This observation was concomitant with an increase in the capacity of converting ACC to ethylene and in elongation growth, and resulted in prolonged survival. In conclusion, OS-ACS5 is involved in the rapid elongation growth of deepwater rice by contributing to the initial and long-term increase in ethylene levels. Our data also suggest that ACC limits survival of submerged lowland rice seedlings.
11161058	Protein L-isoaspartyl methyltransferase is a widely distributed repair enzyme that initiates the conversion of abnormal L-isoaspartyl residues to their normal L-aspartyl forms. Here we show that this activity is expressed in developing corn (Zea mays) and carrot (Daucus carota var. Danvers Half Long) plants in patterns distinct from those previously seen in winter wheat (Triticum aestivum cv Augusta) and thale cress (Arabidopsis thaliana), whereas the pattern of expression observed in rice (Oryza sativa) is similar to that of winter wheat. Although high levels of activity are found in the seeds of all of these plants, relatively high levels of activity in vegetative tissues are only found in corn and carrot. The activity in leaves was found to decrease with aging, an unexpected finding given the postulated role of this enzyme in repairing age-damaged proteins. In contrast with the situation in wheat and Arabidopsis, we found that osmotic or salt stress could increase the methyltransferase activity in newly germinated seeds (but not in seeds or seedlings), whereas abscisic acid had no effect. We found that the corn, rice, and carrot enzymes have comparable affinity for methyl-accepting substrates and similar optimal temperatures for activity of 45 degrees C to 55 degrees C as the wheat and Arabidopsis enzymes. These experiments suggest that this enzyme may have specific roles in different plant tissues despite a common catalytic function.
11161698	The effect of lindane was studied in Cyanobacteria (Anabaena) by estimating its growth pattern, biomass yield, chlorophyll content, and total starch and protein content. The results reveal that exposure of Anabaena with 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 ppm levels of lindane will have drastic effects on biomass production and photosynthetic rate. Since Cyanobacteria are a primary source of aquatic food web and important biofertilizer for rice cultivation, their protection from residual effects of lindane is essential for enriched soil fertility.
11162651	X-ray crystallographic studies revealed that various amino acid dehydrogenases fold into two domains in each subunit, a substrate-binding domain and an NAD(P)(+)-binding domain (Baker, P. J., Turnbull, A. P., Sedelnikova, S. E., Stillman, T. J., and Rice, D. W. (1995) Structure 3, 693-705). To elucidate the function and folding process of these two domains, we have genetically constructed a fragmentary form of thermostable leucine dehydrogenase of Bacillus stearothermophilus consisting of an N-terminal polypeptide fragment corresponding to the substrate-binding domain including an N-terminus, and a C-terminal fragment corresponding to the NAD(+)-binding domain. The two peptide fragments were expressed in separate host cells and purified. When both fragments were mixed, the leucine dehydrogenase activity with a specific activity of 1.4% of that of the wild-type enzyme appeared. This suggests that both peptide fragments mutually recognize each other, associate and fold correctly to be catalytically active, although the activity is low. However, the fragmentary form of enzyme produced catalyzed the oxidative deamination of l-leucine, l-isoleucine, and l-valine with broad substrate specificity compared to that of the wild-type enzyme. The fragmentary enzyme retained more than 75% of the initial activity after heating at 50 degrees C for 60 min. The fragmentary enzyme was more stable on heating than separate peptide fragments. These results suggest that the two domains of leucine dehydrogenase probably fold independently, and the two peptide fragments interact and associate with each other to form a functional active site.
11164587	Aldose reductase (AR) protein and enzyme (alditol: NAD (P)(+) 1-oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.21) activity have been identified in mature seeds of indica rice cultivars. The protein begins to accumulate 15 days after pollination, reaches a peak at seed maturity and disappears upon imbibition. Furthermore, AR is induced in vegetative tissues in response to exogenous ABA application and other stress conditions, such as PEG mediated water stress and salinity. Increase in AR protein levels upon stress are in close agreement with a similar increase in enzyme activity. Varietal differences in AR levels have been demonstrated. Interestingly, all tested tolerant cultivars (as denoted by breeders) accumulate AR in vegetative tisssue in response to ABA application, while the sensitive line, Hamsa, does not do this under similar stress conditions, suggesting that AR may be associated with stress tolerance. Furthermore, AR protein has been identified in mature seeds of some selected cereals indicating the conserved nature of AR across grasses.
11164600	Accumulation of proline in response to excess Cu was studied in detached leaves of rice (Oryza sativa). CuSO(4) was effective in inducing proline accumulation in detached rice leaves under both light and dark conditions. CuSO(4) and CuCl(2) were equally effective in inducing proline accumulation, indicating that proline accumulation is induced by Cu. Sulfate salts of Mg, Mn, and Fe were ineffective in inducing proline accumulation in detached rice leaves. Excess Cu had no effect on relative water content of detached rice leaves, suggesting that Cu-induced proline accumulation is unlikely due to water deficit. Proline accumulation induced by excess Cu was related to proteolysis and an increase in Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase or ornithine-delta-aminotransferase activity and could not be explained by proline utilization or stress-induced modifications in proline dehydrogenase or Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase. The content of glutamic acid decreased by excess Cu. The increase in arginine but not ornithine was found to be associated with the increase in proline content in Cu-stressed detached rice leaves. CuSO(4) treatment resulted in an increase in abscisic acid content in detached rice leaves. The possibility that proline accumulation induced by excess Cu is mediated through abscisic acid is discussed.
11164604	The changes in the activity of peroxidase (POD) extracted from the cell wall and the level of H(2)O(2) of rice seedling roots treated with abscisic acid (ABA) and their correlation with root growth were investigated. Increasing concentrations of ABA from 3 to 18 M progressively reduce root growth and increase POD activities (using guaiacol or ferulic acid as a substrate) extracted from the cell wall of rice roots. The reduction of root growth by ABA is also correlated with an increase in H(2)O(2) level. Both diamine oxidase (DAO) and NADH peroxidase (NADH-POD) are known to be responsible for the generation of H(2)O(2). ABA treatment increased NADH-POD and DAO activities in roots of rice seedlings, suggesting that NADH-POD and DAO contribute to the generation of H(2)O(2) in the cell wall of ABA-treated roots. An increase in the level of H(2)O(2) and the activity of POD extracted from the cell wall of rice roots preceded root growth reduction caused by ABA. An increase in DAO and NADH-POD activities coincided with an increase in H(2)O(2) in roots caused by ABA. Since DAO catalyzes the oxidation of putrescine, the results that ABA increases the activity of DAO in roots is consistent with those that ABA decreases the level of putrescine. In conclusion, cell wall stiffening catalyzed by POD is possibly involved in the regulation of root growth reduction caused by ABA.
11166426	Genetic transformation has been attempted for management of rice sheath blight disease, caused by Rhizoctonia solani. We introduced a PR-3 rice chitinase gene (RC7), isolated from R. solani-infected rice plants, into indica rice cultivars IR72, IR64, IR68899B, MH63, and Chinsurah Boro II by the biolistic and PEG-mediated transformation system. Inheritance was studied up to the T(2) generation by Southern blot analysis. Western blot analysis of transgenic plants with polyclonal antibody revealed the presence of chitinase protein with a molecular weight of 35 kDa that reacts with chitinase antibody. The transformants synthesized different levels of chitinase proteins constitutively and progeny from the plants containing the chitinase gene showed different levels of enhanced resistance when challenged with the sheath blight pathogen R. solani.
11166431	Tubular projections from plastids (stromules) were observed using a stroma-targeted green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein and a confocal laser scanning microscope. In tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) epidermal cells, stromules were observed at a high frequency. Some of them were long and connected plastids. Three days after particle bombardment, 80.6+/-6.99% of the transformed cells contained some plastids with more than one stromule, and 40.2+/-7.7% contained at least one pair of plastids connected by stromules. In a few cells, numerous and highly developed stromules covering the whole cell were observed. Stromules were also observed in epidermal cells in each of three other plant species that were tested: rice, dayflower (Commelina communis) and Arabidopsis thaliana. These findings demonstrated that stromules are common structure in plant epidermal cells.
11166441	We isolated and characterized a cDNA clone encoding a small GTP-binding protein, which has a high similarity to mammalian ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF), from a cDNA library prepared from immature spikes of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). The cDNA contained an open reading frame that encodes a polypeptide of 181 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 20.7 kDa. The deduced amino acid sequence showed a quite high homology to known ARFs from other organisms. In particular, the wheat ARF was completely identical to the rice ARF1. Genomic Southern hybridization suggested that wheat ARF is encoded by at least two or three copies of ARF genes. Northern analyses showed that the accumulation of the ARF transcripts was nearly constant throughout various environmental stresses in both shoots and roots. However the RNA transcript was preferentially expressed in roots rather than in shoots. A similar expression pattern was also observed at the protein level by Western analysis. The relative abundance of the ARF proteins in root and flower tissues may indicate a high level of vesicular transporting activity in the roots and flowers of wheat plants.
11166532	The objective of this study was to identify possible risk factors associated with open-angle glaucoma (OAG). A case-control study included patients seen at an ophthalmologic clinic. Cases were all consecutive new patients with either unilateral or bilateral OAG detected during the study period. Controls were a random sample of all other patients aged 30 or more, seen in the same department in the same period. Data on demographic, anthropometric and diet habits as well as medical characteristics were collected from 144 patients by medical examination and interview. The study took place at the University Department of Ophthalmology and general private practice of ophthalmology, both in the city of Kinshasa. Forty consecutive patients with OAG and 104 controls were chosen randomly between all consecutive non OAG patients. Odds ratio (OR) are presented for the relation between OAG and age, sex, ethnicity, family history of glaucoma, the length of stay in Kinshasa, body mass index, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cigarette smoking, alcohol, diet habits. Adjusted odds ratio resulting from stepwise logistic regression was employed. Results indicate: family history of glaucoma (OR, 18; 95% CI, 5.80-59.00; P < 0.001), age (OR, 1.05; 95% CI, 1.01-1.09; P = 0.025), body mass index (OR, 1.09; 95% CI, 1.01-1.18; P = 0.05), hyperopia (OR, 2.9; 95% CI, 1.05-7.08; P = 0.03), Mongo ethnic group (OR, 3.5; 95% CI, 1.11-12.20; P = 0.03) and consumption of rice (OR, 4.6; 95% CI, 1.65-12.20; P = 0.004) conferred a significantly greater risk of OAG. This study seems confirm that Mongo ethnic group is associated with an increased risk of OAG.
11169191	Probenazole (PBZ; 3-allyloxy-1,2-benzisothiazole-1,1-dioxide), which is the active ingredient in Oryzemate, has been used widely in Asia to protect rice plants against the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. To study PBZ's mode of action, we analyzed its ability, as well as that of its active metabolite 1, 2-benzisothiazol-3 (2H)-one 1,1-dioxide (BIT) to induce defense gene expression and resistance in Arabidopsis mutants that are defective in various defense signaling pathways. Wild-type Arabidopsis treated with PBZ or BIT exhibited increased expression of several pathogenesis-related genes, increased levels of total salicylic acid (SA), and enhanced resistance to the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC 3000 and the oomycete pathogen Peronospora parasitica Emco5. The role of several defense signaling hormones, such as SA, ethylene and jasmonic acid (JA), in activating resistance following PBZ or BIT treatment was analyzed using NahG transgenic plants and etr1-1 and coi1-1 mutant plants, respectively. In addition, the involvement of NPR1, a key component in the SA signaling pathway leading to defense responses, was assessed. PBZ or BIT treatment did not induce disease resistance or PR-1 expression in NahG transgenic or npr1 mutant plants, but it did activate these phenomena in etr1-1 and coi 1-1 mutant plants. Thus SA and NPR1 appear to be required for PBZ- and BIT-mediated activation of defense responses, while ethylene and JA are not. Furthermore, our data suggest that PBZ and BIT comprise a novel class of defense activators that stimulate the SA/NPR1-mediated defense signaling pathway upstream of SA.
11169192	Nicotianamine (NA) is an intermediate in the biosynthetic pathway of the mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs), which are crucial components of the iron acquisition apparatus of graminaceous plants. In non-graminaceous plants, NA is thought to be an essential chelator for metal cation homeostasis. Thus NA plays a key role in Fe metabolism and homeostasis in all higher plants. Nicotianamine synthase (NAS, EC 2.5.1.43) catalyzes the trimerization of S-adenosylmethionine to form one molecule of NA. Barley, a plant that is resistant to Fe deficiency, secretes large amounts of MAs, whereas rice, a plant that is susceptible to Fe deficiency, secretes only small amounts. In this study we isolated a genomic fragment containing HvNAS1 from barley and three rice cDNA clones, osnas1, osnas2 and osnas3, from Fe-deficient rice roots. We also isolated a genomic fragment containing both OsNAS1 and OsNAS2. In contrast to barley, in which Fe deficiency induces the expression of NAS genes only in roots, Fe deficiency in rice induced NAS gene expression in both roots and chlorotic leaves. The amounts of endogenous NA in both the roots and leaves were higher than in barley. We introduced barley genomic DNA fragments containing HvNAS1 with either 9 or 2 kb of the 5'-flanking region into rice, using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Fe deficiency induced HvNAS1 expression in both roots and leaves of the transgenic rice, as occurs with rice NAS genes. Barley and rice NAS genes are compared in a discussion of alteration of the NAS genes during adaptation to Fe deficiency.
11169193	Oryza sativa L. (domesticated rice) is a monocotyledonous plant, and its 430 Mb genome has been targeted for complete sequencing. We performed a high-resolution computer-based survey for transposable elements on 910 Kb of rice genomic DNA sequences. Both class I and II transposable elements were present, contributing 19.9% of the sequences surveyed. Class II elements greatly outnumbered class I elements (166 versus 22), although class I elements made up a greater percentage (12.2% versus 6.6%) of nucleotides surveyed. Several Mutator-like elements (MULEs) were identified, including rice elements that harbor truncated host cellular genes. MITEs (miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements) account for 71.6% of the mined transposable elements and are clearly the predominant type of transposable element in the sequences examined. Moreover, a putative Stowaway transposase has been identified based on shared sequence similarity with the mined MITEs and previously identified plant mariner-like elements (MLEs). Members of a group of novel rice elements resembling the structurally unusual members of the Basho family in Arabidopsis suggest a wide distribution of these transposons among plants. Our survey provides a preview of transposable element diversity and abundance in rice, and allows for comparison with genomes of other plant species.
1116929	A hollow latex cast of the human larynx and tracheobronchial tree extending to 2 mm diameter airways "inhaled" tantalum powder (mass median aero-dynamic diameter equals 9.2 mum, omicron-g equals 1.41) at 8 liters/min. Tantalum deposited within the cast as predicted by preliminary deposition calculations. These calculations predicted deposition surface densities among greater than 2 mm diam. airways to have a range of similar to 2:1, and also predicted less than 5% alveolar deposition. A deposition surface density of 8 mg/cm-2 provided good bronchographic visualization. Single rice grains located within some airways were distinctly outlined. The small amount of tantalum needed to outline the airways be a simulated voluntary inhalation indicates that tantalum may be suitable for use as a bronchographic contrast medium when administered under strictly controlled exposure conditions.
11170490	Human alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT), the most abundant protease inhibitor found in the blood, was expressed in rice embryonic tissue suspension cell culture. This was accomplished by cloning the codon-optimized AAT gene into a vector containing the rice RAmy3D promoter and its signal sequence. The synthetic gene incorporates codons synonymous with those found in highly expressed rice genes. Approximately 1000 stable transformed calli were produced by particle bombardment mediated transformation and were screened for high AAT expression using a porcine elastase inhibitory activity assay. The band shift assay also confirmed that rice-derived AAT is functional regarding its binding capability to the elastase substrate. Time course studies were conducted to determine the optimum, postinduction expression levels from cell culture. AAT expression equivalent to 20% of the total secreted proteins was achieved, and a purification scheme was developed that yielded active AAT with purity greater than 95%. The potential applications of purified plant-derived AAT for treatments of various AAT-deficient diseases are discussed.
11170584	Solid phase microextraction (SPME) is used to collect and concentrate the compounds in the headspace of rice. This research describes optimization parameters of temperature, moisture, and sampling time. Optimization was based upon the recovered levels of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2-AP), the popcorn aroma in aromatic rice. The method uses a sampling temperature of 80 degrees C and adds 100 microL of water to a 0.75 g sample of rice. The rice was preheated for 25 min, a carboxen/DVB/PDMS SPME fiber was exposed to the headspace for 15 min, and a subsequent GC-MS analysis took 35 min. Samples of rice can be analyzed as the flour, milled kernels, or brown rice. Twenty-one experimental rice varieties were analyzed by the SPME method and compared to a wet technique. Recoveries of several nanograms of 2-AP from 0.75 g samples of aromatic rice were observed, whereas only trace amounts of 2-AP were recovered from nonaromatic rice. Recovery from a single SPME headspace analysis is calculated to be 0.3% of the total 2-AP in the sample.
11171134	Currently available techniques for the separation and characterization of different glycerolipids are complicated and/or time consuming. By modulating the stationary phase in a solid-phase extraction (SPE) manifold, efficient and rapid separation of plant membrane lipids was achieved. The glycerolipids from rice and maize tissues were separated into seven classes (monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, digalactosyldiacylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylcholine, sulphoquinovosyldiacylglycerol, phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylglycerol). The pigments present in the rice and maize leaves and rice stems were successfully removed from the total lipid extracts. Pigment-free plant tissue (rice roots) was also analysed. The fatty acid profile of each lipid class isolated by SPE agreed well with those obtained by other separation techniques. The recovery of glycerolipids was at least 87%.
11171200	Genes encoding an alpha-oxygenase, in Nicotiana tabacum and Arabidopsis thaliana, have been recently isolated. However, the reaction mechanism of the enzyme has not so far been elucidated. In this study, a cDNA encoding the fatty acid alpha-oxygenase gene in rice plants was isolated. The deduced amino acid sequence showed high similarity (63.6%) to that of N. tabacum. The gene was cloned into an expression vector system, pQE-30, and expressed in Escherichia coli as a host cell. Palmitic acid as a substrate was incubated with the lysate of the cells, and the products were analysed by HPLC. A compound formed predominantly by the recombinant enzyme was shown to be n-pentadecanal. By incubating the mixture at 0 degrees C, 2-hydroperoxypalmitic acid was detected as a primary product and little formation of n-pentadecanal was detected. Furthermore, uptake of molecular oxygen was observed with an oxygen electrode. This indicated that the gene in rice plants encodes the alpha-oxygenase.
11172858	Moisture desorption isotherms (EMC/ERH) of medium-grain rough rice (Japonica variety) were determined using a constant environment chamber for various combinations of air temperature (11.8-51.0 degrees C) and relative humidity (37.1-89.7%). The initial moisture contents were in the range of 24.7-41.6% dry basis. A thin-layer technique was used to achieve uniform drying. Each test was continued until the moisture content change in 24h was less than 0.1% dry basis. The final moisture content was considered as the dynamic equilibrium moisture content. Four three-parameter EMC/ERH equations, the modified Henderson, modified Chung-Pfost, modified Oswin and modified Halsey equations, were compared for their ability to fit the experimental EMC/ERH data. The residual sum of squares (RSS) and standard error of estimate (SEE) were adopted as the criteria to evaluate the fitting performance of the models. The modified Chung-Pfost equation was identified as the most appropriate equation for representing the EMC/ERH desorption isotherms of rough rice. Coefficients for equilibrium moisture content as a function of equilibrium relative humidity and temperature are given. The EMC/ERH data obtained in this study agreed well with previously published data. However the average isotherm, combining desorption and adsorption data, of ASAE does not predict the desorption EMC of rough rice accurately.
11172864	A model is developed to describe the decay of seven insecticides on stored paddy rice, maize, sunflowers and peas, and is shown to be more precise than each of six literature models on pesticide decay. It relates residues (R), as a ratio of applied concentration (R(0)), to time after insecticide application (t), modifying the usual first-order kinetics equation lnR=lnR(0)-kt by assuming that the rate constant k has a mixture of values according to a gamma distribution with mean K. The resulting equation is lnR=lnR(0)-Kcln(1+t/c), where c is a constant determined empirically. For large c, this model reduces to the first-order model with K=k. The parameter K is further modelled as linear in temperature for maize and rice. The rate of loss of protectants was found not to be seriously affected by co-application with other insecticides, and this is a useful finding for future studies on rates of loss of grain protectants. The apparent rate of loss was also not seriously affected by the method of analysis, whether by gas chromatography or high-performance liquid chromatography, and this finding supports previous validation of the methods.
11175732	The puroindoline genes (pinA and pinB) are believed to play critical roles in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) grain texture. Mutations in either gene are associated with hard wheat. No direct evidence exists for the ability of puroindolines to modify cereal grain texture. Interestingly, puroindolines appear to be absent in cereal species outside of the tribe Triticeae, in which the dominant form of grain texture is hard. To assess the ability of the puroindolines to modify cereal grain texture, the puroindolines were introduced into rice (Oryzae sativa L.) under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter. Textural analysis of transgenic rice seeds indicated that expression of PINA and/or PINB reduced rice grain hardness. After milling, flour prepared from these softer seeds had reduced starch damage and an increased percentage of fine flour particles. Our data support the hypothesis that puroindolines play important roles in controlling wheat grain texture and may be useful in modifying grain texture of other cereals.
1117883
11179594	Complement C3a is an anti-opioid peptide, having anti-analgesic and anti-amnesic effects after intracerebroventricular administration. However, the peptide is inactive after oral administration. Orally active C3a agonist peptide was designed based on the structure of oryzatensin, a C3a agonist peptide derived from rice albumin. Tyr-Pro-Leu-Pro-Arg, a pentapeptide at the carboxyl terminus of oryzatensin is the minimally essential structure for exerting C3a activity. Due to the affinity for mu-opioid receptor, both oryzatensin and Tyr-Pro-Leu-Pro-Arg showed analgesia after intracerebroventricular administration in mice which was blocked by the opioid antagonist naloxone. Tyr-Pro-Leu-Pro-Arg lost opioid activity by substitution the amino terminus tyrosine with other hydrophobic residues. Among the newly designed peptides, Trp-Pro-Leu-Pro-Arg was found to possess the strongest C3a activity. The peptide antagonized morphine-induced analgesia at 300 mg/kg after oral administration and also improved scopolamine- and ischemia-induced amnesia in a step-through passive avoidance test.
11179662	Floral homeotic B-function genes are involved in specifying the identity of petals and stamens during flower development in higher eudicotyledonous plants. Monocotyledonous plants belonging to the grass family (Poaceae) have very similar B-function genes, except that these genes specify lodicules rather than petals. All B-function genes known so far are members of the MADS-box gene family encoding transcription factors. In some eudicot model systems such as Arabidopsis and Antirrhinum, the B-function is provided by heterodimeric protein complexes encoded by one DEF- and one GLO-like gene. In several different lineages of flowering plant species, however, more than one DEF- or GLO-like gene is found. A known example is the monocot model system rice, which contains two GLO-like genes, termed OSMADS2 and OSMADS4. Duplications of floral homeotic genes may have played a critical role in the diversification of floral homeotic functions and thus the evolution of flowers. In order to date the gene duplication event that gave rise to these two genes, we cloned cDNAs of three different GLO-like genes from maize, a distant relative of rice within the Poaceae family. Phylogeny reconstructions and chromosomal mapping indicate that one of these genes, named ZMM16, is orthologous to OSMADS2, and that the other two, ZMM18 and ZMM29, are probably orthologous to OSMADS4. The gene duplication which gave rise to OSMADS2- and OSMADS4-like genes occurred probably after the split of the lineages that resulted in extant Liliaceae and Poaceae, but before the separation of the lineages that gave rise to extant maize and rice about 50 MYA. Northern and in situ hybridization studies demonstrated that the maize genes are expressed in lodicules, stamens and carpels throughout spikelet development in male and female inflorescences. The GLO-like genes from rice have very similar patterns of mRNA accumulation. In addition, ZMM16 shows also weak expression in vegetative organs. Conservation of the expression in lodicules and stamens is in perfect agreement with a floral homeotic B-function of the GLO-like genes in grasses. The conserved expression in carpels is discussed. Moreover, circumstantial evidence for a functional diversification of GLO-like genes in grasses is provided.
11181133	Melioidosis has not been recognized previously in Laos, but within months of starting a prospective study of community acquired septicemia in Vientiane, 2 patients with melioidosis were identified. One was a previously healthy, 44-year-old female rice farmer who presented with supraclavicular lymphadenitis and the other was a 74-year-old man with diabetes and renal calculi who was receiving corticosteroids and had septicemia and septic arthritis.
11181723	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings, when kept at 42 degrees C for 24 h before being kept at 5 degrees C for 7 d, did not develop chilling injury. Chilling resistance was enhanced in parallel with the period of heat-treatment. The level of APX activity was higher in heated seedlings whereas CAT activity was decreased by heat stress. There was no significant difference in SOD activity between heated and unheated seedlings. The elevated activity of APX was sustained after 7 d of chilling. The cytosolic APX gene expression in response to high and low temperature was analysed with an APXa gene probe. APXa mRNA levels increased within 1 h after seedlings were exposed to 42 degrees C. Elevated APXa mRNA levels could also be detected after 24 h of heating. The APXa mRNA level in preheated seedlings was still higher than unheated seedlings under cold stress. The promoter of the APXa gene was cloned from rice genomic DNA by TAIL-PCR, and characterized by DNA sequencing. The promoter had a minimal heat shock factor-binding motif, 5'-nGAAnnTTCn-3', located in the 81 bp upstream of the TATA box. Heat shock induction of the APXa gene could be a possible cause of reduced chilling injury in rice seedlings.
11181725	Mutations blocking carotenoid biosynthesis, never before described for rice, are valuable for pathway manipulation and study. Similar to defects in ABA biosynthesis, mutations blocking the carotenoid pathway confer vivipary, but in addition also confer an albino seedling phenotype. Pigments extracted from rice mutants exhibiting the double mutant phenotype were analysed by HPLC (high pressure liquid chromatography); these results led to the identification of the first rice mutant accumulating an intermediate of the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway, phytoene, and a second mutant with almost no detectable carotenoids.
11182303	Sixteen female crossbred (localxAnglo-Nubian) goats raised from 20-30kg were fed a basal diet of cassava chips, cotton seed cake, rice bran and rice straw, where 0, 30, 40 or 50% of the diet dry matter was replaced with leaves from Gliricidia maculata. All the diets containing Gliricidia resulted in a higher intake than the diet without Gliricidia, but the diet with 30% Gliricidia gave the best intake and the highest growth rate, 105g per day. Total intake was 2.8% of the body weight (BW). Five male goats of the same breed and size were used to study the effect of supplementing rice straw with different levels of Gliricidia leaves on intake and apparent digestibility of the diets. Increasing the amount of Gliricidia leaves decreased the rice straw intake but increased intake of total dry matter (DM), organic matter (OM), neutral detergent fibre (NDF), acid detergent fibre (ADF) and crude protein (CP). Supplementing with Gliricidia leaves improved the dry matter digestibility (DMD), the OM digestibility and the CP digestibility in the mixed Gliricidia and rice straw diet, compared to pure rice straw, but the values were somewhat lower than could be expected by calculations from the pure rice straw and Gliricidia diets. The DMD of Gliricidia was 64.1%.
11182305	This study was conducted to investigate effects of leaves of mulberry tree (Morus alba) as a protein supplement to isonitrogenously replace rapeseed meal (RSM) on performance of growing lambs offered ammoniated rice straw (ABRS) (Trial 1), and to evaluate the digestive characteristics of the ABRS supplemented with different ratios of RSM and mulberry leaves in terms of in vitro gas production (Trial 2). In Trial 1, 45 Huzhou lambs were divided into five equal groups according to their body weight and gender. Lambs in each group were kept in three pens (male, female and mixed (one male and two females)), and received one of the following dietary treatments: 100g RSM (A), 75g RSM plus 60g mulberry leaves (B), 50g RSM plus 120g mulberry leaves (C), 25g RSM plus 180g mulberry leaves (D), and 240g mulberry leaves (E). All animals were given ABRS ad libitum along with 100g ground corn per head per day. The intake of ABRS was slightly increased with the supplementary level of mulberry leaves, and hence total intake increased with the increasing level of mulberry leaves. The growth rates were higher in diets A and E than those in other treatments (P<0.05), with little difference between diets A and E, and the slowest in C. Animals of all genders showed a similar trend, though male lambs was higher in weight gain than the female. While feed efficiency was higher in diet A, concentrate consumption per kilogram of weight gain was lower when higher level of mulberry leaves was supplemented (diets D and E). Feed cost per kilogram gain was lower in diets E and A compared to other treatments. Degradation of dry matter in the rumen of sheep were higher for mulberry leaves than for RSM, but crude protein was less degraded for mulberry leaves than for RSM. The potential GP was significantly higher in diet A than those in B, C and D (P<0.05), and higher in E than in C (P<0.05) (Trial 2), indicating a negative associate effect of mulberry leaves and RSM on digestion. It is inferred that mulberry leaves may be used as a protein supplement to ammoniated straw diets to fully substitute for RSM, but these two supplements should unlikely be supplemented together to avoid the negative associate effect.
11182555	The effect of dietary hydrogenated fat (Indian vanaspati) high in trans fatty acids (6 en%) on lipid composition, fluidity and function of rat intestinal brush border membrane was studied at 2 and 8 en% of linoleic acid. Three groups of weanling rats were fed rice-pulse based diet containing 10% fat over a ten week period: Group I (groundnut oil), Group II (vanaspati), Group III (vanaspati + safflower oil). The functionality of the brush border membrane was assessed by the activity of membrane bound enzymes and transport of D-glucose and L-leucine. The levels of total cholesterol and phospholipids were similar in all groups. The data on fatty acid composition of membrane phospholipids showed that, at 2 en% of linoleic acid in the diet, trans fatty acids lowered arachidonic acid and increased linoleic acid contents indicating altered polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolism. Alkaline phosphatase activity was increased while the activities of sucrase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and transport of D-glucose and L-leucine were not altered by dietary trans fatty acids. However at higher intake of linoleic acid in the diet, trans fatty acids have no effect on polyunsaturated fatty acid composition and alkaline phosphatase activity of intestinal brush border membrane. These data suggest that feeding dietary fat high in trans fatty acids is associated with alteration in intestinal brush border membrane polyunsaturated fatty acid composition and alkaline phosphatase activity only when the dietary linoleic acid is low.
11183373	Advances in rice genomics will contribute to gene discovery and rice productivity, but many of the products with high potential for alleviating poverty and improving human nutrition may not be those that attract private investment. Although most genetic resources and biological expertise for functional genomics are in the public, many proprietary technologies are owned by the private sector. A public resource platform is needed for the application of genomic technology to accelerate gene discovery. We present a model and general principles in collaboration that can serve the poor and encourage innovation by both the public and private sectors.
11186235
11187521	An adaptive lossless compression method using predictive coding with the Rice codes is proposed for low resolution three-dimensional biomedical images. The method is evaluated with the brain positron emission tomography (PET) images. The results are considerably better than with static arithmetic coding.
11189744	An investigation was undertaken to obtain data on the occurrence of aflatoxins and the aflatoxin producing potential of Aspergillus flavus strains isolated from dry fruit slices of quinces produced in jammu and Kashmir, India. A total of 147 A. flavus isolates recovered from dr fruit slices were grown in liquid rice flour medium and screened for the production of various aflatoxins by thin layer chromatography. The results showed that 23.14% of the tested isolates were aflatoxigenic, producing aflatoxins B1 and B2 in varying amounts. Aflatoxins G1 and G2 were not detected. All 25 of the investigated market samples were also found to be aflatoxin B1 positive and the level of contamination ranged from 96 to 8164 micrograms/kg of the dry fruit which is quite high in comparison to the permissible level of 30 ppb. As per these results biochemical composition of dry fruit slices of quinces, along with climatic conditions seem to be very favourable for aflatoxin production by the toxigenic A. flavus strains. Therefore, monitoring of aflatoxins in dry fruit slices of quinces is recommended for this region.
11190340	One of the main targets of medical care provided in our ward, which specializes in the cooperative practice of hospital- and home-doctors, is to maintain the quality of patients' lives after they are discharged from our hospital through home medical care by home-doctors. Intravenous hyperalimentation and tube-feeding at home are suitable solutions for some patients with dysphagia after cerebral infarction. However, the difficulties faced in their management are the burden on the families, which tends to be an obstacle for at-home-practice. We describe herein a case of severe dysphagia treated successfully through our rehabilitation program and discharged without nutritional supports. An 82-year-old man was admitted to our hospital suffering from pyrexia and dysbasia. The man, who lives with his wife and his son's family, was diagnosed with aspiration pneumonia and multiple cerebral infarctions. The test for swallowing reflex revealed an impaired first phase reflex and intravenous hyperalimentation was performed for his nutritional support. He was still suffering from dysphagia but had the desire to eat orally after his dysbasia and aspiration pneumonia were cured. A rehabilitation program was scheduled with the aims of 1) recovery of ingestion and 2) sufficient expectoration, with an ongoing teaching program for the management of intravenous hyperalimentation. After one month of rehabilitation (ice-massaging, muscle rehabilitation of the tongue and neck and expectoration training in a prone position and after gorging), his ability to swallow was gradually recovered. With the frequent confirmation of absence of aspiration, special forms of diets were served and upgraded from jelly, paste-like-food to soft-cooked steamed rice. The patient is now at home without any nutritional support. Nutritional management without intravenous hyperalimentation or tube-feeding is important or even essential for some families providing home-care for patients. The problem of aging requires us to reduce the burden that families (who may be also getting older) should carry. We try to support patients and families for better home-care through cooperation with society and home-doctors.
11191767	B.t. gene alone or and SBTi gene together were introduced into two elite indica rice varieties grown in South China by bombardment. And 21 independent transgenic lines containing B.t. gene and 4 independent transgenic lines containing B.t. gene and SBTi gene were obtained. Molecular and genetics analysis for R1 plants showed integration of multiple transgenes occurred at one genetic locus. Northern blot result proved B.t. gene expressed in R2 transgenic plants stably. Bioassays using R2 transgenic plants with leaf-folder (Cnaphalocrosis medinalis), indicated that transgenic rice plants are more resistant to the pest than untransformed control plants. And those transgenic plants containing B.t. and SBTi genes showed more resistance compared with those plants containing B.t. gene.
11192430	Analysis of developmental genetic effects for brown rice thickness (BRT) trait in indica rice (Oryza sativa L.) at four different filling stages was conducted and a developmental genetic model and corresponding statistical approaches for quantitative traits of triploid endosperm in cereal crops was used. The results indicated that the diploid maternal plant, triploid endosperm and cytoplasmic genetic effects were important for BRT trait at all filling stages of rice and those effects were the major effect at initial medium, filling period and mature period respectively. The additive and dominance effects were the major effect alternatively at four filling stages of rice. Significant endosperm and maternal dominance effects for BRT suggest that the utilization of heterosis for BRT is viable. The results of conditional genetic variance components shown that the expression of new quantitative genes in endosperm, cytoplasm and maternal plant for BRT was found at most filling stages of rice. The gene expression was most active at the early filling stages, especially at the second stage (8-14 days after flowering). Near to mature period (22-28 days after flowering), however, the expression of genes decreased sharply and even closed. The phenomena that the genes expressed spasmodically, i.e. the net genetic effects equaled to zero in some filling stages were detected for some genetic effects. Dominance and cytoplasmic correlation coefficients were significant at 0.05 or 0.01 probability level in some filling stages meanwhile there were the most strong relationship between mature period and other periods for BRT.
11193078	Based on the separation of 1-palmitoyl-2-(13-hydroperoxy-cis-9,trans-11-octadecadienoyl)-L-3- phosphatidylcholine (PC-OOH) and 1-palmitoyl-2-(13-hydroxy-cis-9,trans-11-octadecadienoyl)-L-3- phosphatidylcholine (PC-OH) and the quantitative determination of PC-OH, the enzymatic activity of phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (PHGPx) can be measured by capillary electrophoresis. The separation was carried out in a fused-silica capillary (30 cm x 100 microns id) at 15 kV positive voltage. Sodium borate (100 mM; pH = 8.4) was used as the running buffer, and the photodiode array detector wavelength was 232 nm. The determination can be completed in 5 min. The detection limit was 5 pmol; and the relative standard deviation (RSD) of the peak area was less than 1% with an average recovery of 98.6%. Compared with traditional methods such as HPLC and spectrophotometry, it is faster and more convenient. Using capillary electrophoresis, the enzymatic activities of PHGPx expressed by the rice PHGPx gene in E. coli. M15 was determined as 1.25 x 10(-5) mumol min-1, and the specific activity of partially purified trans-gene PHGPx was 3.1 x 10(-2) mumol min-1 per mg. The stability of the trans-gene PHGPx was also studied.
11193424	A cDNA for a putative Sec31p in rice has been cloned and sequenced. In yeast, Sec31p is a component of a protein-coated vesicle, COPII, which functions in the transport of cargo proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the cis-Golgi network. Structural similarities between yeast Sec31p and the rice putative homolog are discussed.
11194147	Endemic goitre has been reported in the climatic wet zone of south-west Sri Lanka for the past 50 years, but rarely occurs in the northern dry zone. Despite government-sponsored iodised salt programmes, endemic goitre is still prevalent. In recent years, it has been suggested that Se deficiency may be an important factor in the onset of goitre and other iodine deficiency disorders (IDD). Prior to the present study, environmental concentrations of Se in Sri Lanka and the possible relationships between Se deficiency and endemic goitre had not been investigated. During the present study, chemical differences in the environment (measured in soil, rice and drinking water) and the Se-status of the human population (demonstrated by hair samples from women) were determined for 15 villages. The villages were characterised by low (< 10%), moderate (10-25%) and high (> 25%) goitre incidence (NIDD, MIDD and HIDD, respectively). Results show that concentrations of soil total Se and iodine are highest in the HIDD villages, however, the soil clay and organic matter content appear to inhibit the bioavailability of these elements. Concentrations of iodine in rice are low (< or = 58 ng/g) and rice does not provide a significant source of iodine in the Sri Lankan diet. High concentrations of iodine (up to 84 microg/l) in drinking water in the dry zone may, in part, explain why goitre is uncommon in this area. This study has shown for the first time that significant proportions of the Sri Lankan female population may be Se deficient (24, 24 and 40% in the NIDD, MIDD and HIDD villages, respectively). Although Se deficiency is not restricted to areas where goitre is prevalent, a combination of iodine and Se deficiency could be involved in the pathogenesis of goitre in Sri Lanka. The distribution of red rice cultivation in Sri Lanka is coincident with the HIDD villages. Varieties of red rice grown in other countries contain anthocyanins and procyanidins, compounds which in other foodstuffs are known goitrogens. The potential goitrogenic properties of red rice in Sri Lanka are presently unknown and require further investigation. It is likely that the incidence of goitre in Sri Lanka is multi-factorial, involving trace element deficiencies and other factors such as poor nutrition and goitrogens in foodstuffs.
11194158	A simple apparatus for collecting methane emission from a simulated rice field ecosystem was formed. With no wheat straw powder amended all treatments with inhibitor(s) had so much lower methane emission during rice growth than the treatment with urea alone (control), which was contrary to methane emission from the cut rice-soil system. Especially for treatments with dicyandiamide (DCD) and with DCD plus hydroquinone (HQ), the total amount of methane emission from the soil system and intact rice-soil system was 68.25-46.64% and 46.89-41.78% of the control, respectively. Hence, DCD, especially in combination with HQ, not only increased methane oxidation in the floodwater-soil interface following application of urea, but also significantly enhanced methane oxidation in rice root rhizosphere, particularly from its tillering to booting stage. Wheat straw powder incorporated into flooded surface layer soil significantly weakened the above-mentioned simulating effects. Regression analysis indicated that methane emission from the rice field ecosystem was related to the turnover of ammonium-N in flooded surface layer soil. Diminishing methane emissions from the rice field ecosystem was significantly beneficial to the growth of rice.
11195162	To study the association of lifestyle parameters with the future risk of hypertension in normotensive subjects, a baseline questionnaire and a four-year follow-up were performed in 445 normotensive Japanese at 35 to 89 years of age. In 60 to 69 year old subjects, the changes of blood pressure during four years were negatively correlated with the amount of boiled rice intake in men and with Japanese tea intake in women. Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that miso-soup intake at two bowls per day or over was protective against hypertension during follow-up (p < 0.05). These results indicate that food intake is important in the prevention of hypertension in the elderly.
11195774	Without adequate care, acute ankle trauma can result in chronic joint instability. Use of a standardized protocol enhances the management of ankle sprains. In patients with grades I or II sprains, emphasis should be placed on accurate diagnosis, early use of RICE (rest, ice, compression and elevation), maintenance of range of motion and use of an ankle support. Sprains with complete ligament [corrected] tears (grade III) may require surgical intervention. Although early motion and mobility are recommended, ligamentous strength does not return until months after an ankle sprain.
11197322	We have previously identified a rice gene encoding a 27 kDa protein with a single Ca2+-binding EF-hand and a putative membrane anchor. We report here similar genes termed caleosins, CLO, in other plants and fungi; they comprise a multigene family of at least five members in Arabidopsis (AtClo1-5). Northern hybridization demonstrated that AtClo2-4 mRNAs levels were low in various tissues, while AtClo1 mRNA levels were high in developing embryos and mature seeds. Analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the GUS reporter under control of the AtClo1 promoter showed strong levels of expression in developing embryos and also in root tip cells. Antibodies raised against AtCLO1 were used to detect caleosin in cellular fractions of Arabidopsis and rapeseed. This indicated that caleosins are a novel class of lipid body proteins, which may also be associated with an ER subdomain.
11197326	OsMADS1 is a MADS box gene controlling flower development in rice. In order to learn more about the function of OsMADS1, we searched for cellular proteins interacting with OsMADS1 employing the yeast two-hybrid system. Two novel proteins with MADS domains, which were named OsMADS14 and OsMADS15, were isolated from a rice cDNA library. OsMADS14 and -15 are highly homologous to the maize MADS box gene ZAP1 which is an orthologue of the floral homeotic gene APETALA1 (AP1). Interactions among the three MADS domain proteins were confirmed by in vitro experiments using GST-fused OsMADS1 expressed in Escherichia coli and in vitro translated proteins of OsMADS14 and -15. We determined which domains in OsMADS1, -14, and -15 were required for protein-protein interaction employing the two-hybrid system and pull-down experiments. While the K domain was essential for protein-protein interaction, a region preceded by the K domain augmented this interaction. Interestingly, the C-terminal region of OsMADS1 functioned as a transcriptional activation domain in yeast and mammalian cells, while, on the other hand, the C domains of OsMADS14 and -15 exhibited only very weak transcriptional activator functionality, if any at all.
11197839	Millennium genome project had started 2000 April as a national research project. In this project, analysis of single nucleotide polymorphism of human genome and application of its information on prevention, diagnosis and treatment of major diseases, and on drug development, regenerative medicine, and analysis of rice genome are included. This project is scheduled to complete by 2004. Since large amount of research money and research power is going to be poured to this project, fruitful results are a national expectation.
11198170	Soil amended with different proportions of flyash, a solid waste generated from coal-fired thermal power plants, was evaluated as a soil conditioner and nutrient supplement during a field study on the growth of rice, Oryza sativa. Generally, pH and organic carbon (OC) content did not increase significantly (P > 0.05) in flyash amended soil, but significant increases (P < 0.05) in soil conductivity (32%), available phosphorus (48%) and organic matter (OM, 29%) were observed during harvest at the 20 t ha-1 flyash application rate. Amylase, invertase, dehydrogenase and protease activities, and CO2 evolution increased in flyash amended soil over the control. The pigment (chl-a, chl-b, and carotenoid) content in rice plants did not vary significantly (P > 0.05) between different flyash amendments. Total plants biomass and aboveground biomass increased (P < 0.05) significantly (17% and 25%, respectively) at the 20 t ha-1 flyash application. However, there was a retarded growth of underground biomass. Grain and straw yield increased by 21% and 18%, respectively, at 17.5 t ha-1 flyash amendment when compared to the control. Although, a significant increase (P < 0.05) in plant biomass and grain yield in flyash amended soil is encouraging from the point of waste disposal and management, elucidation of reasons for retarded growth in underground biomass will require additional research based on long-term studies.
11198180	In order to arrest the declining productivity of the soils in the Abakaliki agro-ecological zone of S.E. Nigeria, four levels (12.5, 25.0, 37.5 and 50.0 Mg ha-1) of fresh (FW) and burnt (BW) rice-mill wastes abundant in the area, and a mixture of the waste + NPK and NPK alone were added to the soil (Typic-Haplustult) to evaluate their immediate and residual effects on the productivity of the soil using maize (Zea mays L.) as a test crop. Results showed a significant reduction in bulk density as well as improvements in total porosity and water stable aggregates (WSA > 0.5 mm) at levels > 12.5 Mg ha-1 of the FW amendments. Although both amendments failed to improve the soil pH, significant improvements in soil C, N and BS were obtained at 37.5 Mg ha-1 and above in both amendments. The highest relative increase (TF) of 135.1% and 102.8% in C and N in the first season and 94.4% and 99.3% in the second season were obtained in the FW at 50.0 Mg ha-1. The highest maize grain yields of 2.74 and 2.66 Mg ha-1 were obtained in the waste + NPK mixtures (FW/BW + NPK) in the first season. The residual yield was highest (1.45 Mg ha-1) in the FW amendment at 50.0 Mg ha-1. The results showed that regular and properly planned applications of these wastes can sustain the productivity of soils in this region.
11198424	We previously characterized an OsPSK cDNA encoding a precursor of phytosulfokine-alpha (PSK-alpha), a peptide plant growth factor. Southern blot analysis suggested that OsPSK is a single-copy gene in rice, which we have isolated and characterized. The OsPSK gene consists of one large intron and two exons. The 5-amino acid PSK-alpha sequence located close to the COOH-terminus of the precursor is encoded in the second exon. A putative TATA box was found at position -68 with respect to the transcription initiation site. Upstream of this sequence, several potential regulatory elements, including one CAAT-box, three CCAAT-boxes, one enhancer core-like sequence, and three E-boxes could be identified. By constructing plasmids with various lengths of the 5'-upstream regions of the OsPSK gene fused to the coding sequence for bacterial beta-glucuronidase (GUS), we demonstrated a region 1.9 kb upstream of the transcription initiation point, which contains most of the putative 5'-regulatory elements, to be sufficient for maximal-level GUS expression in transformed rice Oc cells. The promoter of the OsPSK gene gave significantly higher levels of GUS expression than the CaMV 35S promoter. These results suggest that the OsPSK promoter could be useful for the constitutive expression of a foreign gene at high levels in transformed rice culture cells. Northern blot analyses suggest that the expression of OsPSK is reinforced by auxin and cytokinin.
11198923	The efficacy of formulations containing methylated soybean oil (MSO) alone and with technical-grade Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (Bti) were compared to Golden Bear Oil (GB-1111) and a water-based Bti formulation against 3rd- to 4th-stage Anopheles quadrimaculatus larvae confined to sentinel cages in small rice plots. Three replicates each of MSO with 2% Pyroter added as a surfactant (MSO + PYR), MSO with 2% Pyroter and 4 g of Bti technical powder (MSO + PYR + Bti), GB-1111, a water-based formulation with 4 g of Bti technical powder (Bti + water), and untreated controls were performed. Mosquito larvae were introduced on the 1st day of treatment and at 4 days posttreatment. Mortality was recorded at 24 and 48 h posttreatment for the 1st installation and at 5 days posttreatment for the 2nd installation. The Bti + water formulation provided 71% control and the MSO + PYR + Bti formulation achieved 64% control, whereas MSO + PYR and GB-1111 produced 16 and 18% control, respectively, at 24 h posttreatment. With the exception of MSO + PYR + Bti, which decreased by 2%, the mean percent control increased slightly at 48h posttreatment across remaining treatments, with Bti + water obtaining 72% control. This was significantly higher than GB-1111, which achieved 23% control at 48 h posttreatment. The MSO + PYR and MSO + PYR + Bti formulations yielded 56 and 62% control, respectively, during the same interval and were not significantly different from one another. Formulations containing MSO + PYR exhibited delayed activity similar to GB-1111, with all formulations except MSO + PYR + Bti providing greatest control at 48 h posttreatment. Both MSO formulations (MSO + PYR + Bti and MSO + PYR) were statistically comparable to Bti + water and GB-1111, respectively, at 24 and 48 h posttreatment. None of the formulations exhibited a residual activity adequate enough to control An. quadrimaculatus larvae for up to 5 days.
11201355	A total of 3,235 Dermacentor variabilis (Say) specimens were collected from birds, mammals, and by dragging vegetation, and 2,683 D. albipictus (Packard) ticks were collected from deer from 1993 to 1996. Peak seasonal occurrence of adult D. variabilis was from May through July with a precipitous decrease in August. Nymphal D. variabilis populations peaked in June. Peak activity of larvae was bimodal, with one activity peak during late summer (September) and a second peak in winter or early spring. The raccoon, Procyon lotor (L.), was the principal host of adults followed by the Virginia opossum, Didelphis virginiana Kerr. Rodents and the eastern cottontail rabbit, Sylvilagus floridanus (J. A. Allen), were the primary hosts of nymphs. The marsh rice rat, Oryzomys palustris (Harlan), was the principal host of larvae followed by the pine vole, Microtus pinetorum (Le Conte), and white-footed mouse, Peromyscus leucopus (Rafinesque). All stages of D. albipictus were found only on white-tailed deer, Odocoileus virginianus (Zimmermann). Numbers of adult and nymphal D. albipictus peaked in November, whereas larvae peaked in September.
11201431	1. Hazelnut husks and some other litter materials were compared for litter properties and their effects on broiler performance. 2. A total of 750 1-d-old broiler chicks were weighed and assigned at random to 1 of 5 treatments, with each treatment replicated 3 times. 3. The treatments were wood shavings (control), wheat stalks, rice hulls, hazelnut husks, and a mixture of 50% rice hulls and 50% hazelnut husks. 4. Although hazelnut husks were associated with lower body weights at 49 d of age, food efficiency mortality, carcase yield, breast blisters and production index were similar to birds on wood shavings. Hazelnut husks had the highest litter moisture. 5. The results show that hazelnut husks alone and when mixed with rice hulls are a potential alternative litter material for broiler production.
11201662	To determine whether low-dose oral administration of cadmium (Cd) induces renal toxicity, six groups of female Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a diet containing low amounts of CdCl2 or Cd-polluted rice at concentrations up to 40 ppm, and were killed after 12, 18, and 22 months (experiment 1). In addition to the determination of cortical Cd levels and histopathological assessment of kidneys, labeling indices (LIs) for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in the renal cortical tubular epithelium of Cd-treated rats were determined as a measure of regenerative activity. For comparison, the kidneys of rats given diets containing small to large amounts of CdCl2 up to 600 ppm for 4 months were similarly examined (experiment 2). Animals in experiment 1 demonstrated spontaneous chronic nephropathy and fluctuation in the tubular PCNA LI, but these findings were not correlated with renal Cd levels at 22 months. PCNA LI on the other hand, appeared to be linked to the severity of chronic nephropathy. In experiment 2, levels of CdCl2 of 200 ppm or more clearly induced degeneration and apoptosis of proximal tubules with high correlations between renal Cd levels, PCNA LI, and the severity of tubular degeneration. The results demonstrated that, in contrast to high-dose Cd administration, treatment with 40 ppm or less for 22 months did not influence tubular regeneration as a component of nonspecific chronic nephropathy, suggesting that long-term oral administration of low levels of Cd does not injure renal tubules in female rats.
11204184	When adult males of the smaller brown planthopper, Laodelphax striatellus were fed on 2% crude rice (leaf and stem) extract containing 15% sucrose there were characteristic stylet sheaths deposited on parafilm membrane. Further bioassays with the butanol-soluble fr. of the extract revealed that it is highly effective for the insects. When the butanol fr. was charged on an ODS open column and eluted in sequence with 20, 40 and 100% methanol in water, the ODS-40% methanol fr. was shown as the most effective one. Further separation of the ODS-40% methanol fr. resulted in six effective components. These components acted to stimulate very high probing response on L. striatellus only when they are combined. This activity was found to be similar to those of the ODS-40% methanol fr. and the original crude rice plant extract. Two of the active components were identified as tricin 5-O-glucoside and tricin 7-O-glucoside, respectively, through spectroscopic analyses.
11204355	Sexual partners often harbour identical yeast strains in the vagina, in the orointestinal tract and in semen in cases of recurrent vulvovaginal candidoses. Specimen were collected from vagina, oral cavity and faeces of the patients, and from semen, oral cavity and faeces of their male partners. Mycological cultures were grown on Sabouraud glucose-agar and, if positive, specified by Candida-ID-Agar (BioMrieux), by formation of chlamydospores on rice agar, and by biochemotyping with the System Walkaway (Dade) or the API-32C system (BioMrieux). A polymerase chain reaction finger-printing technique with the T3B oligonucleotide as single primer was used for strain typing. Candida albicans was isolated from the vagina of 18 out of 21 patients, the vagina of one patient harboured a strain of Candida glabrata. The cultures obtained from vagina, oral cavity and faeces were genetically identical in 12 patients. From the partners of 15 patients C. albicans was cultured in at least one of the clinical samples. Identical strains were observed for eight of 15 couples, whereas four of these identical strains were cultured from semen. Further prospective investigations will prove whether a consequent treatment of both partners will eradicate identical yeast strains and will be able to improve the results of treatment in such women.
11205110	We have recently demonstrated the geographic isolation of rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) populations in the tungro-endemic provinces of Isabela and North Cotabato, Philippines. In this study, we examined the genetic structure of the virus populations at the tungro-outbreak sites of Lanao del Norte, a province adjacent to North Cotabato. We also analyzed the virus populations at the tungro-endemic sites of Subang, Indonesia, and Dien Khanh, Vietnam. Total DNA extracts from 274 isolates were digested with EcoRV restriction enzyme and hybridized with a full-length probe of RTBV. In the total population, 22 EcoRV-restricted genome profiles (genotypes) were identified. Although overlapping genotypes could be observed, the outbreak sites of Lanao del Norte had a genotype combination distinct from that of Subang or Dien Khanh but a genotype combination similar to that identified earlier from North Cotabato, the adjacent endemic province. Sequence analysis of the intergenic region and part of the ORF1 RTBV genome from randomly selected genotypes confirms the geographic clustering of RTBV genotypes and, combined with restriction analysis, the results suggest a fragmented spatial distribution of RTBV local populations in the three countries. Because RTBV depends on rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) for transmission, the population dynamics of both tungro viruses were then examined at the endemic and outbreak sites within the Philippines. The RTBV genotypes and the coat protein RTSV genotypes were used as indicators for virus diversity. A shift in population structure of both viruses was observed at the outbreak sites with a reduced RTBV but increased RTSV gene diversity.
11205411	A 30-year-old man with atopic dermatitis had had erythema and itching of the hands after washing rice in water, though he had always eaten cooked rice without problems. Handling test with water used to wash regular rice was performed on abraded hands, and produced urticarial erythema after several minutes. Applications of water used to wash allergen-reduced rice were negative for urticarial reaction. Prick test with water used to wash regular rice was +++. However prick test reaction with water used to wash allergen-reduced rice was +. Histamine-release test of regular rice-washing water was grade 3 and that of allergen-reduced rice grade 1. In immunoblotting analysis with regular rice washing water, there were no bands with this patient. These results suggest that the allergen responsible for contact urticaria in this patient might be water-soluble, heat-unstable, and not contained in allergen-reduced rice.
11206973	We used particle bombardment to produce transgenic wheat and rice plants expressing recombinant soybean ferritin, a protein that can store large amounts of iron. The cDNA sequence was isolated from soybean by RT-PCR and expressed using the constitutive maize ubiquitin-1 promoter. The presence of ferritin mRNA and protein was confirmed in the vegetative tissues and seeds of transgenic wheat and rice plants by northern and western blot analysis, respectively. The levels of ferritin mRNA were similar in the vegetative tissues of both species, but ferritin protein levels were higher in rice. Both ferritin mRNA and protein levels were lower in wheat and rice seeds. ICAP spectrometry showed that iron levels increased only in vegetative tissues of transgenic plants, and not in the seeds. These data indicate that recombinant ferritin expression under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter significantly increases iron levels in vegetative tissues, but that the levels of recombinant ferritin in seeds are not sufficient to increase iron levels significantly over those in the seeds of non-transgenic plants.
11206974	Independent transgenic rice lines overexpressing the rice CDPK isoform OsCDPK2 were generated by particle bombardment. High levels of OsCDPK2 were detected in leaves removed from etiolated plants, as well as in stems and flowers. However, there was no overexpression in green leaves that had been exposed to light, confirming that OsCDPK2 protein stability was subject to light regulation. The morphological phenotype of transgenic plants producing high levels of recombinant OsCDPK2 was normal until the onset of seed development. Flowers developed normally, producing well-shaped ovaries and stigmas, and mature anthers filled with pollen grains. However, seed formation in these plants was strongly inhibited, with only 3-7% of the flowers producing seeds. Seed development was arrested at an early stage. We discuss these data with respect to the possible requirement for specific CDPK isoforms during rice seed development.
11206976	In this study, floral spray and floral dip were used to replace the vacuum step in the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of a superoxide dismutase (SOD) gene into Arabidopsis. The transgene was constructed by using a CaMV 35S promoter to drive a rice cytosolic CuZnSOD coding sequence in Arabidopsis. The transgene construct was developed in binary vectors and mobilized into Agrobacterium. When Arabidopsis plants started to initiate flower buds, the primary inflorescence shoots were removed and then transformed by floral spray or floral dip. More than 300 transgenic plants were generated to assess the feasibility of floral spray used in the in planta transformation. The result indicates that the floral spray method of Agrobacterium can achieve rates of in planta transformation comparable to the vacuum-infiltration and floral dip methods. The floral spray method opens up the possibility of in planta transformation of plant species which are too large for dipping or vacuum infiltration.
11207731	Washed excised roots of rice (Oryza sativa) immediately started to produce CH4 when they were incubated in phosphate buffer under anoxic conditions (N2 atmosphere), with initial rates varying between 2 and 70nmolh(-1)g(-1) dry weight of root material (mean +/- SE: 20.3 +/- 5.9 nmol h(-1) g(-1) dry weight; n = 18). Production of CH4 continued for at least 500 h, with rates usually decreasing slowly. CH4 production was not significantly affected by methyl fluoride, an inhibitor of acetoclastic methanogenesis. Less than 0.5% of added [2-14C]-acetate was converted to 14CH4, and conversion of 14CO2 to 14CH4 indicated that CH4 was almost exclusively produced from CO2. Occasionally, however, especially when the roots were incubated without additional buffer, CH4 production started to accelerate after about 200h reaching rates of > 100 nmol h(-1) g(-1) dry weight. Methyl fluoride inhibited methanogenesis by more than 20% only in these cases, and the conversion of 14CO2 to 14CH4 decreased. These results indicate that CO2-dependent rather than acetoclastic methanogenesis was primarily responsible for CH4 production in anoxically incubated rice roots. Determination of most probable numbers of methanogens on washed roots showed highest numbers (10(6)g(-1) dry roots) on H2 and ethanol, i.e. substrates that support CH4 production from CO2. Numbers on acetate (10(5) g(-1) dry roots) and methanol (10(4)g(-1) dry roots) were lower. Methanogenic consortia enriched on H2 and ethanol were characterized phylogenetically by comparative sequence analysis of archaeal small-subunit (SSU) ribosomal RNA-encoding genes (rDNA). These sequences showed a high similarity to SSU rDNA clones that had been obtained previously by direct extraction of total DNA from washed rice roots. The SSU rDNA sequences recovered from the H2/CO2-using consortium either belonged to a novel lineage of methanogens that grouped within the phylogenetic radiation of the Methanosarcinales and Methanomicrobiales or were affiliated with Methanobacterium bryantii. SSU rDNA sequences retrieved from the ethanol-using consortium either grouped within the genus Methanosarcina or belonged to another novel lineage within the phylogenetic radiation of the Methanosarcinales and Methanomicrobiales. Cultured organisms belonging to either of the two novel lineages have not been reported yet.
11209693	Using pAHC20 (containing Bar gene), pWRG1515 (containing GUS gene and hygromycin phosphotransferase gene), and pCAMBIA3300 RG with Bar gene and snowdrop lectin (GNA) gene as donor DNA, the micro-adventitious shoots and the calli induced from mature embryos of Oryza sativa 87203, Eyi105, Shangnong aromatic glutinous rice as recipients were transformed with particle bombardment and Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 containing pAL4404, respectively. After chosen with phosphinothricin and antibiotic, GUS detection and PCR analysis, The results showed that the foreign genes had been transformed microprojectile-mediated to Oryza sativa Eyi105, the regeneration plants were obtained, and, 5 transgenic calli of Oryza sativa Eyi105 were obtained with Agrobacterium-mediated transformation.
11209708	Tiller angle is one of important characters that constitute plant type with great significance in breading. A pair of japonica/indica lines, which were significantly different in tiller angle, were used in this study. A DH population were constructed via anther culture of F1 hybrids. The tiller angles of 115 DH lines were measured. QTL analysis was conducted based on the constructed molecular linkage map. Three QTLs (qTA-9a, qTA-9b and qTA-12) were detected on chromosome 9 and 12 respectively, Their variation were 22.7%, 11.9% and 20.9% respectively and their additive effects were all negative, showing this character was controlled by genes from big tiller angle parent ZYQ8. The application of the tiller angle that was controlled by major genes and minor genes in rice breeding is also discussed.
11209709	For investigating the linkage group to which the semidwarf gene sd-t belongs, the crosses between Aitaiyin 2(ATY2), a variety of sd-t carrier in indica rice, and marker stocks as well as the trisomic lines of IR36 were made. The results indicated that the sd-t gene was linked to the marker genes Prp-b (Purple pericap b), lg(ligueless) and Wh(White hull). The recombination values estimated were 2.85% +/- 0.52% for sd-t to Prp-b, 27.90% +/- 3.81% for sd-t to lg and 38.62% +/- 2.99% for sd-t to Wh, respectively. It was inferred that the sd-t gene was located on chromosome 4 according to the established relationship between chromosomes and linkage groups.
11212550	A range of paper and board materials including carton board, corrugated board, napkins and paper towels intended for contact with food have been solvent extracted and substances present at the highest levels identified and quantified by GC/MS. Dibutyl phthalate, and diisopropylnaphthalene (DIPN) were selected to study migration to food and potential food simulants with the aim of developing a simple quick test that will give an equivalent or higher result. Tenax was found to be a suitable food simulant for dry foods and dry 'fatty foods' such as pastry and cake and was also found to be a suitable simulant for pizza base tested at higher temperatures for short contact times. The percentage migration values from corrugated and carton boards were generally in the range 15-40%, with the highest percentage being 49% for rice using conditions representing ambient storage. Quick tests were developed using Tenax under accelerated conditions of 4 h at 80 degrees C to cover room temperature storage with dry foods and fatty dry foods. These tests are suitable for compliance testing of paperboard samples if migration limits are applied in future legislation. Migration from tissues, napkins and paper towels was found to be at very low or not detectable levels, even when the levels of DIPN and DBP were significant. It is strongly suspected that this finding is due to a combination of short contact time, low grammage and the fact that the tissues absorb fat and moisture from foods, thus minimizing extraction from the paper. In all cases, the results from migration experiments into food and Tenax indicate that for the substances found at highest concentrations in the paper, currently accepted safety limits were not exceeded where they exist in EU legislation or in working documents applying to plastics.
11213430	Some in vitro properties of chloroquine phosphate tablets formulated with four modified starches were investigated. The drug was formulated as tablets containing 250 mg of chloroquine phosphate and produced by the direct compression technique. The starches were isolated from maize, zea mays, rice, Oryza sativa, cassava, Manihot esculenta and cocoyam, Zanthosoma sagittifolium. They were modified through physicochemical process, Sta-Rx 1500, a directly compressible starch was used as basis for comparison. The hardness of the chloroquine tablets generally decreased to a minimum with all the modified starches at concentration level of 40% and with maximum hardness obtained when their concentrations were increased to 80%. The least hardness values were obtained with modified cocoa yam starch while the highest hardness values were obtained with modified rice starch. Modified rice and cassava starches produced chloroquine tablets that exhibited higher mechanical properties than those of modified maize starch, cocoayam starch and Sta-Rx 1500. On the basis of dissolution profile of chloroquine phosphate tablets, the modified starch samples were ranked in order of increasing dissolution as modified cocoayam maize Sta-Rx 1500 cassava rice starch sample. The release rate of chloroquine was found to be dependent on the physico-chemical properties of the individual modified starch granules such as particle size and degree of gelatinization.
11214290
11214291
11214799	The activity and distribution of methanotrophs in soil depend on the availability of CH4 and O2. Therefore, we investigated the activity and structure of the methanotrophic community in rice field soil under four factorial combinations of high and low CH4 and O2 concentrations. The methanotrophic population structure was resolved by denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) with different PCR primer sets targeting the 16S rRNA gene, and two functional genes coding for key enzymes in methanotrophs, i.e. the particulate methane monooxygenase (pmoA) and the methanol dehydrogenase (mxaF). Changes in the biomass of type I and II methanotrophic bacteria in the rice soil were determined by analysis of phospholipid-ester-linked fatty acid (PLFA) biomarkers. The relative contribution of type I and II methanotrophs to the measured methane oxidation activity was determined by labelling of soil samples with 14CH4 followed by analysis of [14C]-PLFAs. CH4 oxidation was repressed by high O2 (20.5%), and enhanced by low O2 (1%). Depending on the CH4 and O2 mixing ratios, different methanotrophic communities developed with a higher diversity at low than at high CH4 concentration as revealed by PCR-DGGE. However, a prevalence of type I or II populations was not detected. The [14C]-PLFA fingerprints, on the other hand, revealed that CH4 oxidation activity was dominated by type I methanotrophs in incubations with low CH4 mixing ratios (1000 p.p.m.v.) and during initiation of CH4 consumption regardless of O2 or CH4 mixing ratio. At high methane mixing ratios (10 000 p.p.m.v.), type I and II methanotrophs contributed equally to the measured CH4 metabolism. Collectively, type I methanotrophs responded fast and with pronounced shifts in population structure and dominated the activity under all four gas mixtures. Type II methanotrophs, on the other hand, although apparently more abundant, always present and showing a largely stable population structure, became active later and contributed to CH4 oxidation activity mainly under high CH4 mixing ratios.
11214869	For selectively excited calcium K X-rays in rice saplings, the relations alpha = N(KR)[1 + A gamma + B beta/(1 + alpha)] and 1/N(Ca) = alpha/beta + b + c beta are found to support the enhancement of potassium K X-rays and N(Ca) calcium K X-ray counts during potassium and calcium determinations, respectively. Here alpha, beta and gamma are weight fractions of potassium, calcium and the matrix substrate, respectively, N(KR) is the relative potassium K X-ray counts of the sample to that of pure potassium and A, B, a, b and c are constants. Tests of these relations, using eight known mixtures of CaCO3, KNO3 and Na2B4O7 10H2O (borax), have further supported the findings.
11214972
11215644	Cinosulfuron (3-(4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)-1-[2-(2-methoxyethoxy)-phenylsulfonyl]-urea) is a sulfonylurea herbicide used to control a wide range of broadleaf weeds in rice (Oryza sativa L.). A 2-yr field study was conducted in northwest Italy to determine the effect of cinosulfuron on surface and subsoil waters in rice paddies. Cinosulfuron was applied at 70 g a.i. ha(-1) on 35 ha of flooded rice. After the treatment, the change in herbicide concentration over time was studied by analyzing water and sediment samples in a test paddy field (2.16 ha, located in the treated area), water in a spring and a pond (both located near the test paddy), two wells (up- and downhill to the treated area), and two piezometers (along the test paddy levee). To better understand some of the field study results, cinosulfuron degradation was also evaluated in the laboratory in solutions buffered to different pH values. Two weeks after the treatment, the cinosulfuron concentration in the paddy water decreased by about 60%. No cinosulfuron was detected at about 2.5 mo after the treatment. The concentration in the sediment gradually increased after the treatment, reaching the highest value (13.53 microg kg(-1)) 3 wk later. The maximum cinosulfuron content in the spring and pond were 0.91 and 0.29 microg L(-1), respectively, and these were detected 60 to 90 days after treatment (DAT). The water collected in the piezometers reached the highest concentration (0.99 microg L(-1)) 29 DAT. Cinosulfuron was never detected in the wells. In the degradation study at different pH values, cinosulfuron degraded rapidly at low pH values.
11216469	Polyphenolic compound chlorogenic acid (CGA) known to be much contained in coffee beans was found to have a regressive effect on induced aberrant crypt foci (ACF) as well as on development of ACF in azoxymethane (AOM)-induced colorectal carcinogenesis in rats. Rice germ and gamma-aminobutyric acid-enriched defatted rice germ inhibited AOM-induced ACF formation and colorectal carcinogenesis in rats. Ferulic acid (FA) also known to be contained in coffee beans and rice prevented AOM-induced ACF formation and intestinal carcinogenesis in rats. Both of food factors, coffee and rice may be of benefit to prevention of human colorectal cancers.
11216482	Consumption of plant-derived foods, especially fruits and vegetables, has been linked to decreased risk of cancer. Laboratory studies with animals and cells in culture have shown cancer preventive activity of chemicals isolated from soy, tea, rice and many green, yellow and orange fruits and vegetables. Using cell culture, transgenic mice and knockout mice models to examine the anti-cancer effects of these dietary factors at the molecular level, we found that (11) (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), the major active polyphenol in green tea, and theaflavins, the major active components in black tea, inhibit epidermal growth factor (EGF)- or 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced JB6 cell transformation. At the same dose range that inhibited cell transformation, EGCG and theaflavins inhibited activator protein-1 (AP-1) activation. These compounds also inhibited ultraviolet B (UVB)-induced AP-1 and nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB)-dependent transcriptional activation; (2) resveratrol, found at high levels in grapes, inhibited cell transformation through the induction of apoptosis, mediated through JNK and p53-dependent pathways; (3) inositol hexaphosphate (InsP6), an active compound from rice and other grains, inhibited TPA- or EGF-induced transformation and signal transduction through its effects on phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI-3) kinase; (4) phenethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC), which occurs as a conjugate in certain cruciferous vegetables, inhibited cell transformation corresponding with the induction of apoptosis. An elevation of p53 is required for PEITC-induced apoptosis. Our studies indicated that the chemopreventive effect of these food factors may be mediated by their effects on different signal transduction pathways; (5) retinoids (vitamin A and its metabolites) inhibited tumor promoter-induced cell transformation and tumor promotion in transgenic mice through the inhibition of AP-1 action but not through the activation of retinoic acid response element (RARE).
11216843	During the course of characterization of the wound-response related proteins from tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) leaves, a serine carboxypeptidase (EC 3.4.16.1) was identified. An increase in peptidase activity in response to wounding, and the isolation of a protein with carboxypeptidase (CP) activity from tomato leaves had been reported previously, but the mRNA coding for the enzyme was not identified. We now report the isolation of a tomato leaf type I serine-CP cDNA whose corresponding mRNA is induced by wounding, systemin and methyl jasmonate. The protein sequence deduced from the cDNA exhibits homology to tomato CP, and barley and rice type I CPs. Southern blot results indicated that the CP gene is probably a member of a small gene family. Tomato CP mRNA was detected within 3 h after wounding, or treatment with systemin or methyl jasmonate. Employing Western blot analysis, CP protein was shown to increase 12 h after the treatments. Using the tomato def1 mutant, we have demonstrated that a functional octadecanoid pathway is necessary for CP transcription in response to wounding. Carboxypeptidase protein was immunolocalized as protein aggregates within the central vacuoles of palisade mesophyll cells as well as in vascular parenchyma where it had previously been found. Double labeling using antibodies specific for CP and inhibitor II indicated that the two proteins are colocalized in the vacuolar aggregates. Tomato CP is a member of the "late wound-inducible genes" whose mRNAs increase 4-12 h following wounding, in contrast to several "early wound-inducible genes", whose mRNAs appear within 30 min. The data support a role for the enzyme in protein turnover that occurs systemically in leaf cells in response to wounding.
11217977	Normal barley grain was milled to flour with a machine used to polish brewers' rice from the surface layer to the center. Large (18.4 microm, median size), medium (12.3 microm) and small (2.2 microm) granule starches were isolated from classified flours. Their physicochemical properties and fine structure were investigated. The percentage (w%) of large granules decreased from the surface layer to the center, while the amounts of medium and small granules increased. Although all the starch granules were an A-type crystal, the relative crystallinity varied from 22.0 to 27.4%. The DPn of the amyloses was around 1600 and similar for all the samples. But the amylose content of the starches varied from 21.9 to 26.4%. Also, the amylopectins showed differences in DPn (around 5700-7900) and chain-length distribution between granule size or fractions. The transition temperature ranges and the enthalpy values of the starch granules differed with granule size. The gelatinization properties showed no correlation with any of the parameters, except the enthalpy value and relative crystallinity (gamma = +0.73). The findings suggested that the structural characteristics of the starches in classified flours of normal barley differed essentially from those of waxy barley.
11218138	The application of a manual operated solid-phase microextraction (SPME)-HPLC interface is discussed for the analysis of thermally labile analytes in aqueous matrices. The technique has been applied on-site at a flooded rice field to demonstrate its potential for real time extraction of the herbicide profoxydim. Thus, compounds which would otherwise easily degrade in the aqueous matrices within hours or days could be determined more accurately. The fibers were shipped back to the laboratory with express delivery where the target analyte was desorbed from the fiber and determined by HPLC-UV analysis. The SPME method was characterized by significant ruggedness where conventional techniques such as liquid-liquid extraction and solid-phase extraction require additional shipping and handling costs and time-consuming multiple sample preparation steps. In general, any delay in shipping the aqueous samples to the laboratory has the potential for sample degradation and a loss in accuracy when using non on-site extraction techniques. Fifty microm Carbowax-templated resin coatings were most suitable for coupling SPME to HPLC in order to achieve a high sensitivity for polar analytes. The SPME technique was characterized by a good sensitivity and a precision less than 10% RSD. The SPME-LC-UV method was linear over at least three orders of magnitude while achieving a limit of detection in the lower microg/l range. The on-site SPME method has shown significantly increased accuracy. Profoxydim was determined at concentrations of ca. 180 microg/l 3 h after an application on a flooded bare soil field.
11218199	An outbreak of salmonellosis occurred among 63 wedding participants. The outbreak was investigated through cohort, laboratory, and environmental studies. Consumption of rice-dressing made from a commercially cooked, meat-based, rice-dressing mix was strongly associated with illness. Nineteen patient isolates, six company/grocery store isolates cultured from the rice-dressing mix, and one environmental isolate from a pump in the production line were of an identical outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis characterized by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. In the production line, cooked rice-dressing mix tested negative for S. Infantis before and positive after contact with the contaminated pump. The dressing-mix had an estimated 200 colony-forming units of salmonella per gram of product, and > 180,000 pounds were distributed in 9 states for > or = 2 months before contamination was recognized. Food manufacturers should be required to use systematic, hazard analysis critical control point risk management practices for all processed meat products, validated by periodic microbiologic monitoring of the end product.
11218807	Feeding of protein deficient diet is known to alter the transmembrane signalling in brain of rat by reducing total protein kinase C (PKC) activity. Phospholipid metabolism regulates the activation of PKC through generation of second messengers and the extent of PKC activation accordingly influences the magnitude of phosphorylation of its endogenous substrate proteins. Thus it was speculated that ingestion of protein deficient diet may modify the turnover rate of membrane phospholipids and magnitude of phosphorylation of endogenous substrate proteins of PKC. The experiments were conducted on rats fed on three different types of laboratory prepared diets viz. casein (20% casein), deficient (4% protein, rice flour as source of protein) and supplemented (deficient diet supplemented with L-lysine and DL-threonine) for 28 days. The metabolism of phosphoinositides (PIs) and phosphatidyl choline (PC) was studied by equilibrium labeling with [3H] myo inositol and [14C methyl] choline chloride respectively. The phosphorylation of endogenous substrate proteins of PKC was studied by using 32P-gamma-ATP followed by SDS-PAGE and autoradiography. The results suggest that in deficient group, there is an increased incorporation of [3H] myo inositol in PIs and inositol phosphate pool in comparison to the casein group. The phosphatidyl inositol (PI) turnover reduced, although there was a marginal increase in the phosphatidyl inositol monophosphate (PIP) and phosphatidyl inositol bis phosphate (PIP2). Supplementation of diet showed a reversal of the pattern towards control to a considerable extent. In the deficient group, PC metabolism showed an increased incorporation of [14C methyl] choline in choline phospholipids but decreased incorporation in phosphoryl choline in comparison with the casein group. The increase in total PC contents was significant but marginal in residue contents. The turnover rate of PC increased only marginally and that of residue declined. Supplementation of diet reduced the total contents of PC and residue, but the turnover rate of PC and residue remained still higher. Phosphorylation of endogenous proteins showed four different proteins of 78, 46, 33 and 16 kDa to be the substrates of PKC in casein group. In deficient group, phosphorylation of these proteins increased markedly while supplementation of diet had a reversing effect rendering the values to be intermediate between casein and the supplemented group. The changes in phospholipid metabolism and in phosphorylation of endogenous substrate proteins of PKC suggest that dietary protein deficiency causes alterations in transmembrane signalling mechanism in rat brain. These effects are partially reversed by improving the quality of proteins in the diet.
11219453	Two in vitro experiments were conducted to evaluate the ability of small intestinal bacteria of dogs to ferment native and extruded cereal grains and potato starch and cereal grain and potato flours. Substrates included barley, corn, potato, rice, sorghum, and wheat. In addition to testing native grains and flours, extruded substrates also were tested. Substrates were extruded at low temperatures (LT; 79 to 93 degrees C) and high temperatures (HT; 124 to 140 degrees C) using a Wenger extruder (model TX-52). Substrates varied widely in concentrations of rapidly digestible starch (RDS), slowly digestible starch (SDS), resistant starch (RS), and total starch (TS). Extrusion of most substrates at HT vs LT resulted in increased RDS and decreased RS concentrations. Organic matter disappearance (OMD) values attributed to microbial fermentation for a 5-h period were as high as 27% for native extruded substrates (LT potato starch) and 39% for potato flour. Average OMD was higher for cereal and potato flours than for native extruded substrates (29.9 vs 25.4%). Average molar percentages of short-chain fatty acids produced from all substrates fermented for 5 h were 73, 14, and 13% (acetate, propionate, and butyrate, respectively). Average lactate production for substrates ranked as follows: flours > native and extruded cereal grains and potato starch (0.33 and 0.18 mmol/g OM, respectively). In vitro microbial fermentation of starches by ileal bacteria can be substantial and is affected by differences in starch source, fraction, and processed form.
11219772	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common cause of cancer morbidity and mortality in Asia and Africa. Epidemiological studies have found that dietary exposure to aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) and chronic infection with hepatitis B virus are two major risk factors for HCC. We have collated the incidence and mortality data of malignant tumors from 1973 to 1999 in Zhuqing Village, Fusui County, an area with very high HCC rates, and found that this cancer accounted for 64% of the total cancer incidence. Dietary intake of AFB1 was monitored for 1 week in a study group consisting of 15 males and 14 females from different households in this village. Four of 29 participants (13.8%) and 3 of 15 (20%) male participants were hepatitis B virus surface antigen positive. AFB1 was detectable in 76.7% (23 of 30) of ground corn samples (range, 0.4-128.1 ppb), 66.7% (20 of 30) of cooking peanut oil samples (range, 0.1-52.5 ppb), and 23.3% (7 of 30) of rice samples (range, 0.3-2.0 ppb) collected from each household. Mean levels of serum AFB1-albumin adducts in this group were 1.24 +/- 0.31 pmol/mg of albumin at the beginning of the study and 1.21 +/- 0.19 pmol/mg of albumin at the end of the period. Urinary AFB1 metabolites were detectable in 88.9% (24 of 27) samples (range, 0.9-3569.7 ng/24-h urine). These data provide the exposure and disease risk information for establishing intervention studies to diminish the impact of aflatoxin exposure in this high-risk population.
11220300	Several diazotrophic species of Azoarcus spp. occur as endophytes in the pioneer plant Kallar grass. The purpose of this study was to screen Asian wild rice and cultivated Oryza sativa varieties for natural association with these endophytes. Populations of culturable diazotrophs in surface-sterilized roots were characterized by 16S rDNA sequence analysis, and Azoarcus species were identified by genomic fingerprints. A. indigens and Azoarcus sp. group C were detected only rarely, whereas Azoarcus sp. group D occurred frequently in samples of flooded plants: in 75% of wild rice, 80% of land races of O. sativa from Nepal and 33% of modern cultivars from Nepal and Italy. The putatively endophytic populations of diazotrophs differed with the rice genotype. The diversity of cultured diazotrophs was significantly lower in wild rice species than in modern cultivars. In Oryza officinalis (from Nepal) and O. minuta (from the Philippines), Azoarcus sp. group D were the predominant diazotrophic putative endophytes in roots. In contrast, their number was significantly lower in modern cultivars of O. sativa, whereas numbers and diversity of other diazotrophs, such as Azospirillum spp., Klebsiella sp., Sphingomonas paucimobilis, Burkholderia sp. and Azorhizobium caulinodans, were increased. In land races of O. sativa, the diazotrophic diversity was equally high; however, Azoarcus sp. was found in high apparent numbers. Similar differences in populations were also observed in a culture-independent approach comparing a wild rice (O. officinalis) and a modern-type O. sativa plant: in clone libraries of root-associated nitrogenase (nifH) gene fragments, the diazotrophic diversity was lower in the wild rice species. New lineages of nifH genes were detected, e.g. one deeply branching cluster within the anf (iron) nitrogenases. Our studies demonstrate that the natural host range of Azoarcus spp. extends to rice, wild rice species and old varieties being preferred over modern cultivars.
11220308	16S rDNA clone library analysis was used to examine the biodiversity and community structure within anoxic sediments of several marine-type salinity meromictic lakes and a coastal marine basin located in the Vestfolds Hills area of Eastern Antarctica. From 69 to 130 (555 total) 16S rDNA clones were analysed from each sediment sample, and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and sequence analysis grouped the clones into 202 distinct phylotypes (a clone group with sequence similarity of >0.98). A number of phylotypes and phylotype groups predominated in all libraries, with a group of 10 phylotypes (31% of clones) forming a novel deep branch within the low G+C Gram-positive division. Other abundant phylotypes detected in several different clone libraries grouped with Prochlorococcus cyanobacteria, diatom chloroplasts, delta proteobacteria (Desulfosarcina group, Syntrophus and Geobacterl Pelobacter/Desulphuromonas group), order Chlamydiales (Parachlamydiaceae) and Spirochaetales (wall-less Antarctic spirochaetes). Most archaeal clones detected (3.1% of clones) belonged to a highly diverged group of Euryarchaeota clustering with clones previously detected in rice soil, aquifer sediments and hydrothermal vent material. Little similarity existed between the phylotypes detected in this study and other clone libraries based on marine sediment, suggesting that an enormous prokaryotic diversity occurs within marine and marine-derived sediments.
11223257	The Bowman-Birk (BB) family of proteinase inhibitors (PI), initially reported from legume seeds, and thereafter also from wounded alfalfa and maize leaves appear to be regulated in similar ways as the extensively characterized PI I and PI II family from dicots. Here, we report a first characterization of the expression profiles of a rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) BBPI gene, OsBBPI, which is part of a multigene family as demonstrated by genomic Southern hybridization. OsBBPI was found to be rapidly induced in rice seedling leaf in response to cut, exogenous jasmonic acid (JA), and two potent protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) inhibitors, cantharidin (CN) and endothall (EN), in a light/dark-, time- and dose-dependent manner; this induction was completely inhibited by cycloheximide (CHX), indicating a requirement for de novo protein synthesis in its induction. Surprisingly, dark strongly up regulated cut-, JA-, CN-, and EN-induced OsBBPI expression, with the strongest enhancement observed with JA. A simultaneous application of a serine/threonine protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine (ST) did not affect significantly the JA-, CN-, and EN-induced OsBBPI transcript. Besides JA, it was found that the ethylene generator ethephon (ET) also had an enhancing effect on OsBBPI transcript, suggesting a direct effect of ethylene on OsBBPI expression. However, a simultaneous application of salicylic acid (SA) and abscisic acid (ABA), with JA, respectively, completely blocked OsBBPI gene expression, whereas kinetin (KN) was only partially effective. To the best of our knowledge, complete inhibition of JA-induced OsBBPI expression by SA is the first report in monocots, and with ABA in plants. Taken together, these results suggest that among the phytohormones tested here, JA and ethylene play important role(s) in regulating OsBBPI expression, with an intimate interaction with light signals. Finally, that the induced OsBBPI expression follows a kinase-signaling cascade is implied by the use of PP2A inhibitors.
11225613
11227173	The authors evaluate gastric emptying in diabetic patients and follow up selected factors which may influence it. In a group of 25 type 1 diabetics selected at random (12 women and 13 men), mean age 40.5 years +/- 11.6 SD (range 21 to 57 years) with a duration of diabetes of 17.8 +/- 7.9 years (minimum 4, maximum 35 years) with a mean value of glycosylated haemoglobin of 8.71% +/- 1.82 (minimum 7.2, maximum 12.2%) the authors assessed: the time of gastric emptying by scintigraphic follow up of the progress of solid food (rice labelled with 99mTc). 2. The correlation of gastric emptying and time factors (age, duration of diabetes) and metabolic factors (blood sugar level, glycosylated haemoglobin). 3. Relations of impaired gastric emptying and the presence of gastrointestinal symptoms. Only 9 patients had normal gastric emptying (36%). In 16 patients (64%) the time was pathologically altered, incl. 5 (20%) where the period was reduced, while in 11 (44%) the time was prolonged. After classifying the diabetics into three groups according to the period of gastric emptying in minutes (group I < 40, group II 40-90, group III > 90) by means of the statistical method ANOVA a significant correlation was found between the time of gastric emptying and age (p < 0.036) and the duration of diabetes (p < 0.0044). No significant relationship was found between metabolic parameters (blood glucose level, glycosylated haemoglobin) and the time of gastric emptying. The authors did not find any significant relationship between impaired gastric emptying and subjective symptoms. Impaired gastric emptying is frequently encountered in diabetics. In the authors group there was only a correlation between the time of gastric emptying and age and the duration of diabetes. The authors did not find a relationship with the blood glucose level or glycosylated haemoglobin. Impaired gastric emptying was not correlated with subjective gastrointestinal symptoms.
11227679	The steam burn caused by an electric rice-cooker is a unique mode of burn injury in Asian countries, especially Korea and Japan. This type of burn injury is characterized by 1) occurring most frequently on the volar aspect of the hand in toddlers younger than 2 years of age (92.8%); 2) the depth of burns are normally deep second-degree to third-degree (98%) and usually need surgery at the time of injury; 3) flexion contractures of multiple finger joints and web space contracture are common sequelae. We hypothesized that primary full-thickness skin graft (FTSG) would give more reliable results and eliminate the late reconstructive procedures. Between January 1997 and September 1999, 36 patients underwent primary FTSG, and the results of this primary FTSG group were compared with 124 patients who were treated with split-thickness skin graft (STSG; 79/124; 63.7%) or by conservative management (45/124; 36.3%), and readmitted for the correction of hand deformities between September 1995 and September 1999. In the primary FTSG group, 11.1% (4/36) of mild web contractures and 5.5% (2/36) of finger joint contractures were documented, and these did not require the reconstructive procedure during a follow-up period of 8.8 +/- 4.8 months. In 124 patients of the primary STSG or conservative group, the mean time interval to reoperation was 8.9 +/- 4.0 months and all patients received FTSG for correction of late hand deformities. In a retrospective study of the primary STSG group, 42 of 53 patients (79.2%) received reconstructive procedure during a 5-year follow-up period. In this report, we introduce the nature of steam burn caused by electric rice-cooker and propose that primary FTSG may be a reliable method for the treatment of this more severe type of acute burn in pediatric patients.
11228433	The ongoing international efforts of the Rice Genomic Sequencing Project have already generated a large amount of sequence data. The next important challenge will be to construct saturation mutant lines for the functional analysis of all of the genes revealed by this effort in the context of the rice plant as a whole. Recently, the endogenous retrotransposon Tos17 has been shown to be an efficient insertional mutagen. Considering the ease of mutagenesis with Tos17 and its multiple-copy nature, saturation mutagenesis with this retrotransposon should be feasible in rice. Ongoing reverse-genetics studies, such as the PCR-screening of mutants and cataloguing of mutants by sequencing Tos17-insertion sites, as well as traditional forward-genetics studies, have clearly demonstrated that the Tos17 system can significantly contribute to the functional genomics of rice.
11229927	Rice straw is a major substrate for the production of methane, a greenhouse gas, in flooded rice fields. The bacterial community degrading rice straw under anoxic conditions was investigated with molecular methods. Rice straw was incubated in paddy soil anaerobically for 71 days. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of the amplified bacterial 16S rRNA genes showed that the composition of the bacterial community changed during the first 15 days but then was stable until the end of incubation. Fifteen DGGE bands with different signal intensities were excised, cloned, and sequenced. In addition, DNA was extracted from straw incubated for 1 and 29 days and the bacterial 16S rRNA genes were amplified and cloned. From these clone libraries 16 clones with different electrophoretic mobilities on a DGGE gel were sequenced. From a total of 31 clones, 20 belonged to different phylogenetic clusters of the clostridia, i.e., clostridial clusters I (14 clones), III (1 clone), IV (1 clone), and XIVa (4 clones). One clone fell also within the clostridia but could not be affiliated to one of the clostridial clusters. Ten clones grouped closely with the genera Bacillus (3 clones), Nitrosospira (1 clone), Fluoribacter (1 clones), and Acidobacterium (2 clones) and with clone sequences previously obtained from rice field soil (3 clones). The relative abundances of various phylogenetic groups in the rice straw-colonizing community were determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Bacteria were detached from the incubated rice straw with an efficiency of about 80 to 90%, as determined by dot blot hybridization of 16S rRNA in extract and residue. The number of active (i.e., a sufficient number of ribosomes) Bacteria detected with a general eubacterial probe (Eub338) after 8 days of incubation was 61% of the total cell counts. This percentage decreased to 17% after 29 days of incubation. Most (55%) of the active cells on day 8 belonged to the genus Clostridium, mainly to clostridial clusters I (24%), III (6%), and XIVa (24%). An additional 5% belonged to the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium cluster of the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides phylum, 4% belonged to the alpha, beta, and gamma Proteobacteria, and 1.3% belonged to the Bacillus subbranch of the gram-positive bacteria with a low G+C content. The results show that the bacterial community colonizing and decomposing rice straw developed during the first 15 days of incubation and was dominated by members of different clostridial clusters, especially clusters I, III, and XIVa.
11230567	The chloroplastic NADP-malic enzyme (NADP-ME) is a key enzyme of the C4 photosynthesis pathway in NADP-ME type C4 plants such as maize. To express the chloroplastic NADP-ME in leaves of a C3 plant, rice, full-length cDNAs encoding the rice C3-specific isoform and the maize C4-specific isoform of the enzyme were expressed under the control of the rice CAB: promoter. Transformants carrying the rice cDNA showed the NADP-ME activities in the leaves less than several-fold that of non-transformants, while those carrying the maize cDNA showed activities up to 30-fold that of non-transformants or about 60% of the NADP-ME activity of maize leaves. These results indicate that expression of the rice C3-specific NADP-ME is suppressed at co- and/or post-transcriptional levels by some regulation mechanisms intrinsic to rice, while that of the foreign C4-specific isoform can escape from such suppression. The accumulation of the maize C4-specific NADP-ME led to bleaching of leaf color and growth hindrance in rice plants under natural light. These deteriorative effects resulted from enhanced photoinhibition of photosynthesis due to an increase in the level of NADPH inside the chloroplast by the action of the maize enzyme.
11230574	RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) activity was detected in the crude microsomal fraction of rice cultured cells that contain a 14 kbp double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). RdRp activity is maximal in the presence of all four nucleotide triphosphates and Mg2+ ion and is resistant to inhibitors of DNA-dependent RNA polymerases (actinomycin D and alpha-amanitin). RdRp activity increases approximately 2.5-fold in the presence of 0.5% deoxycholate. Treatment of purified microsomal fraction with proteinase K plus deoxycholate suggests that the RdRp enzyme complex with its own 14 kb RNA template is located in vesicles. The RdRp enzyme complex was solubilized with Nonidet P-40 and purified by glycerol gradient centrifugation, then exogenous RNA templates were added. Results indicate that exogenous dsRNA reduces RNA synthesis from the endogenous 14 kb RNA template.
11231520
11231521
11231894	We surveyed the molecular evolutionary characteristics of 25 plant gene families, with the goal of better understanding general processes in plant gene family evolution. The survey was based on 247 GenBank sequences representing four grass species (maize, rice, wheat, and barley). For each gene family, orthology and paralogy relationships were uncertain. Recognizing this uncertainty, we characterized the molecular evolution of each gene family in four ways. First, we calculated the ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous substitutions (d(N)/d(S)) both on branches of gene phylogenies and across codons. Our results indicated that the d(N)/d(S) ratio was statistically heterogeneous across branches in 17 of 25 (68%) gene families. The vast majority of d(N)/d(S) estimates were <1.0, suggestive of selective constraint on amino acid replacements, and no estimates were >1.0, either across phylogenetic lineages or across codons. Second, we tested separately for nonsynonymous and synonymous molecular clocks. Sixty-eight percent of gene families rejected a nonsynonymous molecular clock, and 52% of gene families rejected a synonymous molecular clock. Thus, most gene families in this study deviated from clock-like evolution at either synonymous or nonsynonymous sites. Third, we calculated the effective number of codons and the proportion of G+C synonymous sites for each sequence in each gene family. One or both quantities vary significantly within 18 of 25 gene families. Finally, we tested for gene conversion, and only six gene families provided evidence of gene conversion events. Altogether, evolution for these 25 gene families is marked by selective constraint that varies among gene family members, a lack of molecular clock at both synonymous and nonsynonymous sites, and substantial variation in codon usage.
11233087	Transgenic approach offers an attractive alternative to conventional techniques for the genetic improvement of Basmati rice because they enable the introduction of one or more genes into a leading cultivar without affecting its genetic background. During the last ten years, a rapid progress has been made towards the development of transformation methods in rice. Several transformation methods including Agrobacterium, biolistic, and DNA uptake by protoplasts, have been employed to produce transgenic rice. An array of useful genes is now available and many of these have already been transferred in rice to improve the resistance against biotic and abiotic stresses. In Basmati rice, a beginning has already been made regarding the development of tissue culture protocols, transformation methods and production of useful transgenic plants. The application and future prospects of transformation technology to engineer the resistance against insect pests (stem borer, leaf folder, brown plant hopper, gall midge), fungal diseases (blast, bakanae/foot, rot), bacterial diseases (bacterial leaf blight, sheath blight), abiotic stresses (salinity and drought) and improved nutritional quality (accumulation of provitamin A and essential amino acids in endosperm) in Basmati rice, have been addressed.
11233090	Primary regenerants (1190) of a tall traditional salt tolerant rice cultivar pokkali were produced through in vitro culture from mature seed derived calli of fourth subculture. Out of 35000 SC2 regenerants, 26 promising lines with superior agronomic traits were chosen initially for evaluation. SC3 and SC4 generations were stringently evaluated under hydroponics with excess salt stress as well as under field conditions across two growing seasons in Bay Islands. A set of 10 promising somaclones was further evaluated at SC5 and SC6 of which BTS 2, BTS 13, BTS 18 and BTS 24 were found promising. In SC7 and SC8 yield trials in research farm, BTS 24 was found to produce a mean yield of 36.3 and 45.9 q ha-1 under saline and normal soil conditions, respectively. Somaclones varied significantly from the parent with respect to yield and yield attributes. Grain quality and biochemical parameters of all elite somaclones were different from the parent. However, somaclones did not deviate much from their parent in respect of disease and insect pest resistance pattern.
11233091	Effect of different auxins, namely, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and indole acetic acid (IAA) and Azospirillum brasilense bioinoculation on the enhancement of polygalacturonase (PG) activity in rice roots during para nodulation and endorhizosphere colonization of Azospirillum was studied under in vitro condition. It was observed that Azospirillum bioinoculation could augment PG activity of rice roots to a lesser extent without any root morphogenesis whereas auxin application together with Azospirillum bioinoculation enhanced PG activity of rice roots to a higher level which resulted in better root morphogenesis (para nodule) and endorhizosphere colonisation of A. brasilense. Among the three auxins tested, 2,4-D, even at lower concentration (0.5 ppm) enhanced the rice root PG activity, root morphogenesis and endorhizosphere colonization of Azospirillum while it was 2.0 ppm with NAA and variable with IAA. It is concluded that there is a positive correlation existing among PG activity, degree of root morphogenesis and endorhizosphere colonization of Azospirillum brasilense in rice roots and the degree of correlation is determined by the chemical composition, concentration and mode of action of the auxin utilised.
11233125	Two transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) lines, KMD1 and KMD2 at the R4 generation, transformed with a synthetic cry1Ab gene from Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner, were first evaluated for stem borer resistance in the field during the rice growing season of 1998 in two areas of Zhejiang Province, China. Both KMD1 and KMD2 were highly resistant to the stem borers Chilo suppressalis (Walker) and Scirpophaga incertulas (Walker), and were completely undamaged during the whole rice growing season. In contrast, damage to the plants of the untransformed parental control (Xiushui 11) was in the form of deadhearts or whiteheads. Under natural infestation by the C. suppressalis, the damage to control plants reached a peak of 88.7% of plants and 20.1% of tillers encountered with deadhearts. Under artificial and natural infestation of neonate striped stem borers at the vegetative stage and booting stage, 100% of plants and 25.6% of tillers, 78.9% of plants and 15.6% of productive tillers among artificially infested control plants were observed with the symptom of deadhearts and whiteheads, respectively. Damage to the control plants from artificial infestation by the S. incertulas reached a peak of 97.0% of plants and 22.9% of tillers damaged. The field research indicated that both KMD1 and KMD2 show great potential for protecting rice from attack by these two stem borers.
11233255	A BAC library for IRBB56, an accession pyramiding Xa4, xa5 and xa13 three bacterial blight resistance genes, was constructed. The library contains 55,296 clones with an average insert size of 132 kb. Based on a haploid genome size of 450 Mb, the coverage of the library was about 14 genome equivalents that make it one of the most comprehensive BAC libraries available in rice and provide 99.99% possibility to isolate any interested rice genes or sequences in the library. To determine the representation of organelle DNA homologues in the library, the library was screened with three different chloroplast genes and four mitochondrial genes, respectively. Results from this screening showed that less than 1% of clones in the library contain organelle genomic DNA homologues. Then, DNA markers on three different chromosomes linked to Xa4, xa5, and xa13, and a PCR fragment of rice UROD gene, were used to screen the library resulting in a range of 11-106 hits that will promote the isolation of these genes. The deep coverage and the large insert size of the library will facilitate physical mapping, isolation, and cloning of rice genes.
11233256	In a population consisting of 227 test-crosses of Zhenshan 97A x (Zhenshan 97B x Milyang 46) F6, a linkage map of 115 RFLP markers was constructed and employed to detect QTL for rice CMS-WA (wild abortive cytoplasmic male sterility) fertility restoration. One QTL having major effect, qRf-10, and 3 QTL having minor effects, qRf-1, qRf-7 and qRf-11, were detected. The four genes mainly acted additively with each other, but epistasis was also evident. Two minor QTL, qRf-1 and qRf-11, were significantly interacted with the major gene qRf-10. It was also found that interaction effects among minor QTL varied greatly depending on whether qRf-10 was present. Two other QTL, qSF-1 and qSF-7, were detected, which did not display any effects on fertility restoration. Instead, they showed effects for increasing SF when qRf-10 was present.
11233257	QTLs with epistatic effects and environmental interaction effects for final height of rice were studied by mixed-model based QTL mapping with a doubled haploid population from IR64/Azucena in four environments. The results demonstrated the importance of epistasis as a genetic basis of the quantitative traits and also revealed several important features of this phenomenon. In the results, 100 per cent of QTLs were involved in epistasis, of which 64 per cent were found with significant additive effects. This might mean that the usual estimates of the QTL additive effects could be confounded by epistatic interactions and result in biased estimation unless epistatic effect is separated. The other 36 per cent did not have any significant additive effects of their own but were involved in 48 per cent of the identified epistatic interactions. Such loci might play the role of modifying agents that tend to activate other loci or modify the action of other loci. The other features of epistasis include as follows: it was fairly common for the same locus to get involved in interactions with more than one locus; the QTLs with relatively high magnitude of effects might also be involved in epistasis; and epistasis was sensitive to environmental interactions for their expression. QTL x environment (QE) interaction effects were detected more often than QTL main effects for plant height behavior, as might indicate that gene expression could be greatly affected by environments.
11233258	Phosphate is a major constraint to crop production, and phosphate uptake in plant is mainly by high-affinity phosphate transporter under phosphate deficiency condition. Using RT-PCR, a 1,178 bp phosphate transporter gene fragment OjPT1 was cloned from roots of Jingxi17 (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japanica) supplied with no phosphate. The comparison of this sequence with ones in GenBank indicated that it shared about 70% similarity at amino acid level with other phosphate transporters in higher plants, such as Arabidopsis thaliana, potate, tamato, Medicago truncatula and Catharanthus roseus, and high similarity with phosphate transporters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Neurospora crassa. RT-PCR assay showed that the OjPT1 transcripts were induced under phosphate deficiency condition. This gene fragment OjPT1 has been deposited in GenBank (accession No. AF249619).
11234194	Thirty-three adult Damascus does (29 +/- 1.1 kg BW) were fed 0.6 kg per head per day of a concentrate diet plus ad libitum rice straw (Oryza sativa, control, R), or green acacia (Acacia saligna, A) or berseem clover hay (Trifolium alexandrinum, B). All treatment groups had free access to underground saline water containing 3600 ppm TDS. The DM intake was lower (p < 0.05) for the R group but did not differ between the other two groups. The DM intake of acacia was 0.64 kg per head per day (1.98% BW) during pregnancy and 0.93 kg per head per day (2.95% BW) during lactation. The drinking water differed (p < 0.05) between the three dietary treatments; group B had the highest mean intake and group A had the lowest. The percentage kidding and the litter weight at birth did not differ significantly between the groups. However, the number of kids weaned/doe kidding and the weight of the kids weaned/doe kidding were significantly higher for group B. The mean body weight of the kids at birth and at weaning were significantly lower for group R. The total milk yield over 10 weeks and the milk composition (total solids, fat and protein percentages) were significantly different between the three groups; group B having the highest means and group R the lowest. These results suggest that supplemental feeding is required to enhance the productivity of goats in arid or semi-arid environments and Acacia saligna should not be used fresh in excessive quantities for extended periods.
11237290	Some of the major factors influencing ammonia volatilisation in a rice wheat rotation system were studied. A continuous airflow enclosure method was used to measure NH3 volatilisation in a field experiment at an agricultural college in Jiangsu Province. The five treatments comprised application rates of 0, 100, 200 or 300 kg N ha(-1) as urea, per growing season with rice straw amendment when wheat was sown, and 200 kg N ha(-1) without rice straw amendment. There were three replicates in a randomised block design. Ammonia volatilisation was measured immediately after urea application in the three consecutive years 1995 to 1997. The results show that N losses through NH3 volatilisation accounted for 4-19% of N applied during the wheat growing season and for 5-11% during the rice growing season. Ammonia volatilisation was affected significantly by soil moisture and temperature before and after fertiliser application during the wheat growing season. The ratio of volatilised NH3-N to applied N after urea application during the rice growing season was as follows: top-dressing at the onset of tillering > top-dressing at the start of the booting stage > basal fertilization. The results also show that the amount of N lost through NH3 volatilisation increased with increasing N application rate, but the ratio to applied N was not affected significantly by N application rate. Amendment with rice straw had no significant effect on NH3 volatilisation.
11237300	A long-term randomised block field experiment was established in 1997 to study the dynamics of total P and dissolved P in the surface waters of rice fields receiving two application rates of fertiliser P and one rate of combined fertiliser and manure P. Preliminary results from the first two crops show that concentrations of both total P and dissolved P in the surface waters increased significantly following P application, especially during the first 2 weeks after application. P concentrations subsequently declined sharply within about 10 days, then declined steadily and remained almost constant from about 1 month after application. The initial increase in P concentration of surface waters was higher with increasing rate of fertiliser P, and the P concentration at the highest fertiliser rate peaked within about 1 week of application. The elevated P concentrations following fertiliser P application declined more rapidly than those following the combined application of fertiliser and manure P. When fertiliser and manure P were applied together, about 7 days later the surface water P concentrations were significantly higher than when the same rate of P (or double) was applied as fertiliser only. Disturbance of the surface soil by hand harrowing further increased the P concentrations in surface waters, with a subsequent decline to a steady value after about 1 week. Application of P fertiliser to the high P status soil in this experiment gave no crop yield response and may have increased the risk of pollution of adjacent surface waters through drainage from heavy rainfall events during the rice growing season. Therefore, fertiliser P should not be applied to such soils. If, however, fertiliser or manure P is applied, the application should be made during the dry winter to reduce P losses. Manure should be applied with particular care because of the higher risk of P losses to surface water arising from the relatively long period of high P concentrations in surface waters and the potential for greater release of P to field surface waters from the soil. Hand harrowing should also be avoided during wet weather to protect water quality.
11237510	The intake of food cadmium (Cd) in microg/day over time can increase the body burden of this element. Some human populations that consume subsistence rice-based diets low in calcium (Ca), iron (Fe), and zinc (Zn) are more susceptible to Cd poisoning than populations that consume more nutritious diets. This study determined the effects of marginal deficiencies of these essential elements on the absorption and organ retention of Cd from a natural food that contains Cd, edible sunflower kernels (Helianthus annuus L.; SFK). Weanling female rats were fed diets containing 20% SFK in a 2x2x2 factorial design with marginal and adequate amounts of Ca, Zn, and Fe. Marginal Zn (11 mg/kg) and Fe (13 mg/kg), and Cd (0.18 mg/kg) were derived solely from 20% SFK. These amounts of Fe and Zn represented 39 and 90% of the NRC requirement for the rat, respectively. The marginal dietary Ca concentration (2.5 g/kg) was one-half the NRC requirement. After 5 weeks on the experiment, rats were fed 1 g of their respective diets containing SFK extrinsically labeled with 37 kBq 109Cd, and absorption was determined by whole-body counting techniques. Rats were then killed and organs collected for 109Cd assays. No effect of treatment on weight gain was observed; however, when dietary Zn was low, feeding marginal Ca elevated Cd absorption by 50% (P<0.05) over those fed adequate Ca and Zn. Feeding marginal Fe elevated Cd absorption >2.5-fold (P<0.001) over those fed adequate Fe. In contrast, the naturally occurring Zn in SFK that provided 90% of the rat's requirement was enough to deter excessive absorption of Cd and enough to alone prevent significant elevation of organ Cd. Organ content of 109Cd and Cd followed the same general pattern as whole-body absorption. These data show that marginal nutritional deficiencies of Ca and Fe can readily enhance the body burden of Cd that comes from the diet. Also, some natural competitors of Cd, such as Zn, contained in foods can independently minimize Cd absorption.
11242470	Anthropological evidence suggests that regional differences in eating practices may be characterized by sub-ethnicity. Hakka is one sub-ethnicity who still retain a unique way of life in China. A field survey on diet and health among the Hakka people was undertaken in 1994. Approximately 200 participants were interviewed for their medical history, life-style and food habits. Blood pressure, body mass index, blood sample, 24 h urine and electrocardiogram were collected. The food samples taken from one tenth of the participants were analyzed for the ingredients in their daily meals. From this survey the prevalence of hypertension in Hakka was approximately 10 %. The sodium/potassium ratio was lower than that in Guangzhou and comparable with that in Okinawa, the island of longevity in Japan. For men, taurine level was found to be close to that in Mediterranean countries, where there is low mortality from cardiovascular diseases. For women, the taurine level was even higher, approximating that of Japanese women, who show the greatest longevity and lowest cardiac mortality worldwide. Less obesity was found in Hakka people than that in the US, Canada or Japan. These findings suggest that the following are the major reasons for these positive findings: the Hakka people maintain traditional food habits and maintain active awareness of their health; the major foods are rice, fish, vegetables and fruits; wide use of soybeans; extensive consumption of visceral organs which have rich source of trace elements. These eating practices and nutritional patterns may be beneficial factors for preventing atherosclerosis and hypertension.
11243452	A brief review is given of some biological, chemical and chemotaxonomic aspects of phytoalexin research. Emphasis is placed on the search for antifungal compounds in the plant families Leguminosae and Rosaceae, and in rice, Oryza sativa. The possible role of phytoalexins in the resistance of rice plants against the fungus Pyricularia oryzae (= Magnaporthe grisea) is discussed, and the future prospects of phytoalexin research are outlined.
11244094
11244095
11244096	Rice (Oryza sativa) is a model species for monocotyledonous plants, especially for members in the grass family. Several attributes such as small genome size, diploid nature, transformability, and establishment of genetic and molecular resources make it a tractable organism for plant biologists. With an estimated genome size of 430 Mb (Arumuganathan and Earle, 1991), it is feasible to obtain the complete genome sequence of rice using current technologies. An international effort has been established and is in the process of sequencing O. sativa spp. japonica var "Nipponbare" using a bacterial artificial chromosome/P1 artificial chromosome shotgun sequencing strategy. Annotation of the rice genome is performed using prediction-based and homology-based searches to identify genes. Annotation tools such as optimized gene prediction programs are being developed for rice to improve the quality of annotation. Resources are also being developed to leverage the rice genome sequence to partial genome projects such as expressed sequence tag projects, thereby maximizing the output from the rice genome project. To provide a low level of annotation for rice genomic sequences, we have aligned all rice bacterial artificial chromosome/P1 artificial chromosome sequences with The Institute of Genomic Research Gene Indices that are a set of nonredundant transcripts that are generated from nine public plant expressed sequence tag projects (rice, wheat, sorghum, maize, barley, Arabidopsis, tomato, potato, and barrel medic). In addition, we have used data from The Institute of Genomic Research Gene Indices and the Arabidopsis and Rice Genome Projects to identify putative orthologues and paralogues among these nine genomes.
11244097
11244099
11244106	The rice (Oryza sativa) retrotransposon Tos17 is one of a few active retrotransposons in plants and its transposition is activated by tissue culture. Here, we present the characterization of viviparous mutants of rice induced by tissue culture to demonstrate the feasibility of the use of retrotransposon Tos17 as an endogenous insertional mutagen and cloning of the tagged gene for forward genetics in unraveling the gene function. Two mutants were shown to be caused by the insertion of Tos17. Osaba1, a strong viviparous mutant with wilty phenotype, displayed low abscisic acid level and almost no further increase in its levels upon drought. The mutant is shown to be impaired in the epoxidation of zeaxanthin. On the other hand, Ostatc, a mutant with weak phenotype, exhibited the pale green phenotype and slight increase in abscisic acid levels upon drought. Deduced amino acids of the causative genes of Osaba1 and Ostatc manifested a significantly high homology with zeaxanthin epoxidase isolated from other plant species and with bacterial Sec-independent translocase TATC protein, respectively. This is the first example of transposon tagging in rice.
11244109	A large fraction of the genomes of grasses, members of the family Graminae, is composed of retrotransposons. These elements resemble animal retroviruses in their structure and possess a life cycle similar to theirs that includes transcription, translation, and integration of daughter copies. We have investigated if retrotransposons are generally transcribed in the grasses and other plants, and whether the various families of elements are translationally and integrationally active in multiple grass species. A systematic search of 7.8 x 10(5) publicly available expressed sequence tags from plants revealed widespread retrotransposon transcripts at a frequency of one in 1,000. Monocot retrotransposons found relatively more expressed sequence tags from non-source species than did those of dicots. Antibodies were raised to the capsid protein, GAG, of BARE-1, a transcribed and translated copia-like retrotransposon of barley (Hordeum vulgare). These detected immunoreactive proteins of sizes identical to those of the BARE-1 GAG and polyprotein, respectively, in other species of the tribe Triticeae as well as in oats (Avena sativa) and rice (Oryza sativa). Retrotransposon-based markers showed integrational polymorphisms for BARE-1 in different subfamilies of the Graminae. The results suggest that grasses share families of transcriptionally, translationally, and integrationally active retrotransposons, enabling a comparative and integrative approach to understanding the life cycle of retrotransposons and their impact on the genome.
11244110	Although the Mutator (Mu) system is well characterized in maize (Zea mays), very little is known about this highly mutagenic system of transposons in other grasses. Mutator is regulated by the MuDR class of elements, which encodes two genes, one of which, mudrA, has similarity to a number of bacterial transposases. Experiments in our laboratory, as well as database searches, demonstrate that mudrA sequences are ubiquitous and diverse in the grasses. In several species it is clear that multiple paralogous elements can be present in a single genome. In some species such as wheat (Triticum aestivum) and rice (Oryza sativa), mudrA-similar sequences are represented in cDNA databases, suggesting the presence of active Mu transposon systems in these species. Further, in rice and in sorghum, mudrA-like genes are flanked by long terminal inverted repeats, as well as the short host sequence direct repeats diagnostic of insertion. Thus, there is ample evidence that systems related to Mu in maize are at least potentially active in a wide variety of grasses. However, the mudrB gene, though important for Mu activity in maize, is not necessarily a component of Mu elements in other grasses.
11244113	The small genome of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench.) provides an important template for study of closely related large-genome crops such as maize (Zea mays) and sugarcane (Saccharum spp.), and is a logical complement to distantly related rice (Oryza sativa) as a "grass genome model." Using a high-density RFLP map as a framework, a robust physical map of sorghum is being assembled by integrating hybridization and fingerprint data with comparative data from related taxa such as rice and using new methods to resolve genomic duplications into locus-specific groups. By taking advantage of allelic variation revealed by heterologous probes, the positions of corresponding loci on the wheat (Triticum aestivum), rice, maize, sugarcane, and Arabidopsis genomes are being interpolated on the sorghum physical map. Bacterial artificial chromosomes for the small genome of rice are shown to close several gaps in the sorghum contigs; the emerging rice physical map and assembled sequence will further accelerate progress. An important motivation for developing genomic tools is to relate molecular level variation to phenotypic diversity. "Diversity maps," which depict the levels and patterns of variation in different gene pools, shed light on relationships of allelic diversity with chromosome organization, and suggest possible locations of genomic regions that are under selection due to major gene effects (some of which may be revealed by quantitative trait locus mapping). Both physical maps and diversity maps suggest interesting features that may be integrally related to the chromosomal context of DNA-progress in cytology promises to provide a means to elucidate such relationships. We seek to provide a detailed picture of the structure, function, and evolution of the genome of sorghum and its relatives, together with molecular tools such as locus-specific sequence-tagged site DNA markers and bacterial artificial chromosome contigs that will have enduring value for many aspects of genome analysis.
11244114	Colinearity of a large region from barley (Hordeum vulgare) chromosome 5H and rice (Oryza sativa) chromosome 3 has been demonstrated by mapping of several common restriction fragment-length polymorphism clones on both regions. One of these clones, WG644, was hybridized to rice and barley bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries to select homologous clones. One BAC from each species with the largest overlapping segment was selected by fingerprinting and blot hybridization with three additional restriction fragment-length polymorphism clones. The complete barley BAC 635P2 and a 50-kb segment of the rice BAC 36I5 were completely sequenced. A comparison of the rice and barley DNA sequences revealed the presence of four conserved regions, containing four predicted genes. The four genes are in the same orientation in rice, but the second gene is in inverted orientation in barley. The fourth gene is duplicated in tandem in barley but not in rice. Comparison of the homeologous barley and rice sequences assisted the gene identification process and helped determine individual gene structures. General gene structure (exon number, size, and location) was largely conserved between rice and barley and to a lesser extent with homologous genes in Arabidopsis. Colinearity of these four genes is not conserved in Arabidopsis compared with the two grass species. Extensive similarity was not found between the rice and barley sequences other than within the exons of the structural genes, and short stretches of homology in the promoters and 3' untranslated regions. The larger distances between the first three genes in barley compared with rice are explained by the insertion of different transposable retroelements.
11244118	Two rice (Oryza sativa) waxy mutations of the Japonica background were shown to contain approximately 20% of the fully spliced mRNA relative to the wild type. Sequencing analysis of the entire waxy genes of the two mutants revealed the presence of premature translation termination codons in exon 2 and exon 7. These results indicated that the lower accumulation of fully spliced RNA in the mutants was caused by nonsense-mediated decay (NMD), which is an RNA surveillance system universally found in eukaryotes. It is interesting that levels of RNA retaining intron 1 were not changed by premature nonsense codons, suggesting that splicing may be linked with NMD in plants, as previously found in mammalian cells. Measurements of the half-lives of waxy RNAs in transfected rice protoplasts indicated that the half-life of waxy RNA with a premature nonsense codon was 3.3 times shorter than that without a premature nonsense codon. Because the wild-type waxy transcripts, which are derived from the Wx(b) gene predominantly distributed among Japonica rice, have been shown to be less efficiently spliced and their alternative splicing has been documented, we examined whether these splicing properties influenced the efficiency of NMD. However, no effects were observed. These results established that NMD occurs in rice waxy RNA containing a premature nonsense codon.
11244123	Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are found in various subcellular localizations, which suggests that this family of serine/threonine kinases may be involved in multiple signal transduction pathways. CDPKs are believed to be involved in the response of plants to low temperatures, but the precise role in the signal transduction pathway is largely unknown. Previous reports described changes in CDPKs' mRNA levels in response to cold treatment, but whether these changes are accompanied by increases in protein level and/or kinase activities is unknown. In the present study, we identify in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Don Juan) plants a 56-kD membrane-bound CDPK that is activated in response to cold treatment. Immunoblot analysis of the enzyme preparations from control and cold-treated plants showed that the kinase level was similar in both preparations. However, both kinase and autophosphorylating activities of the enzyme prepared from cold-treated plants were significantly higher than that obtained from control plants. The activation of the CDPK is detected after 12 to 18 h of cold treatment, which indicates that the kinase does not participate in the initial response to low temperature but in the adaptative process to adverse conditions. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a CDPK that is posttranscriptionally activated in response to low temperature.
11244129	A major catabolic pathway for gibberellin (GA) is initiated by 2beta-hydroxylation, a reaction catalyzed by GA 2-oxidase. We have isolated and characterized a cDNA, designated Oryza sativa GA 2-oxidase 1 (OsGA2ox1) from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Nipponbare) that encodes a GA 2-oxidase. The encoded protein, produced by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli, converted GA(1), GA(4), GA(9), GA(20), and GA(44) to the corresponding 2beta-hydroxylated products GA(8), GA(34), GA(51), GA(29), and GA(98), respectively. Ectopic expression of the OsGA2ox1 cDNA in transgenic rice inhibited stem elongation and the development of reproductive organs. These transgenic plants were deficient in endogenous GA(1). These results indicate that OsGA2ox1 encodes a GA 2-oxidase, which is functional not only in vitro but also in vivo. OsGA2ox1 was expressed in shoot apex and roots but not in leaves and stems. In situ hybridization analysis revealed that OsGA2ox1 mRNA was localized in a ring at the basal region of leaf primordia and young leaves. This ring-shaped expression around the shoot apex was drastically decreased after the phase transition from vegetative to reproductive growth. It was absent in the floral meristem, but it was still present in the lateral meristem that remained in the vegetative phase. These observations suggest that OsGA2ox1 controls the level of bioactive GAs in the shoot apical meristem; therefore, reduction in its expression may contribute to the early development of the inflorescence meristem.
11245217	The Waxy (Wx) gene controls amylose synthesis in rice (Oryza sativa) and its expression is regulated organ-specifically. The Wx gene is expressed in the endosperm and pollen but not in other organs. In order to know whether Wx gene regulation is the same in the endosperm and pollen, we compared expression patterns of the rice Wx gene in these two organs by immunoblot analysis. We focused on the allelic differences (Wxa and Wxb), cool temperature response and effects of the mutation at the du loci. The results obtained are as follows. First, the quantitative regulation depending on two alleles, Wxa and Wxb, was common to both organs; Wx protein levels from the Wxa allele were about 10-fold higher than those from the Wxb allele in the pollen as well as in the endosperm. Second, in both the endosperm and pollen, expression of the Wxb gene, but not the Wxa gene, was enhanced in response to cool temperature. In contrast to these two types of regulation, analysis of two du mutants, 2035 (du1) and 76-3 (du2), revealed that the pattern of reduction in Wx protein levels in the pollen was distinct from that in the endosperm, suggesting that functions of the two du+ genes differ in these two organs.
11245678	Brain injury in newborns can cause deficits in motor and sensory function. In most models of neonatal brain injury, thalamic damage often occurs. Using the Rice-Vannucci model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury, we have shown that neuronal degeneration in somatosensory thalamus is delayed in onset (approximately 24 hr) compared with cortical and striatal injury and exhibits prominent structural features of apoptosis. In the present study, we examined whether cell death in the thalamus has molecular features of apoptosis. Fas death receptor protein expression increased rapidly after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia, in concert with cleavage of procaspase 8 to its active form. Concurrently, the levels of Bax in mitochondrial-enriched cell fractions increase, and cytochrome c accumulates in the soluble fraction. Mitochondria accumulate in a perinuclear distribution by 6 hr after hypoxia-ischemia. Cytochrome oxidase subunit 1 protein levels also increase at 6 hr after hypoxia-ischemia. Increased levels of Fas death receptor, Bax, and cytochrome c, activation of caspase 8, and abnormalities in mitochondria in the thalamus significantly precede the activation of caspase 3 and the appearance of neuronal apoptosis at 24 hr. We conclude that the delayed neurodegeneration in neonatal rat ventral basal thalamus after hypoxic-ischemic injury is apoptosis mediated by death receptor activation.
11247601	A 2225 bp cDNA, designated RPA1, was isolated from an Oryza sativa cDNA library. Analysis revealed a 1761 bp coding sequence with 15 non-identical repeat units. The ORF encoded the A regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A-A) as ascertained by complementation of the yeast tpd3 mutant defective in this gene. The corresponding genomic DNA from a rice genome BAC library revealed that the gene contains eleven introns. The rice genome contains only a single copy of this gene as judged by Southern blot analysis. The PP2A protein is highly conserved in nature; the rice protein shows 88% amino acid identity with its counterparts in Arabidopsis or Nicotiana tabacum.
11247604	We investigated the CpG methylation status of the sequence CCGG in the rice genome by using methylation-sensitive AFLP and subsequent Southern analyses with the isolated AFLP fragments as probes. CpGs located in single- or low-copy-sequence regions could be grouped into two classes on the basis of their methylation status: methylation status at the class 1 CpG sites was conserved among genetically diverse rice cultivars, whereas cultivar-specific differential methylation was frequently detected among the cultivars at the class 2 CpG sites. The frequency of occurrence of methylation polymorphism between a pair of cultivars was not related to the genetic distance between the two. Through mapping, five class 2 CpG sites were localized on different chromosomes and were not clustered together in the genome. Segregation analysis of the cultivar-specific methylations with their target sites indicated that the differential methylation was stably inherited in a Mendelian fashion over 6 generations, although alterations in the methylation status at the class 2 CpG sites were observed with a low frequency.
11247742	The loach Misgurnus anguillicaudatus inhabits rice fields in Southern China. It encounters drought during summer and ammonia loading during agricultural fertilization. In the laboratory, aerial exposure led to decreases in its ammonia and urea excretion. Ammonia accumulated to very high levels in the muscle and liver. Urea synthesis through the ornithine-urea cycle was not involved in ammonia detoxification in M. anguillicaudatus. However, M. anguillicaudatus was capable of partial amino acid catabolism leading to the accumulation of alanine in the first 24 h of aerial exposure. This was apparently coupled to a possible decrease in protein/amino acid catabolism. These are not detoxification mechanisms but mechanisms that avoid internal fouling by ammonia. Misgurnus anguillicaudatus was also capable of detoxifying internally produced ammonia in part to glutamine, which appears to be an important adaptation after 24 h of aerial exposure. However, unlike the case of the marble goby (Oxyeleotris marmoratus), there was no alteration to the kinetic properties of the hepatic glutamine synthetase. During dry seasons, M. anguillicaudatus moves actively on land until it encounters soft mud in which it can bury itself through several strong wriggling actions of the body. Hence, it is possible that M. anguillicaudatus uses partial amino acid catabolism to fuel its short period of activities on land and switches to the formation of glutamine to detoxify internally produced ammonia when it remains relatively inactive in the mud.
11247851	To examine the interactions between age and photoperiod on reproduction and spleen weights, we exposed adult male and female rice rats of various ages to photoperiods of 16:8-h light-dark photoperiods (16L:8D) or 12L:12D. After 10 wk, animals were killed and the following data were recorded: weights of testes, seminal vesicles, uterus, ovaries, body, and spleen and, in addition, vaginal patency. Young adult males displayed a greater degree of testicular and seminal vesicle regression in short photoperiods than did older males; the testes of most older males did not regress in response to short photoperiods. Spleen weight was unresponsive to short photoperiods in all males, but was affected by age. Females, however, exhibited reproductive organ regression and decreased vaginal patency in response to short photoperiods at all ages examined. Body weights were affected by photoperiod in young females, and, as in males, photoperiod had no effect on spleen weights. These data suggest that the reproductive response to photoperiod in adult male rice rats declines with age, whereas in adult females it does not.
11248879	To describe 10 year trends and individual changes in food habits of Danish men and women in relation to dietary recommendations using data from both a cohort and a repeated cross-sectional study, and to examine whether the two sampling methods give similar results. Baseline data were collected in 1982-1984 and respectively repeated measurements for cohort and cross-sectional changes in food habits. The County of Copenhagen, Denmark. Men and women aged 30-70y in 1982-1984, 1986-1988 and 1992-1994. The trend analyses included 3785 subjects for cohort and 7316 for cross-sectional study, respectively. Longitudinal changes were studied among 2430 individuals with food data from all three examinations. Food intakes were estimated using a short food frequency questionnaire. During the study period both men and women reported a decreased intake frequency of animal and vegetable fats, milk, eggs, meat products, white bread and potatoes, while they had increased intakes of low-fat margarine, fruit, raw vegetables, coarse breads, oatmeal, pasta, rice, cakes and candy. In both men and women the decrease in the consumption frequency of, white bread and potatoes, and the increase in pasta, and candy, were higher in the younger than in the older age group. In contrast, the increased consumption frequency of coarse breads, and oatmeal were most pronounced in the older age groups. For most foods the cohort and the repeated cross-sectional surveys gave similar results. From 1982 through 1994 the food habits of middle-aged Danish men and women changed in the direction of a more healthy diet as recommended by health authorities. With the limitation of a possible reporting bias both the cohort and repeated cross-sectional study designs may be used for monitoring changes in food intake.
11249029	We designed a PCR assay specific for the 16S rRNA genes of members of the class Actinobacteria, and created a clone library using the amplification product of total community DNA extracted from anoxic Italian rice field soil. Eighteen out of 27 randomly sequenced clones were affiliated with Actinobacteria, i.e. Frankineae, Corynebacterineae, Micrococcineae, the bacterium candidatus "Microthrix parvicella" and a novel taxonomically undefined cluster.
11250078	Many of the subunits of cytochrome c oxidase (COX) in the mitochondria of higher plants are encoded by nuclear genes. These genes are less characterized compared to mitochondrial-encoded genes. We previously isolated a cDNA encoding COX6b (designated OsCOX6b1 in this study) from the rice nuclear genome and analyzed its expression. The deduced protein had an extended N-terminus compared with human and yeast COX6b proteins. In this study, we identified another COX6b gene (OsCOX6b2) in rice and revealed that it was actually expressed. The deduced protein of this gene did not have an extended N-terminus and had about the same size as the human and yeast proteins. Genomic Southern hybridization analysis revealed that there was at least one OsCOX6b-homologus sequences in the rice genome other than OsCOX6b1 and OsCOX6b2. Furthermore, we identified three COX6b genes in a dicotyledonous plant, Arabidopsis thaliana. One of these genes (AtCOX6b1) was relatively long, with a length similar to that of OsCOX6b1, and the other two (AtCOX6b2 and AtCOX6b3) were shorter, with lengths similar to the length of OsCOX6b2. Genomic Southern hybridization analysis indicated there were no additional COX6b genes in the Arabidopsis genome. The coding regions of OsCOX6b1 and AtCOX6b1 were separated by four introns and those of OsCOX6b2, AtCOX6b2 and AtCOX6b3 were separated by three introns. A Northern hybridization analysis showed that OsCOX6b1, AtCOX6b1 and AtCOX6b3 were expressed in all organs examined, although with some differences in the amount of expression among the organs. OsCOX6b2 and AtCOX6b2 were strongly expressed in roots but most of the transcripts of AtCOX6b2 were degraded. The evolution of COX6b genes from rice and Arabidopsis is discussed.
11251094	To elucidate phytochrome A (phyA) function in rice, we screened a large population of retrotransposon (Tos17) insertional mutants by polymerase chain reaction and isolated three independent phyA mutant lines. Sequencing of the Tos17 insertion sites confirmed that the Tos17s interrupted exons of PHYA genes in these mutant lines. Moreover, the phyA polypeptides were not immunochemically detectable in these phyA mutants. The seedlings of phyA mutants grown in continuous far-red light showed essentially the same phenotype as dark-grown seedlings, indicating the insensitivity of phyA mutants to far-red light. The etiolated seedlings of phyA mutants also were insensitive to a pulse of far-red light or very low fluence red light. In contrast, phyA mutants were morphologically indistinguishable from wild type under continuous red light. Therefore, rice phyA controls photomorphogenesis in two distinct modes of photoperception--far-red light-dependent high irradiance response and very low fluence response--and such function seems to be unique and restricted to the deetiolation process. Interestingly, continuous far-red light induced the expression of CAB and RBCS genes in rice phyA seedlings, suggesting the existence of a photoreceptor(s) other than phyA that can perceive continuous far-red light in the etiolated seedlings.
11251832	The soil-borne vascular wilt fungus Fusarium oxysporum infects a wide variety of plant species by directly penetrating roots, invading the cortex and colonizing the vascular tissue. We have identified fmk1, encoding a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) of F. oxysporum that belongs to the yeast and fungal extracellular signal-regulated kinase (YERK1) subfamily. Targeted mutants of F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici carrying an inactivated copy of fmk1 have lost pathogenicity on tomato plants but show normal vegetative growth and conidiation in culture. Colonies of the fmk1 mutants are easily wettable, and hyphae are impaired in breaching the liquid-air interface, suggesting defects in surface hydrophobicity. Fmk1 mutants also show reduced invasive growth on tomato fruit tissue and drastically reduced transcript levels of pl1 encoding the cell wall-degrading enzyme pectate lyase. Conidia of the mutants germinating in the tomato rhizosphere fail to differentiate penetration hyphae, resulting in greatly impaired root attachment. The orthologous MAPK gene Pmk1 from the rice leaf pathogen Magnaporthe grisea complements invasive growth and partially restores surface hydrophobicity, root attachment and pathogenicity in an fmk1 mutant. These results demonstrate that FMK1 controls several key steps in the pathogenesis of F. oxysporum and suggest a fundamentally conserved role for the corresponding MAPK pathway in soil-borne and foliar plant pathogens.
11254073	To eliminate unnecessary feeding trials, a mechanistic model of sugarcane digestion was used in the search for suitable supplements to improve milk production. Milk production simulated by the model was compared with data observed in four feeding trials published in the tropical literature where crossbred dairy cows were fed sugarcane/urea diets with different types of supplements. The predicted effects of the supplements on the ruminal microbial population, concentrations of ammonia and volatile fatty acids were also compared with the published results in one experiment. The model indicated the nutrient most limiting milk production for the different feeding situations. The addtion of Leucaena to the basal sugarcane/urea improved the availability of amino acids and long-chain fatty acids, with energy becoming the limiting factor. Supplementation with rice bran increased the availability of energy and long-chain fatty acids, but amino acids then became the limiting factor. Supplementation with both Leucaena and rice bran further improved the milk yield, but availability of energy now limited milk production. Supplementation with Leucaena increased milk production more than supplementation with king grass. The main reason for this increase was increased amino acid absorption due to increased microbial outflow. In all feeding situations, the average difference between the predicted milk production and that observed experimentally was 0.57 kg/d (ranging from 0.08 to 1 kg/d).
11261489	The present study deals with the isolation of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) from rice (variety NIAB IRRI-9) and the beneficial effects of these inoculants on two Basmati rice varieties. Nitrogen-fixing activity (acetylene-reduction activity) was detected in the roots and submerged shoots of field-grown rice variety NIAB IRRI-9. Estimation of the population size of diazotrophic bacteria by ARA-based MPN (acetylene reduction assay-based most probable number) in roots and shoots indicated about 10(5)-10(6) counts/g dry weight at panicle initiation and grain filling stages. Four bacterial isolates from rice roots and shoots were obtained in pure culture which produced phytohormone indoleacetic acid (IAA) in the growth medium. Among these, three isolates S1, S4, and R3 reduced acetylene to ethylene in nitrogen-free semi-solid medium. Morphological and physiological characteristics of the isolates indicated that three nitrogen-fixing isolates S1, S4, and R3 belonged to the genus Enterobacter, while the non-fixing isolate R8 belonged to the genus Aeromonas. 16S rRNA sequence of one isolate from root (R8) and one isolate from shoot (S1) was obtained which confirmed identification of the isolates as Aeromonas veronii and Enterobacter cloacae, respectively. The 1517-nucleotide-long sequence of the isolate R8 showed 99% similarity with Aeromonas veronii (accession No. AF099023) while partial 16S rRNA sequence (two stretches of total 1271 nucleotide length) of S1 showed 97% similarity with the sequence of Enterobacter cloacae (accession No. AJ251469). The seedlings of two rice varieties Basmati 385 and Super Basmati were inoculated with the four bacterial isolates from rice and one Azospirillum brasilense strain Wb3, which was isolated from wheat. In the rice variety Basmati 385, maximum increase in root area and plant biomass was obtained in plants inoculated with Enterobacter S1 and Azospirillum Wb3, whereas in the rice variety Super Basmati, inoculation with Enterobacter R3 resulted in maximum increase of root area and plant biomass. Nitrogen fixation was quantified by using 15N isotopic dilution method. Maximum fixation was observed in Basmati 385 with the inoculants Azospirillum Wb3 and Enterobacter S1 where nearly 46% and 41% of the nitrogen was derived from atmosphere (%Ndfa), respectively. In general, higher nitrogen fixation was observed in variety Basmati 385 than in Super Basmati, and different bacterial strains were found more effective as inoculants for the rice varieties Basmati 385 and Super Basmati.
11261560	Some of the commonly used feed ingredients for poultry (corn, sorghum, finger millet, deoiled ricebran, soybean meal, peanut meal, sunflower meal, and rapeseed meal) were screened for pentosans, cellulose, pectin, and total nonstarch polysaccharides. The ingredient in vitro digestibilities by enzymes were evaluated. Cereal samples screened contained mainly pentosans. Pectin content was rich in oilseed meals. Sunflower meal, soybean meal, deoiled rice bran, and a broiler starter diet were subjected to a two-stage in vitro digestion assay with three different enzyme mixtures viz., Enzyme-I (xylanase + cellulase from Trichoderma viridae), Enzyme-II (xylanase + cellulase + beta-glucanase from Huminicola insolens), and Enzyme-III (xylanase + cellulase + pectinase + beta-glucanase from Aspergillus aculeatus) by incubating 0.1 g of the sample with 3 mL of a pepsin-HCl mixture (2,000 U pepsin/mL of 0.1N HCl) for 45 min to simulate the peptic phase of bird digestion. A pancreatin-NaHCO3 mixture (2 mg pancreatin/mL of 1 M NaHCO3) was used for 2 h at 40 C to simulate the pancreatic phase. Digestibility was assessed by measuring the relative viscosity of the digesta supernatent and the total sugars released. Enzyme-I produced the least relative viscosity and highest total sugars in sunflower meal, deoiled rice bran, and broiler starter diet, whereas Enzyme-III was very effective in soybean meal subjected to in vitro digestion. The assay was a convenient and rapid method of screening for effective and stable enzymes.
11262016	Natural levels of dimethyl sulfide (DMS) in rough rice and its products (polished rice, brown rice, and broken rice) were determined by a gas chromatograph equipped with a flame photometric detector and sulfur mode, after extraction with 25% KBr solution in a sealed system. DMS was found to occur naturally in nine newly harvested and stored Australian varieties of rough rice and its products and decreased during storage after harvesting. Natural levels of DMS in rough rice and its products varied with variety, fraction, and period of storage. The order of levels of DMS was rough rice = brown rice > polished rice = broken rice. The range of values was 0.002-30 mg kg(-1) (ppm, w/w).
11262021	A three-dimensional (3D) visualization technique for the compound distribution in a rice kernel was developed. This technique is a combination of sectioning, staining, and digital image postprocessing. By using a special microtome system with adhesive tapes, a set of sequential sections of a rice kernel, which can be preserved with their own set of relative position data, was obtained. A single set of sequential sections was stained by various chemical techniques for the visualization of protein, starch, or lipid content. Each stained section was digitally captured using a CCD imaging device. As the stained areas represent areas containing dye-target complex, the distribution of each compound in the section was visualized in two dimensions. The digitally captured images of a single set of sequential sections were reconstructed to produce a 3D plotting image. As a result, the distributions of various compounds in a rice kernel could be visualized in a new 3D model.
11262027	Volatile components of uncooked Khao Dawk Mali 105 brown rice were extracted using indirect steam distillation under reduced pressure and controlled temperature in order to prevent cooking. Analysis of the fresh extract by capillary gas chromatography-mass spectrometry revealed that there were >140 volatile constituents. Among these, 70 volatiles were identified, including 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), a key aroma compound of cooked rice. Further study concentrated on an improved method for the quantification of 2AP in uncooked brown rice. The method was simplified by utilizing a solvent extraction procedure. Quantitative analysis was performed using a capillary gas chromatographic system employing a flame ionization detector with the aid of a more selective column, CP-Wax 51, for amines. This improved chromatographic system had remarkable detection sensitivity for 2AP in the rice extracts so that 2AP in an extract of only 0.5 g of uncooked Khao Dawk Mali 105 brown rice could be detected.
11262030	Aroma-active compounds from a beeflike process flavor, produced by extrusion of enzyme-hydrolyzed vegetable protein (E-HVP), were analyzed using aroma extract dilution analysis. The number of aroma-active compounds and the aroma intensity were increased by the addition of aroma precursors prior to extrusion. The most intense compound was 2-methyl-3-furanthiol having a cooked rice/vitamin-like/meaty aroma note. Several sulfur-containing furans, such as 2-methyl-3-(methylthio)furan, 2-methyl-3-(methyldithio)furan, and bis(2-methylfuryl)disulfide, were detected with high flavor dilution (FD) factors. Some pyrazines, such as 2-ethyl-3,5-dimethylpyrazine, 2,6-diethylpyrazine, and 3,5-diethyl-2-methylpyrazine, also had high FD factors. It is hypothesized that sulfur-containing amino acids and thiamin were important precursors in aroma formation in process flavor from E-HVP.
11265166	The galactose oxidase-producing fungus Dactylium dendroides was re-identified as a Fusarium species. Fungi of this genus are well known for the production of mycotoxins. Verification of growth of this fungus on rice, corn and liquid medium described for the production of galactose oxidase is provided to determine whether the fungus could produce Fusarium toxins, namely, moniliformin, fusaric acid, fumonisin, zearalenone and the trichothecenes, deoxynivalenol, 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol, fusarenone, nivalenol, diacetoxyscirpenol, neosolaniol, and toxin T-2. Under the culture conditions used, deoxynivalenol, 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol and zearalenone were detected in the fungal culture medium. The finding is consistent with the hypothesis that the fungus is in fact a Fusarium species.
11266113	Rice cDNA encoding an acidic type of pathogenesis-related protein-1 (PR-1a) was cloned and characterized. The deduced PR-1a protein consisted of 168 amino acid residues, including 24 hydrophobic signal sequences at the N-terminus. The predicted molecular mass of the PR-1a was 15,728 Da with a theoretical pI of 4.5, an indication of an acidic protein. The PR-la showed high homology to an acidic PR-1 of Zea mays (74%) and a previously identified basic type PR-1 of rice (64%). Both rice PR-1 and PR-1a genes were found to exist as small gene families through Southern blot hybridization analyses. The PR-1 mRNA was accumulated only in leaves, while the PR-1a transcript was accumulated throughout the plant at a low level. Expression of both PR-1 genes was induced by infections of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, or the bacterial leaf blight pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, and the treatment of benzo (1, 2, 3) thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-ethyl ester, H2O2, or CuSO4. The expression of both PR-1 genes was higher and more rapidly induced in an incompatible interaction than in a compatible interaction in the rice M. grisea interactions.
11266122	Quantitative trait loci (QTLs), which are associated with the ability of plant regeneration from seed derived calli, were detected using a recombinant inbred (RI) population from a cross between 'Milyang 23 (toingil)' and 'Gihobyeo (japonica)' in rice (Oryza sativa L.). A tongil type cultivar, 'Milyang 23', has a lower frequency of callus induction and plant regeneration than those of japonica 'Gihobyeo'. Transgressive segregations were observed for the callus induction rate and plant regeneration ability from seed derived calli of the RI population. An interval mapping analysis was used to identify the QTL controlling the plant regeneration ability. Two QTLs for the callus induction rate were detected on chromosomes 1 and 2, explaining the 10.9% total phenotypic variation. Four QTLs that are associated with the plant regeneration ability were located on chromosomes 2, 3, and 11, accounting for 25.7% of the total phenotypic variation.
11266211	Three virus isolates from maize with rough dwarf in different provinces in China were analyzed at the molecular level. When compared to an isolate from diseased rice plants in Hubei Province, all four isolates had identical genomic RNA electrophoretic profiles, which were composed of ten double-stranded (ds) RNAs. Full-length cDNAs of segment 10 (S10) from each of the four isolates were cloned by RT-PCR and the complete sequences were determined. Analysis of the sequences revealed that each consisted of 1801 nucleotides and contained a single open reading frame (ORF) which potentially encoded a protein with 558 amino acids. Further, the sequences showed more than 97.0% and 98.0% identity at nucleotide and amino acid levels, respectively. In addition, their identities to rice black-streaked dwarf virus S10 were significantly higher than those to maize rough dwarf virus S10. Based on these results, it is suggested that the virus which causes this maize disease in China is rice black-streaked dwarf virus.
11266579	H(2)O(2) promotes seed germination of cereal plants such as barley, wheat and rice, and several mechanisms have been proposed for its action [Naredo et al. (1998) Seed Sci. Technol. 26: 675-689]. We investigated the role of H(2)O(2) in the germination of Zinnia elegans seeds. H(2)O(2) promoted seed germination in a dose-dependent manner as did respiratory inhibitors, indicating that H(2)O(2) itself possibly promotes seed germination rather than O(2). Seed germination was promoted by removal of pericarp from seeds or by removal of ethanol-soluble compounds from the seeds with pericarp. The ethanol-soluble compounds suppressed the germination of seeds having no pericarp, and this effect was reversed by H(2)O(2). These findings indicate that oxidation of the germination inhibitor(s) present in the pericarp by H(2)O(2) promotes seed germination. Antioxidants which are derivatives of well-known germination inhibitors suppressed seed germination in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting that, to initiate seed germination, a germination inhibitor(s) should be decomposed by an oxidant such as H(2)O(2).
11269342	A mutable slender glume gene slg, which often reverts to the wild-type state, was induced by gamma-ray irradiation of seeds of the japonica rice cultivar 'Gimbozu'. The final goal was to understand whether the slender glume mutation was associated with the insertion of a transposable element, utilizing map-based cloning techniques. The RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) analysis revealed that the slg locus was located between two RFLP loci, XNpb33 and R1440, on chromosome 7 with recombination values of 3.1% and 1.0%, respectively. Using these two RFLP loci as probes, five YAC (yeast artificial chromosome) clones containing either of these two loci were selected from a YAC library. Subsequently, both end fragments of these YAC clones, amplified by the inverse PCR (IPCR) method, were used to select new YAC clones more closely located to the slg locus. After repeating such a procedure, we successfully constructed a 6-cM YAC contig, and identified four overlapping YAC clones, Y1774, Y3356, Y5124, and Y5762, covering the slg locus. The chromosomal location of the slg was narrowed down to the region with a physical distance of less than 280 kb between the right-end fragments of Y1774 and Y3356.
11269351	The RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) markers OPE15750 and OPE15300 were affected by loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in rice hybrids AMR x 'M202' and AMR x 'L202'. The markers were mapped to the same locus at or near the centromere of rice chromosome 2. The two RAPD products were cloned, sequenced, and found to have lengths of 734 bp and 297 bp, respectively. The 297-bp sequence shares a 98% homology with one end of the 734-bp sequence, accounting for the cross-hybridization previously observed between the two clones. Based on the DNA sequence of the 734-bp fragment, a pair of STS (sequence-tagged site) primers was designed and tested. Rice plants homozygous for either OPE15734 or OPE15297 all produced PCR fragments of the same length, 482 bp. However, the two PCR products were discernible by digestion with the restriction enzyme XbaI prior to gel electrophoresis. The STS product from plants homozygous for OPE15734 was cut into two fragments of 239 and 240 bp, which appeared as one single band in an agarose gel; whereas the STS product from plants homozygous for OPE15297 was not cut by XbaI and was characterized by a 482-bp band in the agarose gel. These STS primers were tested in rice hybrids and F2 progenies derived from the hybrids of AMR x 'M202' and AMR x 'L202'. Homozygosity for OPE15297 was confirmed for all F2 panicle rows derived from AMR x 'M202'. In contrast, F2 panicle rows of AMR x 'L202' exhibited two different segregation patterns (genotypes), i.e., either uniformly homozygous for the 240-bp marker (OPE15734/OPE15734) or segregating for the 482- and 240-bp markers (OPE15734/OPE15297). This STS-marker system provides a robust assay for detecting the occurrence of LOH in rice hybrid progenies.
11269353	A new YAC (yeast artificial chromosome) physical map of the 12 rice chromosomes was constructed utilizing the latest molecular linkage map. The 1439 DNA markers on the rice genetic map selected a total of 1892 YACs from a YAC library. A total of 675 distinct YACs were assigned to specific chromosomal locations. In all chromosomes, 297 YAC contigs and 142 YAC islands were formed. The total physical length of these contigs and islands was estimated to 270 Mb which corresponds to approximately 63% of the entire rice genome (430 Mb). Because the physical length of each YAC contig has been measured, we could then estimate the physical distance between genetic markers more precisely than previously. In the course of constructing the new physical map, the DNA markers mapped at 0.0-cM intervals were ordered accurately and the presence of potentially duplicated regions among the chromosomes was detected. The physical map combined with the genetic map will form the basis for elucidation of the rice genome structure, map-based cloning of agronomically important genes, and genome sequencing.
11269361	Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis and GISH (genomic in situ hybridization) were performed on euploid plants derived from crosses between Oryza sativa (2n = 24, AA) and two brown planthopper-resistant accessions of O. eichingeri (2n = 24, CC). After screening with 164 RFLP markers, 60 of the 67 euploid plants were identified as introgression lines, each carrying 1-6 small O. eichingeri segments integrated on chromosomes 1, 2, 6, or 10. In the somatic chromosome preparations of F1 hybrid, O. eichingeri chromosomes, fluorescing greenish-yellow in the sequential GISH, appeared to be longer and to contain more heterochromatin than O. sativa ones, and this karyotypic polymorphism can be used to detect some introgressed O. eichingeri segments in euploid plants. In addition, GISH identification presented direct evidence for the transfer of small segments from O. eichingeri to O. sativa chromosome(s) which were subsequently recognized according to their condensation pattern, arm ratio, and chromosome length. The present results would contribute to the molecular mapping and selection of O. eichingeri--derived brown planthopper-resistant gene and positive yield QTLs.
11269604
11273144	To study clinical profile of the newly emerged novel strain non-O1, O139 of Vibrio cholerae, in the region of Ambajogai, District Beed of Maharashtra. Out of 208 patients of acute gastroenteritis, 41 revealed to be positive for Vibrio cholerae by recommended method of stool examination. All the strains were sent to National Institute of Cholera and Infectious Diseases, Calcutta for confirmation. Out of 41 cases, 12 were of Vibrio cholerae O1, 29 Non-O1, of which nine found to be O139 strain. All patients were from 2-80 years of age with low-socioeconomic status and maximum incidence was in August (64.70%), presented with severe rice watery loose motions. Vomiting was observed in 26 (63.41%), more so in patients of O139 infection (88.88%) than four (33.33%) of O1 infection. Sweating was observed in three patients (33.33%) of O139 infection, cramps in gastrocnemis muscles in three patients (33.33%) of O139 infection and two (16.66%) of O1 infection. Signs of dehydration were mild to moderate in four patients (33.33%) of O1 infection; severe dehydration in six (66.66%), moderate in two (22.22%) and mild in one patient (11.11%) of O139 infection. While dehydration was severe in four (20%), moderate in one (5%) and mild in three patients (15%) of Non-O1 infection (excluding O139 cases). Clinical features were more severe in patients of serotype O139 than the patients of O1 and Non-O1 (excluding O139 cases). However all patients responded to intravenous fluids, oral rehydration and antibiotics (tetracycline) within 24-48 hours without any mortality. This study reflects the first emergence of Non-O1, strain O139 during the year 1997 with severe and critical clinical features in Ambajogai region causing high morbidity in the form of severe dehydration and peripheral circulatory collapse which requires early and correct diagnosis and prompt treatment.
11274124	Six closely related N2-fixing bacterial strains were isolated from surface-sterilized roots and stems of four different rice varieties. The strains were identified as Serratia marcescens by 16S rRNA gene analysis. One strain, IRBG500, chosen for further analysis showed acetylene reduction activity (ARA) only when inoculated into media containing low levels of fixed nitrogen (yeast extract). Diazotrophy of IRBG500 was confirmed by measurement of 15N2 incorporation and by sequence analysis of the PCR-amplified fragment of nifH. To examine its interaction with rice, strain IRBG500 was marked with gusA fused to a constitutive promoter, and the marked strain was inoculated onto rice seedlings under axenic conditions. At 3 days after inoculation, the roots showed blue staining, which was most intense at the points of lateral root emergence and at the root tip. At 6 days, the blue precipitate also appeared in the leaves and stems. More detailed studies using light and transmission electron microscopy combined with immunogold labeling confirmed that IRBG500 was endophytically established within roots, stems, and leaves. Large numbers of bacteria were observed within intercellular spaces, senescing root cortical cells, aerenchyma, and xylem vessels. They were not observed within intact host cells. Inoculation of IRBG500 resulted in a significant increase in root length and root dry weight but not in total N content of rice variety IR72. The inoculated plants showed ARA, but only when external carbon (e.g., malate, succinate, or sucrose) was added to the rooting medium.
11274450	Most higher plants develop severe toxicity symptoms when grown on ammonium (NH(4)(+)) as the sole nitrogen source. Recently, NH(4)(+) toxicity has been implicated as a cause of forest decline and even species extinction. Although mechanisms underlying NH(4)(+) toxicity have been extensively sought, the primary events conferring it at the cellular level are not understood. Using a high-precision positron tracing technique, we here present a cell-physiological characterization of NH(4)(+) acquisition in two major cereals, barley (Hordeum vulgare), known to be susceptible to toxicity, and rice (Oryza sativa), known for its exceptional tolerance to even high levels of NH(4)(+). We show that, at high external NH(4)(+) concentration ([NH(4)(+)](o)), barley root cells experience a breakdown in the regulation of NH(4)(+) influx, leading to the accumulation of excessive amounts of NH(4)(+) in the cytosol. Measurements of NH(4)(+) efflux, combined with a thermodynamic analysis of the transmembrane electrochemical potential for NH(4)(+), reveal that, at elevated [NH(4)(+)](o), barley cells engage a high-capacity NH(4)(+)-efflux system that supports outward NH(4)(+) fluxes against a sizable gradient. Ammonium efflux is shown to constitute as much as 80% of primary influx, resulting in a never-before-documented futile cycling of nitrogen across the plasma membrane of root cells. This futile cycling carries a high energetic cost (we record a 40% increase in root respiration) that is independent of N metabolism and is accompanied by a decline in growth. In rice, by contrast, a cellular defense strategy has evolved that is characterized by an energetically neutral, near-Nernstian, equilibration of NH(4)(+) at high [NH(4)(+)](o). Thus our study has characterized the primary events in NH(4)(+) nutrition at the cellular level that may constitute the fundamental cause of NH(4)(+) toxicity in plants.
11276181	Passive joint mobilization is commonly used by physical therapists as an intervention for acute ankle inversion sprains. A randomized controlled trial with blinded assessors was conducted to investigate the effect of a specific joint mobilization, the anteroposterior glide on the talus, on increasing pain-free dorsiflexion and 3 gait variables: stride speed (gait speed), step length, and single support time. Forty-one subjects with acute ankle inversion sprains (<72 hours) and no other injury to the lower limb entered the trial. Subjects were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups. The control group received a protocol of rest, ice, compression, and elevation (RICE). The experimental group received the anteroposterior mobilization, using a force that avoided incurring any increase in pain, in addition to the RICE protocol. Subjects in both groups were treated every second day for a maximum of 2 weeks or until the discharge criteria were met, and all subjects were given a home program of continued RICE application. Outcomes were measured before and after each treatment. The results showed that the experimental group required fewer treatment sessions than the control group to achieve full pain-free dorsiflexion. The experimental group had greater improvement in range of movement before and after each of the first 3 treatment sessions. The experimental group also had greater increases in stride speed during the first and third treatment sessions. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION Addition of a talocrural mobilization to the RICE protocol in the management of ankle inversion injuries necessitated fewer treatments to achieve pain-free dorsiflexion and to improve stride speed more than RICE alone. Improvement in step length symmetry and single support time was similar in both groups.
11276826	This paper reviews phytonutrients from rice bran that have shown promising disease-preventing and health-related benefits in experimental research studies. Candidate products studied and under investigation include: inositol and related compounds, inositol hexaphosphate (IP6 or phytate), rice oil, ferulic acid, gamma-oryzanol, plant sterols, tocotrienols and RICEO, a new rice-bran-derived product. Diseases in which preventive and/or nutraceutical effects have been detected include: cancer, hyperlipidemia, fatty liver, hypercalciuria, kidney stones, and heart disease. In addition, rice-bran products may have potential applications as nutritional ingredients in the context of their utility in functional foods.
11277622	A specific telomere was deleted in spontaneous, gain-of-virulence mutants derived from a rice pathogen of Magnaporthe grisea. Three different types of transposons, including Pot2, Mg-SINE, and a novel, 6-kb-long LTR (long terminal repeat)-type retrotransposon designated MGLR-3, were identified on this chromosomal end. The 114-bp-long telomeric repeat is immediately followed by the 3' LTR of MGLR-3. A truncated copy of Pot2 immediately flanks the 5' LTR, suggesting that this telomere was generated by a transposition event of MGLR-3 into this Pot2 element, causing the breakage of a chromosome. The subsequent addition of a telomeric repeat to the 3' LTR of MGLR-3 most probably repaired the broken end of the chromosome. Mg-SINE is located 25 bp away from the truncated Pot2 element. MGLR-3 exhibited strong homology to various gypsy-class retrotransposons, including grh and MAGGY in M. grisea. MGLR-3 is ubiquitous regardless of the host of origin.
11279451
11280007	An insertion sequence 418 bp in length was found in one member of rice retroposon p-SINE1 in Oryza glaberrima. This sequence had long terminal inverted repeats (TIRs) and is flanked by direct repeats of a 9-bp sequence at the target site, indicative that the insertion sequence is a rice transposable element, which we named Tnr8. Interestingly, each TIR sequence consisted of a unique 9-bp terminal sequence and six tandem repeats of a sequence about 30 bp in length, like the foldback transposable element first identified in Drosophila. A homology search of databases and analysis by PCR revealed that a large number of Tnr8 members with sequence variations were present in the rice genome. Some of these members were not present at given loci in several rice species with the AA genome. These findings suggest that the Tnr8 family members transposed long ago, but some appear to have mobilized after rice strains with the AA genome diverged. The Tnr8 members are thought to be involved in rearrangements of the rice genome.
11280996	Four rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutant lines lacking glutelin alpha-1 subunit were obtained by screening the progenies of fertilized egg treatment with MNU. SDS-PAGE and IEF analyses showed that the mutants without pI6.82 polypeptide in common while forming/increasing other polypeptide indicating that the mutants were controlled by structural genes. IEF analysis also suggested that the polypeptides of pI6.82 and pI8.58 derived from the same glutelin precursor. The mutants are considered to be useful material for glutelin quality improvement and for genetic regulatory mechanism study of glutelin biosynthesis.
11280997	The gene Xa4 confers dominantly resistance to rice bacterial blight, which has been finely mapped between RFLP markers G181 and L1044, and co-segregated with the resistance gene homologues sequence marker RS13. The three markers were used to screen a rice Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) library constructed from IRBB56, a Xa4-harborring indica variety, resulting in the detection of totally 128 positive clones. Of the 18 positive clones picked out by RS13, 4 and 6 clones were simultaneously detected by G181 and L1044, respectively. Based on their HindIII restriction patterns, 12 clones were selected out to construct a contig that spanned about 420 kb covering the Xa4 locus, which is a solid base for the isolation of Xa4 gene.
11281505	The study was carried out in 10 females with type 2 diabetes aged 32-60 yrs. All of them were receiving weight-maintaining diets composed of 12 per cent protein, 30 per cent fat and 58 per cent carbohydrate. The only difference among all study-diets was the types of complex carbohydrate used. High-glycemic diet (HG) or low glycemic diet (LG) consisted mainly of glutinous rice or mungbean noodles and the intermediate-glycemic diet (DM) was solely white rice. After the metabolic evaluation of the baseline diet (BL), each subject was placed on DM and followed randomly by HG and LG or vice versa for 4 weeks each. The diurnal plasma glucose levels tended to be lowest after LG. The integrated plasma glucose levels among all diets were not different. The integrated insulin levels after DM and LG did not differ but they were lower than HG and BL. Long-term ingestion of all test-diets spilt less urinary glucose than BL, the lowest was LG. HbA1 levels and nitrogen balance after all diets were better than BL, the best was LG. It was concluded that in addition to strict dietary control, ingestion of mungbean noodles (a low glycemic diet) without increasing fiber intake, can improve diabetic control and protein conservation in type 2 diabetes.
11282397	The thermodynamic and kinetic behaviors of energy release of mitochondria isolated from rice (Oryza sative L.) were studied by using a LKB 2277 Bioactivity Monitor under different conditions. The thermogenesis curves of energy release of the rice mitochondria (which had been kept at 0-3 degrees C for 15 h and 40 day before the determination) were determined respectively at 25 and 30 degrees C, and the difference in shape of the thermogenesis curves and thermodynamic and kinetic characteristics were compared. The thermodynamic and kinetic parameters of energy release of the mitochondria in the thermogenesis increasing stage have been calculated, and the experimental thermokinetic equations of the thermogenesis have been established. The results indicated that the lower the temperature, the slower the energy release of the rice mitochondria. Both the thermogenesis and the energy release rate of the rice mitochondria increased after the mitochondria was kept at lower temperature for 40 days. One can use the methods to characterize the ability of the rice mitochondria to release energy under different conditions.
11283343	Transcript regulation in response to high salinity was investigated for salt-tolerant rice (var Pokkali) with microarrays including 1728 cDNAs from libraries of salt-stressed roots. NaCl at 150 mM reduced photosynthesis to one tenth of the prestress value within minutes. Hybridizations of RNA to microarray slides probed for changes in transcripts from 15 min to 1 week after salt shock. Beginning 15 min after the shock, Pokkali showed upregulation of transcripts. Approximately 10% of the transcripts in Pokkali were significantly upregulated or downregulated within 1 hr of salt stress. The initial differences between control and stressed plants continued for hours but became less pronounced as the plants adapted over time. The interpretation of an adaptive process was supported by the similar analysis of salinity-sensitive rice (var IR29), in which the immediate response exhibited by Pokkali was delayed and later resulted in downregulation of transcription and death. The upregulated functions observed with Pokkali at different time points during stress adaptation changed over time. Increased protein synthesis and protein turnover were observed at early time points, followed by the induction of known stress-responsive transcripts within hours, and the induction of transcripts for defense-related functions later. After 1 week, the nature of upregulated transcripts (e.g., aquaporins) indicated recovery.
11285328	A water-soluble extract of Touchi, a traditional Chinese food, was found to exert a strong inhibitory activity against rat intestinal alpha-glucosidase. We orally administered sucrose (2 g/kg) with or without Touchi extract (TE) to normal rats at 100 and 500 mg/kg. Postprandial increases in blood glucose levels at 30 and 60 min after the administration of TE were significantly depressed compared with controls. In humans, eight borderline diabetic subjects were administered 0.1-10.0 g TE before sucrose loading (75 g). TE decreased the glycemic response dose dependently after sucrose loading. Compared with the area under the curve of the postprandial rise in blood glucose with various doses, TE elicited a significant antiglycemic effect at a minimum effective dose of 0.3 g. In addition, when four diabetics were administered 0.3 g TE before eating 200 g of cooked rice, the postprandial increases in blood glucose and mean insulin levels were significantly depressed at 60 and 120 min, respectively, after ingestion compared with levels when no TE was administered. TE, which exhibits alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity, demonstrated an antihyperglycemic effect and may have potential use in the management of patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetic mellitus.
11286079	The Bouwer and Rice method of estimating the saturated hydraulic conductivity (Ks) from slug-test data was evaluated for geometries typical of hand-dug wells. A two-dimensional, radially symmetric and variably saturated, ground water transport model was used to simulate well recovery given a range of well and aquifer geometries and unsaturated soil properties, the latter in terms of the van Genuchten parameters. The standard Bouwer and Rice method, when applied to the modeled recharge rates, underestimated Ks by factors ranging from 1.3 to 5.6, depending on the well geometry and the soil type. The Bouwer and Rice analytical solution was modified to better explain the recovery rates as predicted by the numerical model, which revealed a significant dependence on the unsaturated soil for the shallow and wide geometries that are typical of traditional wells. The modification introduces a new parameter to the Bouwer and Rice analysis that is a measure of soil capillarity which improves the accuracy of Ks estimates by tenfold for the geometries tested.
11286210	The region of Diwalwal, dominated by Mt. Diwata, is a gold rush area on Mindanao (Philippines) where approximately 15000 people live. The fertile plain of Monkayo is situated downstream, where people grow crops such as rice and bananas; locally caught fish is eaten frequently. The ore is dug in small-scale mines and ground to a powder by ball-mills while still in Diwalwal. The gold is then extracted by adding liquid mercury (Hg), forming gold-amalgam. To separate the gold from the Hg, in most cases the amalgam is simply heated in the open by blow-torches. A high external Hg burden of the local population must be assumed. To evaluate the internal Hg burden of the population and the extent of possible negative health effects, 323 volunteers from Mt. Diwalwal, Monkayo and a control group from Davao were examined by a questionnaire, neurological examination and neuro-psychological testing. Blood, urine and hair samples were taken from each participant and analyzed for total Hg. A statistical evaluation was possible for 102 workers (occupationally Hg burdened ball-millers and amalgam-smelters), 63 other inhabitants from Mt. Diwata ('only' exposed from the environment), 100 persons, living downstream in Monkayo, and 42 inhabitants of Davao (serving as controls). The large volume of data was reduced to yes/no decisions. Alcohol as a possible bias factor was excluded (level of alcohol consumption and type, see Section 4.4). Each factor with a statistically significant difference of at least one exposed group to the control group was included in a medical score (0-21 points). In each of the exposed groups this score was significantly worse than in the control group (median control, 3; downstream, 9; Mt. Diwata, non-occupational exposed, 6; Hg workers, 10). In comparison to the surprisingly high Hg concentration in blood (median, 9.0 microg/l; max, 31.3) and in hair (2.65 microg/g; max, 34.7) of the control group, only the workers show elevated levels: Hg-blood median 11.4, max 107.6; Hg-hair median 3.62, max 37.8. The Hg urine concentrations of the occupational exposed and non-exposed population on Mt. Diwata was significantly higher than in the control group: control median 1.7 microg/l, max 7.6; non-occupational burdened median 4.1, max 76.4; and workers median 11.0, max 294.2. The participants, living downstream on the plain of Monkayo show no statistically significant difference in Hg-blood, Hg-urine or Hg-hair in comparison with the control group. The German Human-Biological-Monitoring value II (HBM II) was exceeded in 19.5% (control), 26.0% (downstream), 19.4% (Mt. Diwata, non-occupational) and 55.4% (workers) of the cases, the German occupational threshold limit in 19.6% of the workers. Only some of the clinical data, characteristic for Hg intoxication (e.g. tremor, loss of memory, bluish discoloration of the gingiva, etc.), correlate with Hg in blood or urine, but not with Hg in hair. The medical score sum correlates only with Hg in urine. The poor correlation between the Hg concentration in the biomonitors to classic clinical signs of chronic Hg intoxication may be explained by several factors: Hg in blood, urine and hair do not adequately monitor the Hg burden of the target tissues, especially the brain. Inter-individual differences in the sensitiveness to Hg are extremely large. In this area a mixed burden of Hg species must be assumed (Hg vapor, inorganic Hg, methyl-Hg). Chronic Hg burden may have established damage months or even years before the actual determination of the Hg concentrations in the bio-monitors under quite different burden was performed (Drasch G. Mercury. In: Seiler HG, Sigel A, Sigel H, editors. Handbook on metals in clinical and analytical chemistry. New York: Marcel Dekker, 1994:479-494). Therefore, a 'Hg intoxication', that should be treated, was not diagnosed by the Hg concentration in the bio-monitors alone, but by a balanced combination of these Hg values and the medical score sum. In principle, this means the higher the Hg concentration in the bio-monitors, the lower the number of characteristic adverse effects are required for a positive diagnosis. By this method, 0% of the controls, 38% downstream, 27% from Mt. Diwata, non-occupational exposed and 71.6% of the workers were classified as Hg intoxicated. A reduction of the external Hg burden on Mt. Diwata is urgently recommended. An attempt to treat the intoxicated participants with the chelating agent dimercaptopropanesulfonic acid (DMPS) is planned.
11286212	The effect of cigarette smoke was studied on the germination of radish, kale, lettuce, amaranth, wheat, rice, barley and rye seeds. It was found that such smoke markedly retarded, in all cases, the rate of germination. Furthermore, cigarette smoke caused a retardation of the levels of certain enzymes (alpha-amylase or lysozyme) known to be significant in the germination of these seeds.
11287568	The polyadenylation signal of rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) was characterized by mutational and deletion analysis. The cis-acting signals required to direct polyadenylation conformed to what is known for plant poly(A) signals in general and were very similar to those of the related cauliflower mosaic virus. Processing was directed by a canonical AAUAAA poly(A) signal, an upstream UG-rich region considerably enhanced processing efficiency, and sequences downstream of the cleavage site were not required. When present at the end of a transcription unit, the cis-acting signals for 3'-end processing were highly efficient in both monocot (rice) and dicot (Nicotiana plumbaginifolia) protoplasts. In a promoter-proximal position, as in the viral genome, the signal was also efficiently processed in rice protoplasts, giving rise to an abundant "short-stop" (SS-) RNA. The proportion of SS-RNA was considerably lower in N. plumbaginifolia protoplasts. In infected plants, SS-RNA was hardly detectable, suggesting either that SS-RNA is unstable in infected plants or that read-through of the promoter-proximal poly(A) site is very efficient. SS-RNA is readily detectable in transgenic rice plants (A. Klti, C. Henrich, S. Bieri, X. He, G. Chen, P. K. Burkhardt, J. Wnn, P. Lucca, T. Hohn, I. Potrylus, and J. Ftterer, 1999. Plant Mol. Biol. 40:249-266), thus the absence of SS-RNA in infected plants can be attributed to poly(A) site bypass in the viral context to ensure production of the full-length pregenomic viral RNA. RTBV poly(A) site suppression thus depends both on context and the expression system; our results suggest that the circular viral minichromosome directs assembly of a transcription-processing complex with specific properties to effect read-through of the promoter-proximal poly(A) signal.
11288213	Infants with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) bronchiolitis have an increased risk of aspiration. The optimal feeding strategy for these patients has not been described. Fifteen previously healthy and clinically stable infants with RSV bronchiolitis underwent video-fluoroscopy studies to assess swallowing using thin barium. Those with abnormal studies underwent a repeat study, using barium that was thickened with rice cereal. Nine of 15 infants had abnormal studies with thin barium. Laryngeal or tracheal penetration with thin barium was seen in 3 and 2 infants, respectively, but not with thickened barium. Aspiration of thin barium was seen in 4 infants, but it corrected in 3 of these 4 infants with thickened barium. Thickened feeds provide a simple, safe, and cost-effective intervention to improve swallowing dysfunction and prevent aspiration in infants with RSV bronchiolitis.
11288910	A range of ethnic foods was examined for their microbiological content in relation to total viable counts (TVC) of aerobic bacteria, counts of presumptive coliforms, yeast and mould counts; presence of Salmonella spp., Listeria monocytogenes, Escherichia coli O157:H7 and Campylobacter spp.; total enumeration of Clostridium perfringens, Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus spp.; identification of moulds and the presence of total aflatoxins. Samples, which included cereals, nuts, dried fruits, herbs and spices, were obtained from local retail outlets and distributors. It was established that three samples of pistachio nuts contained significant levels of aflatoxins. The concentration of total aflatoxins in these three nut samples ranged from 15 to 259 microg/kg of sample. Only two other samples contained trace amounts of aflatoxins, all other samples analysed were found to be free of any detectable level of aflatoxins. TVCs, coliform counts and yeast and mould counts varied widely depending on the matrix tested. Generally, rice, wheat and peanuts produced low counts whereas other nuts, gram flour and spices produced much higher counts. Cl. perfringens, Staph. aureus, and Bacillus spp. were common in spices, nuts and gram flour, however, Listeria monocytogenes was only detected in four samples and in no sample could Salmonella spp, E. coli O157:H7 or Campylobacter spp. be detected.
11288913	Migration of 4-nonylphenol (NP) from polyvinyl chloride (PVC) films for food packaging into food simulants and foods has been studied in domestic applications such as wrapping of food and reheating in a microwave oven. The migration of NP from the PVC films was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical coulometric-array detection (LC/ED). Twelve PVC films intended for commercial use and ten for domestic applications (total: 22 samples) were analysed. Some of the PVC films (two home-use and ten retail-use) contained NP at concentrations of between 500 and 3300 microg/g. Migration of NP from the films was influenced by the test conditions (n-heptane at 25 degrees C for 60 min, distilled water at 60 degrees C for 30 min and 4% acetic acid at 60 degrees C for 30 min). The amount of NP migrating from the PVC films into n-heptane (0.33-1.6 microg/cm2) was higher than the amount migrating into distilled water or 4% acetic acid (up to 9.7 ng/cm2) for the 11 films in which NP was detected. Up to 0.23% of the NP migrated into distilled water and 4% acetic acid and up to 62.5% into n-heptane. In addition, we investigated NP migration into cooked rice samples wrapped in PVC film. Using spiked samples the method gave an average recovery of 83.7% (n = 5) with a standard deviation of 2.5%. Migration of NP ranged from not detectable (< 1.0 ng/g) to 410.0 ng/g by reheating samples in a microwave oven for 1 min and from not detectable to 76.5 ng/g by keeping samples at room temperature for 30 min.
11289024	A cross sectional study was carried out to evaluate the effect of rice husk dust in rice millers in Malaysia. Altogether 69 workers participated in this study. They were interviewed using standardized questionnaires and lung function tests were performed. Chest tightness was among the common symptoms (34.9%) complained by workers. Age, duration of employment and smoking status were among the factors associated with respiratory symptoms (p < 0.01). Lung function tests revealed some degree of impairment compared to the healthy population.
11289220	Eight different diets were each fed to 6 cats to evaluate the effect on a guaiac and an o-tolidine fecal occult blood test. Fecal samples were collected from day 5 through day 7. Canine blood or pure cottage cheese were used as positive and negative controls, respectively. One hundred thirty-four fecal samples were analyzed. The dry fish (capelin) and vegetable (tapioca) diet and the pure cottage cheese diet had only negative results in both tests, whereas a canned chicken and cereal (rice) diet had negative results in all fecal samples in the o-tolidine tablet test and in 10 of 16 fecal samples in the guaiac paper test. All other fecal samples from cats eating 6 other diets and the canine blood additive were positive in both fecal occult blood tests. These results indicate that occult blood tests based on o-tolidine and guaiac are clinically useful, but cats need to be on a strict diet before the tests are used.
11289600	A heat-tolerant maize (Zea mays L.) line, ZPBL 1304, synthesizes a unique set of five heat-shock polypeptides of 45 kDa. Previous studies suggested that these polypeptides might play a role in the development of thermotolerance in maize (Ristic et al., 1996, J. Plant Physiol. 149:424-432; Ristic et al., 1998, J. Plant Physiol. 153:497-505). In the present study, we isolated these polypeptides, sequenced them, and investigated their subcellular distribution and origin. Of the five polypeptides of 45 kDa, three polypeptides, including the two most abundant ones, yielded amino acid sequences similar to the chloroplast and bacterial protein synthesis elongation factor (EF-Tu). This was further confirmed using an antibody raised against maize EF-Tu, which showed a very strong reaction with the 45-kDa heatshock protein(s). Studies on subcellular distribution and origin revealed that the 45-kDa polypeptides were localized to the chloroplasts, and were likely of nuclear origin. A full-length maize EF-Tu cDNA (Zmeftu1), previously isolated from the B73 line of maize, was used as a probe for northern blot analysis of RNA extracted from the ZPBL 1304 maize line (the nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of Zmeftu1 are 88% identical to the rice EF-Tu sequence). Northern blots showed a 1.85-fold increase in steady-state levels of EF-Tu mRNA during heat stress. An increase in EF-Tu transcript levels during heat stress was accompanied by increased levels of the EF-Tu protein. Isolated chloroplasts from heat-stressed plants also had higher levels of EF-Tu as compared to control chloroplasts. The maize EF-Tu polypeptides showed > 80% sequence similarity with the bacterial EF-Tu, which has recently been shown to function as a molecular chaperone and to play a role in the protection of other proteins from thermal denaturation (Caldas et al., 1998, J. Biol. Chem. 273:11478-11482). It is hypothesized that chloroplast EF-Tu of the ZPBL 1304 maize line plays an important role in the development of thermotolerance.
11289614	Feruloyl-CoA:arabinoxylan-trisaccharide O-hydroxycinnamoyl transferase, which catalyzes the transfer of ferulic acid from Fer-CoA to arabinoxylan-trisaccharide in the formation of feruloyl arabinoxylan-trisaccharide (Fer-AXX), has been found in an ionically bound fraction and a cytosol fraction of suspension-cultured rice (Oriza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) cells. Analysis of reaction products by high-performance liquid chromatography showed the formation of product A, which is one of the transfer products having the same retention time as authentic Fer-AXX. Product A was purified by reverse-phase chromatographies to characterize its structure. The isolated product A showed the same ultraviolet spectrum and molecular weight on fast atom bombardment mass spectrometric analysis as those of authentic Fer-AXX. Alakaline saponification of product A released ferulic acid and oligosaccharide. The released oligosaccharide consisted of arabinose and xylose in a molar ratio of 1:2. These results support the identity of product A as feruloylated arabinoxylan-trisaccharide and show the existence of a feruloyltransferase catalyzing the feruloylation of a hemicellulosic fragment.
11289862	When an asymmetric double dot is hybridized with itinerant electrons, its singlet ground state and lowly excited triplet state cross, leading to a competition between the Zhang-Rice mechanism of singlet-triplet splitting in a confined cluster and the Kondo effect (which accompanies the tunneling through quantum dot under a Coulomb blockade restriction). The rich physics of an underscreened S = 1 Kondo impurity in the presence of low-lying triplet-singlet excitations is exposed and estimates of the magnetic susceptibility and the electric conductance are presented, together with applications for molecule chemisorption on metallic substrates.
11290728	Large-scale physical mapping has been a major challenge for plant geneticists due to the lack of techniques that are widely affordable and can be applied to different species. Here we present a physical map of rice chromosome 10 developed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) mapping of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones on meiotic pachytene chromosomes. This physical map is fully integrated with a genetic linkage map of rice chromosome 10 because each BAC clone is anchored by a genetically mapped restriction fragment length polymorphism marker. The pachytene chromosome-based FISH mapping shows a superior resolving power compared to the somatic metaphase chromosome-based methods. The telomere-centromere orientation of DNA clones separated by 40 kb can be resolved on early pachytene chromosomes. Genetic recombination is generally evenly distributed along rice chromosome 10. However, the highly heterochromatic short arm shows a lower recombination frequency than the largely euchromatic long arm. Suppression of recombination was found in the centromeric region, but the affected region is far smaller than those reported in wheat and barley. Our FISH mapping effort also revealed the precise genetic position of the centromere on chromosome 10.
11291573	Anaphylactic reactions to food containing allergens in the consumption or preparation of food are well known. However, allergy in the preparation of sausages have rarely been described. In the present study a 26-year-old butcher was investigated who had a severe anaphylactic reaction developing sneezing, rhinitis, conjunctivitis, generalised pruritus, followed by widespread urticaria, Quincke's oedema and dyspnoe after starting to prepare sausages containing red yield rice. Red yield rice is produced from polished and washed rice by means of the fungus Monascus purpureus. It was the first time that Monascus purpureus could be shown as allergic agent by means of prick-to-prick test, Cellular Antigen Stimulation Test (CAST) and different other immunoblots.
11294122	Presently, there are no established scales that evaluate change in risk among sexual offenders. The Sex Offender Need Assessment Rating (SONAR) was developed to fill this gap. The SONAR includes five relatively stable factors (intimacy deficits, negative social influences, attitudes tolerant of sex offending, sexual self-regulation, general self-regulation) and four acute factors (substance abuse, negative mood, anger, victim access). The psychometric properties of the scale were examined using data previously collected by Hanson and Harris (1998, 2000). Overall, the scale showed adequate internal consistency and moderate ability to differentiate between recidivists and nonrecidivists (r = .43; ROC area of .74). SONAR continued to distinguish between the groups after controlling for well-established risk indicators, such as age, and scores on the Static-99 (Hanson & Thornton, 2000) and the Violence Risk Appraisal Guide (Quinsey, Harris, Rice, & Cormier, 1998).
11294614	Genetic diversity among 42 Indian elite rice varieties, which is important for selection of parents for conventional breeding and hybrid program, was evaluated using three different types of DNA markers and parentage analysis. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD), inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) and sequence tagged microsatellite site (STMS) markers resulted in mean heterozygosity values of 0.429, 0.675 and 0.882 over all loci, respectively, and marker index values of 2.21, 4.05 and 5.49, respectively. The three molecular marker systems together provide wider genome coverage and, therefore, would be a better indicator of the genetic relationships among the 42 elite rice cultivars than those revealed using individual molecular markers. A total of 153 bands (91%) were polymorphic out of 168 bands amplified, considering all the markers together. The average genetic similarity coefficient across all the 861 cultivar pairs was 0.70 while the average coefficient of parentage was 0.10. Cluster analysis revealed that there was a very poor correlation (correlation coefficient <0.1) between dendrograms generated using coefficients of parentage and molecular marker generated genetic similarities, which can be attributed to selection pressure, genetic drift, sampling of loci and unknown relationships among supposedly unrelated ancestors.
11295717	We evaluated and compared the efficacy of the World Health Organization (WHO) oral rehydration solution (ORS) and 2 different formulations of reduced osmolarity ORSs in infants with persistent diarrhea. Infants with persistent diarrhea (n = 95) were randomized to 1 of the 3 ORSs: WHO-ORS (control, n = 32), a glucose-based reduced osmolarity ORS (RORS-G, n = 30), or a rice-based reduced osmolarity ORS (RORS-R, n = 31) for replacement of ongoing stool losses for up to 7 days. Major outcome measures were stool volume and frequency, ORS intake, and resolution of diarrhea. Although there were variations from one study day to another, the stool volume was approximately 40% less in the reduced osmolarity ORS groups; consequently, these children required less ORS (22% for RORS-G and 27% for RORS-R groups). A higher proportion of children in the RORS-R groups also had resolution of diarrhea during the study period. No children in any of the treatment groups had hyponatremia. Reduced osmolarity ORS is clinically more effective than WHO-ORS and may thus be advantageous for use in the treatment of children with persistent diarrhea.
11296259	Flock house virus (FHV), a single-stranded RNA insect virus, has previously been reported to cross the kingdom barrier and replicate in barley protoplasts and in inoculated leaves of several plant species [Selling, B. H., Allison, R. F. & Kaesberg, P. (1990) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87, 434-438]. There was no systemic movement of FHV in plants. We tested the ability of movement proteins (MPs) of plant viruses to provide movement functions and cause systemic spread of FHV in plants. We compared the growth of FHV in leaves of nontransgenic and transgenic plants expressing the MP of tobacco mosaic virus or red clover necrotic mosaic virus (RCNMV). Both MPs mobilized cell-to-cell and systemic movement of FHV in Nicotiana benthamiana plants. The yield of FHV was more than 100-fold higher in the inoculated leaves of transgenic plants than in the inoculated leaves of nontransgenic plants. In addition, FHV accumulated in the noninoculated upper leaves of both MP-transgenic plants. RCNMV MP was more efficient in mobilizing FHV to noninoculated upper leaves. We also report here that FHV replicates in inoculated leaves of six additional plant species: alfalfa, Arabidopsis, Brassica, cucumber, maize, and rice. Our results demonstrate that plant viral MPs cause cell-to-cell and long-distance movement of an animal virus in plants and offer approaches to the study of the evolution of viruses and mechanisms governing mRNA trafficking in plants as well as to the development of promising vectors for transient expression of foreign genes in plants.
11296819	Chagas disease constitutes a major human health problem in most Latin American countries. This endemic disease is transmitted by several species of triatomine bugs, the most important being Triatoma infestans (Klug). In this article, we report on the selection of strains of the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuill. virulent to T. infestans for possible use as bioinsecticides. Four strains of B. hassiana isolated from Argentina (Bb 1, 10, 25, and 65) were evaluated. To calculate mortality and mean lethal time, nymphs and adults of T. infestans were treated with conidia produced on complete agar medium and wheat brain and rice husk medium (WH). The LD50 for nymphs and adults of T. infestans was calculated. The effect of different temperatures (18, 22, 26, 30, and 34 degrees C) and relative humidities (35 and 90% RH) on mortality of nymphs were studied. We evaluated the compatibility of strains with Deltamethrin and Beta-Cypermethrin. Although the strain Bb 25 failed to grow on WH, the other three strains showed similar mortality values independent of the culture medium used to grow the microorganisms. The lowest LD50 values for nymphs were obtained with the strains Bb 10 and 65 and for adults were Bb 1, 10, and 65. The highest mean mortality was obtained with strain Bb 10, and among temperatures the highest mean mortality was observed at 26 degrees C. Relative humidity did not affect the mortality of T. infestans nymphs with all strains and temperatures assayed. Deltamethrin did not affect any of the three strains for the four studied doses, and Beta-Cypermethrin could be used in combination with the fungus only at low doses. The strain Bb 10 was selected for future assays under natural climatic conditions.
11297392	Soil samples were collected from rice growing and industrial areas in South Korea and analysed for organochlorine pesticide content using gas chromatography with electron capture detection. The soils were monitored for the presence of 18 organochlorine pesticides. The main pesticides found were gamma- and delta-hexachlorocyclohexane, heptachlor epoxide and dieldrin. The range of concentrations, for each compound, was respectively, 0.17-0.94, 0.77-2.97, 1.38-48.0 and 0.32-0.49 ng/g soil. The highest values were found in soil obtained from rice fields indicating that, although the use of organochlorine pesticides has been discontinued since 1980, substantial concentrations of residues particularly the oxidised form of heptachlor remain in the soil.
11297783	Arginine decarboxylase (ADC) cDNA from oat (Avena sativa L.) was introduced into rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome by an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method. Expression of the ADC transgene under the control of an ABA-inducible promoter led to stress-induced upregulation of ADC activity and polyamine accumulation in transgenic rice plants. Second-generation (Rl) transgenic rice plants showed an increase in biomass under salinity-stress conditions, as compared to the non-transformed control plants.
11297801	We used particle bombardment to cotransform mature seed-derived rice callus (Oryza sativa L., ssp. japonica, cv. Eyi 105) with plasmids containing the linked marker genes gusA and hpt, and the ap1 gene encoding an amphipathic protein previously shown to delay the hypersensitive response induced in non-host plants by the pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae (Pss). Thirty-two independent lines of transgenic rice plants were regenerated, and 27 of these lines carried all three transgenes as shown by molecular analysis. A bacterial blight inoculation test was carried out on ten lines. In each case, plants carrying the ap1 gene showed enhanced resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) race 6 at various levels. This suggests the ap1 gene could be a useful candidate for genetic engineering strategies in rice to provide bacterial blight resistance.
11298225	To purify and characterize an extracellular alpha-glucosidase from Trichoderma viride capable of inactivating a host-specific phytotoxin, designated RS toxin, produced by the rice sheath blight pathogen, Rhizoctonia solani Khn. The host-specific RS toxin was purified from both culture filtrates (culture filtrate toxin, CFTox) and R. solani-inoculated rice sheaths (sheath blight toxin, SBTox). Sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analyses of extracellular proteins, purified from a biocontrol fungus T. viride (TvMNT7) grown on SBTox and CFTox separately, were carried out. The antifungal activity of the purified high molecular weight protein (110 kDa) was studied against RS toxin as well as on the sclerotial germination and mycelial growth of R. solani. Enzyme assay and Western blot analysis with the antirabbit TvMNT7 110-kDa protein indicated that the protein was an alpha-glucosidase. The 110-kDa protein was highly specific to RS toxin and its Michaelis-Menten constant value was 0.40 mmol l-1 when p-nitrophenyl alpha-D-glucopyranoside was used as the substrate. The isoelectric point of the protein was 5.2. N-terminal sequencing of the alpha-glucosidase protein showed that its amino acid sequence showed no homology with other known alpha-glucosidases. This appears to be the first report of the purification and characterization of an alpha-glucosidase capable of inactivating a host-specific toxin of fungal origin. The alpha-glucosidase is specific to RS toxin and is different from the known alpha-glucosidases. As RS toxin could be inactivated by the microbial alpha-glucosidase enzyme, isolation of the gene that codes for the enzyme from T. viride and transfer of the gene to rice plants would lead to enhanced resistance against sheath blight pathogen by inactivation of RS toxin.
11298924	A 35 amino acid residue peptide corresponding to the N-terminal subdomain of the granulin-like repeat from rice oryzain beta was synthesized and regioselectively oxidized to produce a species with a [1-3, 2-4] disulfide-pairing pattern. The resulting peptide was studied in solution using NMR and was shown to adopt the tertiary topology of a stack of two beta-hairpins found in the emerging family of granulin-like growth factors. Because of the longer second beta-hairpin, the overall conformation of the peptide is somewhat more flexible than that of its well-structured carp granulin-1 analog. Except for the cysteine alignment, there is very little sequence homology between granulin-like growth factors from the animal kingdom and the granulin-like repeats at the C-termini of plant cysteine proteases. Therefore, the stack of two beta-hairpins may be a conserved three-dimensional organization of the granulin-like repeats from evolutionary distant sources with a significant role in specific protein-protein interactions.
11298935	To evaluate a simple and economical technique to improve xylitol production using concentrated xylose solutions prepared from rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate. Experiments were carried out with rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate containing 90 g l-1 xylose, with and without the addition of nutrients, using the yeast Candida guilliermondii previously grown on the hydrolysate (adapted cells) or on semi-defined medium (unadapted cells). By this method, the yield of xylitol increased from 17 g l-1 to 50 g l-1, and xylose consumption increased from 52% to 83%, after 120 h of fermentation. The xylitol production rates were very close to that (0.42 g l-1 h-1) attained in a medium simulating hydrolysate sugars. Yeast strain adaptation to the hydrolysate showed to be a suitable method to alleviate the inhibitory effects of the toxic compounds. Adapted cells of Candida guilliermondii can efficiently produce xylitol from hydrolysate with high xylose concentrations. Yeast adaptation helps the bioconversion process in hydrolysate made from lignocellulosic materials. This low-cost technique provides an alternative to the detoxification methods used for removal of inhibitory compounds. In addition, the use of adapted inocula makes it possible to schedule a series of batch cultures so that the whole plant can be operated almost continuously with a concomitant reduction in the overall operation time.
11299355	The ammonium ion is an indispensable nitrogen source for crops, especially paddy rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Nipponbare). Until now, it has been impossible to measure ammonium uptake and nitrogen movement in plants in real time. Using the new technologies of PETIS (positron emitting tracer imaging system) and PMPS (positron multi-probe system), we were able to visualize the real time translocation of nitrogen and water in rice plants. We used positron-emitting 13N-labeled ammonium (13NH4+) and 15O-water to monitor the movement. In plants cultured under normal conditions, 13NH4+ supplied to roots was taken up, and a 13N signal was detected at the discrimination center, the basal part of the shoots, within 2 minutes. This rapid translocation of (13)N was almost completely inhibited by a glutamine synthetase inhibitor, methionine sulfoximine. In general, nitrogen deficiency enhanced 13N translocation to the discrimination center. In the dark, 13N translocation to the discrimination center was suppressed to 40% of control levels, whereas 15O-water flow from the root to the discrimination center stopped completely in the dark. In abscisic acid-treated rice, 13N translocation to the discrimination center was doubled, whereas translocation to leaves decreased to 40% of control levels. Pretreatment with NO3- for 36 hours increased 13N translocation from the roots to the discrimination center to 5 times of control levels. These results suggest that ammonium assimilation (from the roots to the discrimination center) depends passively on water flow, but actively on NH4+-transporter(s) or glutamine synthetase(s).
11299363	Lithospermum erythrorhizon produces red naphthoquinone pigments that are shikonin derivatives. They are accumulated exclusively in the roots of this plant. The biosynthesis of shikonin is strongly inhibited by light, even though other environmental conditions are optimized. Thus, L. erythrorhizon dark-inducible genes (LeDIs) were isolated to investigate the regulatory mechanism of shikonin biosynthesis. LeDI-2, showing the strict dark-specific expression, was further characterized by use of cell suspension cultures and hairy root cultures as model systems. Its mRNA accumulation showed a similar pattern with that of shikonin. In the intact plants LeDI-2 expression was observed solely in the root, and the longitudinal distribution of its mRNA was also in accordance to that of shikonin. LeDI-2 encoded a very hydrophobic polypeptide of 114 amino acids that shared significant similarities with some root-specific polypeptides such as ZRP3 (maize) and RcC3 (rice). Reduction of LeDI-2 expression by its antisense DNA in hairy roots of L. erythrorhizon decreased the shikonin accumulation, whereas other biosynthetic enzymes, e.g. p-hydroxybenzoic acid:geranyltransferase, which catalyzed a critical biosynthetic step, showed similar activity as the wild-type clone. This is the first report of the gene that is involved in production of secondary metabolites without affecting biosynthetic enzyme activities.
11299384	Azospirillum species are plant growth-promotive bacteria whose beneficial effects have been postulated to be partially due to production of phytohormones, including gibberellins (GAs). In this work, Azospirillum brasilense strain Cd and Azospirillum lipoferum strain USA 5b promoted sheath elongation growth of two single gene GA-deficient dwarf rice (Oryza sativa) mutants, dy and dx, when the inoculated seedlings were supplied with [17,17-2H2]GA20-glucosyl ester or [17,17- 2H2]GA20-glucosyl ether. Results of capillary gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis show that this growth was due primarily to release of the aglycone [17,17-2H2]GA20 and its subsequent 3beta-hydroxylation to [17,17-2H2]GA1 by the microorganism for the dy mutant, and by both the rice plant and microorganism for the dx mutant.
11301338	The DE1 sequence is a cis-regulatory element necessary and sufficient for light down-regulated and dark-inducible expression of the pea GTPase pra2 gene. This sequence does not show any sequence similarity to the previously reported ones involved in light-regulated gene expression. A one-hybrid screen isolated a cDNA encoding a DNA-binding protein, named DF1, with specificity for the DE1 sequence 5'-TACAGT. DF1 has domains similar to the trihelix DNA-binding domain found in the GT-1 and GT-2 proteins, which are plant transcription factors. The DE1-binding domain of DF1 is most similar to the carboxyl-terminal trihelix domain of the rice GT-2 protein with specificity for the GT2 sequence 5'-GGTAATT, which is also necessary for dark-inducible expression of the rice phyA gene. An electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed that this DNA-binding domain specifically binds to two types of DNA sequences, DE1 and GT2. Additionally, using DF1/GT-1 chimeras, we show that the second and third helices of the trihelix DNA-binding domain of DF1 are responsible for this dual DNA binding specificity. Our results show that DF1 has specificity for the two distinct cis-regulatory elements, both important for light down-regulated and dark-inducible gene expression in higher plants.
11302166	Lactic acid fermentation of cooked rice and rice koji by supplementation with soybean extract (SBE) and its application to rice miso fermentation were investigated. By supplementing the cooked rice with SBE, lactic acid bacteria (LAB) grew well without any unfavorable effects on the rice such as off-flavor or coloration. Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis IFO12007 (Lc. lactis, a producer of the bacteriocin nisin) proliferated at 10(8 to approximately 9) cells/g after 24 h of incubation and produced high activity of nisin. The fermented rice with Lc. lactis strongly inhibited not only Bacillus subtilis ATCC19659 but also the other Bacillus strains. While some strains of LAB markedly inhibited the growth of Asp. oryzae, resulting in failure of koji fermentation, Lc. lactis did not affect the growth of these molds. When Lc. lactis was used for rice miso fermentation as a lactic acid starter culture, Lc. lactis rapidly proliferated and produced high nisin activity of 6,400 IU/g, in the steamed rice, resulting in complete growth inhibition of B. subtilis, which had been inoculated at the beginning of the koji fermentation. The rice miso after 12 weeks of aging had a suitable pH, and favorable taste and color. Furthermore, hyposalting of rice miso could be done without difficulty by lactic acid fermentation of both rice and soybeans.
11302171	The hypocholesterolemic effect of rice bran oil (RBO) is defined in human and animal experiments which indicate the presence of active component(s) in the unsaponifiable fraction, but the detailed mechanism is not known yet. Exogenously hypercholesterolemic (ExHC) rats were fed for 2 weeks on a 0.5% cholesterol diet supplemented with 10% each of RBO, RBO-simulated oil (RBOSO) in its fatty acid composition, or RBOSO plus 0.25% unsaponifiable compounds (UC) from RBO. Rats fed RBO or the UC resulted in lowing serum and liver cholesterol concentration and preventing reduction of high density lipoproteinic-cholesterol. Dietary RBO or the UC led to an elevation of fecal neutral sterol excretion, but no significant change in fecal bile acid excretion or in hepatic abundance of mRNAs for 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase, cholesterol-7alpha-hydroxylase, and low density lipoprotein receptor. Besides, serum and liver alpha-tocopherol concentrations were lowered in RBO or the UC-fed rats. These results show that the UC in RBO leads to a decreased serum cholesterol concentration by interrupting the absorption of intestinal hydrophobic compounds rather than by modifying cholesterol metabolism in the liver.
11302523	Endocytosis is now considered a basic cellular process common to plant cells. Although both non-specific and receptor-mediated endocytosis appear to take place in plant cells, the physiological role of the latter remains unclear. We have investigated the endocytic process in rice cell suspensions using two biotinylated proteins, peroxidase and bovine serum albumin (bHRP and bBSA), as markers. First, we show that markers are internalized by rice cells and appear in intracellular membranes. The uptake of the two markers is temperature dependent, saturable with time and markers dose and it is competed by free biotin. Thus, it shows the properties of a receptor-mediated process. We also show that uptake of markers is strongly influenced by growth phase as optimal uptake occurs during the lag phase, but the initiation of the exponential growth phase decreases uptake drastically. Arrest of the cell cycle by starvation of either a nutrient (phosphate) or a growth regulator (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), both components of the culture medium, does not modify the rate of bBSA uptake. Subsequent readdition of these components results in growth recovery and a dramatic decrease in bBSA uptake. On the other hand, nocodazole treatment, a method to arrest the cell cycle by microtubule depolymerization, inhibited bBSA uptake. The possible causes for this arrest of endocytosis are discussed.
11302577	A study was undertaken to examine the uptake of the organophosphate insecticide pyridaphenthion in the chlorophyta Chlorella saccharophila. Algae cultures were exposed to the initial nominal concentration 10.0 mg l(-1) pyridaphention during seven days. The insecticide bioconcentrates in the biomass to the highest level of 441.5 +/- 25.9 mg kg(-1) on the fifth day of exposure and was followed by a decrease to 76.6 +/- 5.1 mg kg(-1) on the seventh day. A model was constructed to describe the dynamic process, which estimated a bioconcentration factor (BCF) equal to 28. The study demonstrates the potential of accumulation of pyridaphenthion in aquatic organisms and helps to expand the pyridaphenthion toxicity database. The replacement of fenitrothion by pyridaphenthion concerning their use in rice flooded cultures is discussed.
11302578	The uptake behavior of rare earth elements (REEs) under pot conditions using deionized water and a REE fertilizer solution as the culture media as well as the distribution of REEs in rice proteins were studied. The uptake of REEs in rice seeds increased dramatically after a lag period of approximately three days. Roots can accumulate a much higher content of REEs than germs and the resting seeds. The REE content in each water-soluble (albumin) and salt-soluble (globulin) component of the rice seeds accounted for 5-8% and 4-6% of the total REEs, respectively. However, there are less than 1.5% of the total REEs were found in the alcohol-soluble (prolamin) and acetic acid-soluble (glutelin) components. The high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in the gel permeation and the reserved-phase were used to monitor changes in the molecular weight distribution changes of the soluble proteins of rice seeds during germination after having been cultured in the same solution for seven days. No changes occurred in the prolamin, while a slight change occurred in the albumin, globulin and glutelin. Fractionation of the albumin of rice seeds cultured in a REE fertilizer solution on the Sephadex G-100 column indicated that REEs, especially Ce, La, Pr and Nd, were associated mainly with biological compounds of a molecular weight between 10,000 and 12,000.
11303776	Nouns may refer to countable objects such as tables, or to mass entities such as rice. The mass/count distinction has been discussed in terms of both semantic and syntactic features encoded in the mental lexicon. Here we show that event-related potentials (ERPs) can reflect the processing of such lexical features, even in the absence of any feature-related violations. We demonstrate that count (vs mass) nouns elicit a frontal negativity which is independent of the N400 marker for conceptual-semantic processing, but resembles anterior negativities related to grammatical processing. This finding suggests that the brain differentiates between count and mass nouns primarily on a syntactic basis.
11304916	Studies on the breeding pattern of mosquito immatures and the successional changes in the abundance of aquatic insects were conducted in rice fields near Madurai, south India. The population of late (III/IV) larval instars of culicines peaked on Day 28 and pupae (Culex tritaeniorhynchus, Cx. pseudovishnui and Cx. vishnui) peaked on Day 9 after transplantation, whereas the population of late (III/IV) larval instars of anophelines peaked on Day 19 and pupae of Anopheles subpictus and An. vagus on Days 7 and 9 respectively, after transplantation of paddy. A total of 14 families (consisting of 17 subfamilies) of aquatic insects belonging to six different orders, Coleoptera, Diptera, Ephemeroptera, Hemiptera, Anisoptera and Zygoptera were collected during the study period and the abundance of each group of insects is discussed in detail. The Shannon-Weaver Diversity Index, applied to study the diversity of different groups of aquatic insects, showed a clear pattern in diversity of surface predators, bottom predators and non-predators of mosquito immatures. The multiple linear regression model reveals that notonectid adults, coenagrionids, libellulids and veliids act as important predators of mosquito immatures in rice fields.
11305328	Bicoid is one of the important Drosophila maternal genes involved in the control of embryo polarity and larvae segmentation. To clone and characterize the rice bicoid-related genes, one cDNA clone, Rb24 (EMBL accession number: AJ2771380), was isolated by screening of rice unmature seed cDNA library. Sequence analysis indicates that Rb24 contains a putative amino acid sequence, which is homologous to unique 8 amino acids sequence within Drosophila bicoid homeodomain (50% identity, 75% similarity) and involves a lys-9 in putative helix 3. Northern blot analysis of rice RNA has shown that this sequence is expressed in a tissue-specific manner. The transcript was detected strongly in young panicles, but less in young leaves and roots. This results are further confirmed with paraffin section in situ hybridization. The signal is intensive in rice globular embryo and located at the apical tip of the embryo, then, along with the development of embryo, the signal is getting reduced and transfers into both sides of embryo. The existence of bicoid-related sequence in rice embryo and the similarity of polar distribution of bicoid and Rb24 mRNA in early embryo development may implicates a conserved maternal regulation mechanism of body axis presents in Drosophila and in rice.
11307900	The production of Alternaria mycotoxins by Alternaria alternata isolated from Chinese weathered wheat kernels were first investigated on polished rice and durum wheat grains. These mycotoxins included alternariol (AOH) and its monomethyl ether (AME), altenuene (ALT), altertoxin I (ATX-I), and tenuazonic acid (TA). Of 25 isolates tested, all were AOH and AME producers, 21 (84%) coproduced ALT and ATX-I, and 8 (32%) produced TA in rice culture. TA was the most abundant toxin produced at a level ranging from 1,369 to 3,563 mg/kg. Much smaller amounts of AOH, AME, ALT, and ATX-I were present with average concentrations of 54, 40, 44, and 8 mg/kg, respectively. There were linear correlations between the level of AOH and AME (r = 0.846), alternariols (AOH plus AME) and ALT (r = 0.785), and ATX-I and TA (r = 0.553). Polished rice medium seems to support a bit more production of Alternaria metabolites than wheat but with an insignificant difference in concentrations (P > 0.05). A study of the time-course of toxin production by A. alternata isolates indicated that AOH production began faster than any other toxins monitored, and ALT production exhibited a progressive increase throughout the experiment. TA producers might reveal their considerably higher ability to produce toxin in the field despite their low frequency.
11308370	The antioxidant activities of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol, alpha-tocotrienol, gamma-tocopherol, and gamma-tocotrienol) and gamma-oryzanol components (cycloartenyl ferulate, 24-methylenecycloartanyl ferulate, and campesteryl ferulate) purified from rice bran were investigated in a cholesterol oxidation system accelerated by 2,2'-azobis(2-methylpropionamidine) dihydrochloride. All components exhibited significant antioxidant activity in the inhibition of cholesterol oxidation. The highest antioxidant activity was found for 24-methylenecycloartanyl ferulate, and all three gamma-oryzanol components had activities higher than that of any of the four vitamin E components. Because the quantity of gamma-oryzanol is up to 10 times higher than that of vitamin E in rice bran, gamma-oryzanol may be a more important antioxidant of rice bran in the reduction of cholesterol oxidation than vitamin E, which has been considered to be the major antioxidant in rice bran. The antioxidant function of these components against cholesterol oxidation may contribute to the potential hypocholesterolemic property of rice bran.
11308889	We introduce a model for granular flow in a one-dimensional rice pile that incorporates rolling effects through a long-range rolling probability for the individual rice grains proportional to r(-rho), r being the distance traveled by a grain in a single toppling event. The exponent rho controls the average rolling distance. We have shown that the crossover from the power law to the stretched exponential behaviors observed experimentally in the granular dynamics of rice piles can be well described as a long-range effect resulting from a change in the transport properties of individual grains. We showed that stretched exponential avalanche distributions can be associated with a long-range regime for 1<rho<2, where the average rolling distance grows as a power law with the system size, while power law distributions are associated with a short-range regime for rho>2, where the average rolling distance is independent of the system size.
11310421	Major advances have occurred in food production during the last 30 years as a result of the adoption of green revolution technology. The price of rice and wheat is 40 % lower than it was in the 1950s. This lower price has helped the poorer sections of society, who spend 50-60% of their income on food. The proportion of the population in the developing world that is malnourished fell from 46.5% in the early 1960s to 31% in 1995. However, there are still 1.3 billion of the population who go to bed hungry every day. Deficiencies of micronutrients such as Fe, Zn and vitamin A affect millions of the population in the developing world. The world population is increasing at the rate of 1.4%, or an increase of eighty million per year. It is estimated that we will have to produce 50% more food grains by 2025. Various strategies for meeting this challenge exist, including the development of cereal varieties with a higher yield potential and yield stability, and farmer-friendly public policies. In order to tackle hidden hunger, efforts are underway to develop crop varieties with higher concentrations of Fe and Zn. Recently, a breakthrough has occurred in the introduction of the genes for the pathway leading to the biosynthesis of beta-carotene, a precursor of vitamin A, in rice. Various conventional approaches and modem tools of biotechnology are being employed in the development of crop varieties with higher yields and higher levels of micronutrients.
11310521	We reviewed the published literature regarding the antihyperlipidemic effects of dietary supplements. A search of MEDLINE database, EMBASE Drugs and Pharmacology database, and the Internet was performed, and pertinent studies were identified and evaluated. References from published articles and tertiary references were used to gather additional data. Published trials indicate that red yeast rice, tocotrienols, gugulipid, garlic, and soy protein all have antihypercholesterolemic effects. These supplements, as well as omega-3 fatty acids, also have antihypertriglyceridemic effects. In clinical trials none of the agents led to a reduction in low-density lipoproteins greater than 25%, suggesting modest efficacy. When recommending these supplements, clinicians should keep in mind that their long-term safety is not established and patients should be monitored closely.
11310740	Endogenous signal molecules such as jasmonic acid (JA) and salicylic acid (SA) play an important role in induced resistance against pathogen infection and insect herbivory. In rice seedlings, JA is an effective inducer of systemic acquired resistance (SAR) against infection of blast fungus (Pyricularia grisea). To gain further insights into JA-mediated defense signaling pathways, we isolated and characterized a pathogen- and JA-induced rice gene (JAmyb) that encodes a Myb transcription factor. The JAmyb gene was induced within 1 day after fungal infection in resistant and susceptible interactions prior to lesion formation. Unlike most defense-related genes that are activated faster and stronger in resistant interactions, JAmyb induction by blast fungus is much higher in susceptible interactions, accompanied by large lesions and extensive tissue damage. Significant induction of JAmyb also was observed during cell death and lesion formation in certain lesion mimic mutants. Interestingly, JAmyb was activated rapidly by JA or wounding, independent of de novo protein synthesis, but not by other endogenous signal molecules such as SA and abscisic acid or SAR inducers such as benzothiadiazole and probenazole. We used SA-deficient transgenic plants to further demonstrate that depletion of SA in rice did not abolish but rather enhanced blast-induced JAmyb expression. These results suggest that JAmyb is related closely to host cell death and is involved in the JA-mediated, SA-independent signaling pathways in rice.
11311433	The interaction between phototrophic dinitrogen fixers and methanogens was examined in soil slurries amended with rice straw using 2-bromoethanesulfonic acid (BES), a specific methanogenic inhibitor. Slurries incubated in light increased phototrophic nitrogenase activity (acetylene reducing activity), and showed growth of phototrophic purple bacteria and reduction of CH(4) emission, indicating outcompetition of purple bacteria with methanogens in photic zones. Adding BES effectively inhibited methane production and markedly increased phototrophic acetylene reducing activity accompanied with acetate accumulation, but did not affect populations of purple bacteria in the slurries. More acetate accumulated in the inhibited slurries incubated in dark. We suggest that increased availability of organic substrates for purple bacteria after stopping methanogenic consumption by BES caused the increased phototrophic acetylene reducing activity. These results indicate that, after purple bacteria grow enough, performance of their N(2) fixation may be limited by substrate availability, which methanogenesis may profoundly influence.
11312856	Rice bran was found to effectively adsorb several organic compounds, such as dichloromethane, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, and benzene. Equilibrium adsorption isotherms conformed to the Freundlich type (log-log linear). The adsorption of dichloromethane and chloroform by rice bran was observed over the range of pH 1-11. Therefore, rice bran is applicable for treatment of wastewater over a wide pH range. Dichloromethane was successfully removed from water samples with an average removal efficiency of 70% after 60 min when rice bran was added to water samples containing from 0.006 to 100 mg/L dichloromethane. The removal of these organochlorine compounds and benzene by rice bran was attributed to the uptake by intracellular particles called spherosomes. Here, we report the results of a fundamental study of the efficiency of rice bran for removal of organochlorine compounds and benzene using a batch system on the laboratory scale, and describe elucidation of the mechanism of removal of these compounds by rice bran.
11314238	Oral rehydration solutions containing rice maltodextrins (R-ORS) have been reported to be more effective than glucose-based ORS in reducing intestinal losses in infectious diarrhea. To evaluate the effect of R-ORS in patients with total colectomy and high intestinal output, a perspective open noncontrolled study was performed on 13 adult patients who consumed 1 l/day of R-ORS for 7 days. Body weight, daily ileal and urinary output, serum electrolytes, aldosterone and renin activity were measured the day before (day 0) and on the last day of the study (day 7). Net changes (mean +/- SE) from day 0-7 showed an increase of urine Na (40 +/- 16 mmol/day, p < 0.04) and K (24 +/- 8 mmol/day, p < 0.02). Body weight increased in seven patients. Serum renin activity decreased (-0.60 +/- 0.26 ng/ml/min) in these patients but not in the six patients in whom body weight remained unchanged (0.19 +/- 0.07 ng/ml/min; p < 0.03). Ileal and urinary volume remained stable. In patients with high ileal output, R-ORS supplementation improved Na and K balance. The association of increased body weight with decreased serum renin concentrations suggests that a positive water balance also occurred.
11315225	From 1978 to 1979, a group of people in Taiwan were exposed to high levels of heat-degraded polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) owing to accidental ingestion of contaminated rice oil. Children born to mothers following the exposure ('Yucheng' children) were known to have hyperpigmented skin and other dysmorphology after birth. To determine the effect of prenatal exposure to PCBs on cognitive development in Yucheng children. One hundred and eighteen Yucheng children prenatally exposed to PCBs and degradation products, and community-matched control children who were exposed to background levels only, were followed from 1985 to 1998. The Bayley Scale for Infant Development, Chinese version of the Stanford-Binet IQ Test, Raven's Coloured Progressive Matrices and Raven's Standardised Progressive Matrices were used to assess the cognitive development of these children. The Yucheng children scored lower than control children on each of these methods of measurement between the ages of 2 and 12 years. Prenatal exposure to PCBs and their derivatives has long-term adverse effects on cognitive development in humans.
11315634	A Dianthovirus RNA1-like RNA (DR1L RNA, 4486 nucleotides in length) was found in grassy stunt-diseased rice plants together with Rice grassy stunt virus (RGSV). DR1L RNA has characteristics common to Dianthovirus RNA1 such as (1) presence of a GGAUUUUUAG potential shifty-heptanucleotide at the end of the 5'-proximal ORF, which encodes a 35-kDa protein, followed by a 77-nucleotide sequence capable of forming a stem-loop structure for an efficient--1 frameshift to express the downstream region in a 96-kDa putative replicase protein, (2) presence of nearly identical 17-nucleotide sequences in the 5'-terminal region and in a region upstream of an ORF encoding a 28-kDa, putative capsid protein (CP), and (3) near identity of the 3'-terminal 20 nucleotides to those of Dianthovirus RNAs. Western blot analysis using an antiserum against the C-terminal domain of the putative CP and RT-PCR analysis using primers specific to DR1L RNA of fractions after sucrose density gradient centrifugation of RGSV nucleoproteins indicated that DR1L RNA is associated with the 28-kDa putative CP but not with the 36-kDa RGSV CP. Two additional ORFs for 15-kDa and 33-kDa proteins were present in DR1L RNA although their expression in plants and functions are not known.
11318155	Saddlepoint approximations for the computation of survival and hazard functions are introduced in the context of parametric survival analysis. Although these approximations are computationally fast, accurate, and relatively straightforward to implement, their use in survival analysis has been lacking. We approximate survival functions using the Lugannani and Rice saddlepoint approximation to the distribution function or by numerically integrating the saddlepoint density approximation. The hazard function is approximated using the saddlepoint density and distribution functions. The approximations are especially useful for consideration of survival and hazard functions for waiting times in complicated models. Examples include total or partial waiting times for a disease that progresses through various stages (convolutions of distributions).
11319010	alpha-Mannosidase (EC 3.2.1.24) from rice dry seeds was purified to homogeneity. Optimum pH and Km for pNP-alpha-Man hydrolysis were pH 4.3-4.5 and 1.04 mM, respectively. The enzyme digested mannobioses such as Manalpha-1,2Man, Manalpha-1,6Man, Manalpha-1,3Man but Manalpha-1,4Man. Zn2+ ion was required for the activity, whereas EDTA and swainsonine inhibited the activity by 80 and 96%, respectively. The rice storage protein, glutelin was prepared and its basic subunits were shown to have high mannose-type sugar chains by two-dimensional mapping using NH2-P and C18 silica columns. They were Man9GlcNAc2, Man8GlcNAc2, Man7GlcNAc2, Man6GlcNAc2 and Man5GlcNAc2. All these oligosaccharides were digested by the purified alpha-mannosidase, and Man-GlcNAc2 and mannose were formed. Glycopeptides, having these high mannose-type sugar chains, could also be digested by the alpha-mannosidase. Subunits were prepared from glutelin basic subunit and the richest subunit among them, subunit 2 (isoform 2), was digested by the alpha-mannosidase. Isoform 2 was digested by V8 protease only partially and slowly. However, isoform 2, pre-treated with the alpha-mannosidase, was rapidly and completely digested by V8 protease.
11319013	Dry seeds of anoxia-tolerant lotus (Nelumbo nucifera Gaertn=Nelumbium speciosum Willd.) have green shoots with plastids containing chlorophyll, so photosynthesis starts even in seedlings germinated under water, namely hypoxia. Here we investigated antioxidative enzyme changes in N. nucifera seedlings responding to oxygen deficiency. The activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD; EC 1.15.1.1), dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR; EC 1.8.5.1) and glutathione reductase (GR; EC 1.6.4.2) were lower in seedlings germinated under water (submerged condition) in darkness (SD seedlings) than those found in seedlings germinated in air and darkness (AD seedlings). In contrast, ascorbate peroxidase (APX; EC 1.11.1.11) activity was higher in SD seedlings and the activity of catalase (EC 1.11.1.6) and monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDAR; EC 1.6.5.4) in SD seedlings was nearly the same as in AD seedlings. When SD seedlings were exposed to air, the activity of SOD, DHAR and GR increased, while the activity of catalase and MDAR decreased. Seven electrophoretically distinct SOD isozymes were detectable in N. nucifera. The levels of plastidic Cu,Zn-SODs and Fe-SOD in SD seedlings were comparable with those found in AD seedlings, which may reflect the maintenance of green plastids in SD seedlings as well as in AD seedlings. These results were substantially different from those previously found in rice seedlings germinated under water.
11321536	The diversity of methanogen-specific methyl-coenzyme M reductase alpha-subunit (mcrA/mrtA) genes in Italian rice field soil was analysed using a combination of molecular techniques and enrichment cultures. From 75 mcrA/mrtA clones retrieved from rice field soil, 52 were related to members of the Methanosarcinaceae, Methanosaetaceae and Methanobacteriaceae. However, 19 and four clones formed two novel clusters of deeply branching mcrA sequences, respectively, which could not be affiliated to known methanogens. A new methanogen-specific fingerprinting assay based on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of fluorescently labelled polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products allowed us to distinguish all environmental mcrA/mrtA sequences via group-specific Sau96I restriction sites. Even genes for the isoenzyme methyl-coenzyme M reductase two (mrtA) of Methanobacteriaceae present in rice field soil were represented by a unique 470 bp terminal restriction fragment (T-RF). Both cloning and T-RFLP analysis indicated a significant representation of novel environmental mcrA sequences in rice field soil (238 bp T-RF). To identify these mcrA sequences, methanogenic enrichment cultures with rice field soil as inoculum were established with H2/CO2 as substrates at a temperature of 50 degrees C, and these were monitored using molecular tools. In subsequent transfers of these enrichment cultures, cloning and T-RFLP analysis detected predominantly SSU rRNA genes of rice cluster I (RC-I), an uncultivated euryarchaeotal lineage discovered previously in anoxic rice field soil. In parallel, both mcrA cloning and T-RFLP analyses of the enrichment culture identified the more frequent cluster of novel environmental mcrA sequences as belonging to members of RC-I. Thus, we could demonstrate the genotype and phenotype of RC-I Archaea by the presence of a catabolic gene in a methanogenic enrichment culture before the isolation of pure cultures.
11321819	We report the CT diagnosis of two cases of alimentary tract perforation caused by the ingestion of foreign bodies. The first case was a common fish bone perforation of the ileum with postoperative scar. The second case was a rare perforation caused by the impact of an uncooked rice cake on sigmoid colon diverticula. Helical CT scan clearly revealed the fish bone as a linear high-density area in the soft tissue between the right abdominal oblique muscles and ileum, and demonstrated the rice cake as high-density material in the bowel.
11322691	Sufu or furu is a fermented soybean product originating in China. It is a cheese-like product with a spreadable creamy consistency and a pronounced flavour. Sufu is a popular side dish consumed mainly with breakfast rice or steamed bread. It has a long history and written records date back to the Wei Dynasty (220-265 AD). Sufu is made by fungal solid state fermentation of tofu (soybean curd) followed by aging in brine containing salt and alcohol. The present review is based on scientific data published in Chinese and international sources. Several types of sufu can be distinguished, according to processing method or according to colour and flavour. Choice of processing can result in mould fermented sufu, naturally fermented sufu, bacterial fermented sufu, or enzymatically ripened sufu. Depending on the choice of dressing mixture, red, white or grey sufu may be obtained. The stages of the process are discussed and include the preparation of tofu, the preparation of pehtze, salting and ripening. Fungal starters include Actinomucor spp., Mucor spp. and Rhizopus spp. The chemical composition is discussed with particular reference to the proximate composition, the amino acid content and profile, as well as the volatile flavour components of various types of sufu.
11324160	Anther culture (AC) derived 160 doubled haploid (DH) families of an indica rice PTB 28 were field evaluated at Port Blair (lat 11 degrees.41'13.04"N; long 92 degrees 43'30.16"E), to assess the extent and range of induced variability among the androclones at segregating A2 generation and identify promising selectants for genetic improvement. Though the coefficient of variation (CV) for plant height was least (2.65%), majority of the androclones were shorter (81.7%). CV was high in case of panicle number per plant (24.59%) and tiller number per plant (28.28%), while it was maximum in respect of yield per plant (37.0%). Tiller and panicle number per plant registered maximum reduction compared to parent, however, displayed larger variations in double haploid (DH) lines. Out of 160 DH families, only 10 (6.3%) lines out-yielded the parent. Extreme types with wide variations were encountered which reaffirms the possibility of employing anther culture in rice improvement by restoring yield advantage in advanced generations or by tailoring them through recombination breeding.
11326981	Cereal polysaccharides can be broadly classified into two distinct and chemically well-defined types. They are the storage polysaccharides (alpha-glucan) and the structural polysaccharides starch (beta-glucan) which are usually called non-starch polysaccharides (NSP). The determination of soluble non-starch polysaccharides in rice and wheat bran by gas chromatography has been developed. The free sugars in the sample were extracted with 80% ethanol. The residue was hydrolyzed in an acetic acid buffer solution (pH 5.0) in the presence of amylase and amyloglucosidase to remove starch. The soluble NSP obtained was further hydrolyzed in the acidic condition to produce the corresponding monosaccharides which were derivatized to form alditol acetates for GC analysis with allose as the internal standard. The GC conditions were OV-1701 column (25 m x 0.3 mm) with temperature program from 195 degrees C to 225 degrees C and FID.
11327519	Some strains of Chinese red yeast rice, when prepared by solid fermentation, produce compounds called monacolins that inhibit cholesterol production. When used as a dietary supplement to achieve and maintain healthy cholesterol levels, Chinese red yeast rice has significant potential to reduce health care costs and contribute to public health by reducing heart disease risk in individuals with moderate elevations of circulating cholesterol levels. Whereas one proprietary strain of Chinese red yeast rice has been demonstrated to lower cholesterol levels significantly in clinical trials, other strains being sold as Chinese red yeast rice dietary supplements have not undergone similar evaluation. In order to determine whether the results of a clinical trial conducted with one strain of Chinese red yeast rice could be generalized to other preparations of Chinese red yeast rice, nine different commercially available dietary supplements were purchased tested for chemical constituents. Monacolins were measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) that separates the various monacolins in Chinese red yeast rice. Citrinin concentration, a toxic fermentation byproduct, was measured by radioimmunoassay. Total monacolin content varied from 0% to 0.58% w/w and only 1 of 9 preparations had the full complement of 10 monacolin compounds. Citrinin was found at measurable concentrations in 7 of the 9 preparations. The findings from clinical trials demonstrating significant and clinically relevant cholesterol reduction using a defined Chinese red yeast rice preparation containing 10 different monacolins cannot be generalized to preparations that do not contain the same levels and profile of monacolins. Standardized manufacturing practices should be established for Chinese red yeast rice sold as a dietary supplement in order ensure equivalence of content of active ingredients in preparations being sold to the public and to limit the production of unwanted byproducts of fermentation such as citrinin. In common with other botanical dietary supplements, the full potential of this product will not be realized until standards for production and labeling of Chinese red yeast rice are further developed.
11328648	A plant nuclear gene coding for a mitochondrial elongation factor G (mEF-G) was cloned from a cDNA library and genomic library of rice (Oryza sativa L.). This DNA sequence predicts a 757-amino-acid protein exhibiting 79%, 55% and 49% homology to Arabidopsis thaliana, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and rat mEF-G respectively, 53% homology to the elongation factor G in Escherichia coli and 43% homology to soybean chloroplast elongation factor G. The deduced amino acid sequence contains the characteristic motifs shared by all GTP binding proteins. Comparison of the sequence of the genomic clone to that of the cDNA clone revealed that this gene is split nineteen times by introns, although the gene of Arabidopsis is split seventeen times by introns. Some of the introns found in the rice genome are relatively long and they result in a long gene with a size of approximately 15 kb.
11329003
11329018	One of the widest ranging abiotic stresses in world agriculture arises from low iron (Fe) availability due to high soil pH, with 30% of arable land too alkaline for optimal crop production. Rice is especially susceptible to low iron supply, whereas other graminaceous crops such as barley are not. A barley genomic DNA fragment containing two naat genes, which encode crucial enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of phytosiderophores, was introduced into rice using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and pBIGRZ1. Phytosiderophores are natural iron chelators that graminaceous plants secrete from their roots to solubilize iron in the soil. The two transgenes were expressed in response to low iron nutritional status in both the shoots and roots of rice transformants. Transgenic rice expressing the two genes showed a higher nicotianamine aminotransferase activity and secreted larger amounts of phytosiderophores than nontransformants under iron-deficient conditions. Consequently, the transgenic rice showed an enhanced tolerance to low iron availability and had 4.1 times greater grain yields than that of the nontransformant rice in an alkaline soil.
11329876	Rice transformation mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens has technically matured to some extent, but the mechanics of T-DNA integration in transgenic rice remains largely unknown. Using thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (TAIL-PCR), we analyzed the flanking sequences of T-DNAs in transgenic rice plants, in which the resistance gene for rice bacterial blight disease, Xa21, had been integrated stably. Sequence analysis of 24 fragments amplified by TAIL-PCR showed that of them 14 were rice genomic DNA, 9 contained vector backbone sequences, and one was a fragment of the exogenous gene Xa21. The characteristics of the 14 rice genomic DNA sequences at T-DNA integrated sites are significantly different from those of the reported rice genomic sequences into which exogenous genes were integrated through direct DNA transformation methods. T-DNA border sequences integrated in rice genome have similar features as those integrated in dicotyledonous genomes. In the backbone containing flanking sequences (37.5%, 9/24) vector backbones appeared in different types.
11329877	The factors influencing the frequency of rice transformation mediated by Agrobacterium have been investigated by using 16 commercially important indica and japonica rice cultivars or lines. The main results were as following: For most rice CC medium was the best for both callus initiation and subculture. With supplement of 2.5-5 mg/L ABA the quality of calli can be improved. The concentration of selective agent for Indica rice callus was lower than that for japonica rice callus. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 was more efficient than LBA4404 and AGL1 for rice transformation. The inhibitive effect of cefotaxime to Agrobacterium was better than that of carbenicillin. The partial desiccation treatment after co-cultivation was beneficial to inhibit the growth of Agrobacterium and increase transformation efficiency. A stable and efficient Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system has been established in ten different rice cultivars and fertile transgenic plants have been obtained.
11330685	A polymorphism in rice amylases at an early stage of seed germination is analyzed by zymogram. In non-glutinous cultivars of rice, alpha-amylase isozymes are mainly confirmed in germinating seeds. However, in glutinous cultivars, beta-amylase isozymes, which are not confirmed in nonglutinous cultivars, make up the major part of the total amylase activity and the expression of alpha-amylases are repressed.
113319
11332731	The avirulence gene AVR-Pita in Magnaporthe grisea prevents the fungus from infecting rice cultivars carrying the disease resistance gene Pi-ta. Insertion of Pot3 transposon into the promoter of AVR-Pita caused the gain of virulence toward Yashiro-mochi, a rice cultivar containing Pi-ta, which demonstrated the ability of Pot3 to move within the M. grisea genome. The appearance of Pot3 in M. grisea seems to predate the diversification of various host-specific forms of the fungus.
11332734	Identification of host genes involved in defense responses is one of most critical steps leading to the elucidation of disease resistance mechanisms in plants. In this study, two different cloning strategies were employed to identify defense-related genes from a tropical japonica rice cultivar (Oryza sativa cv. Drew). With the use of bacterial colony arrays, differential screening of a blast fungus (Pyricularia grisea)-induced rice cDNA library led to the isolation of 22 distinct rice genes that are expressed differentially in response to blast infection. Sequence analysis indicates that most of them are full-length cDNAs encoding pathogenesis-related proteins or other relatively abundant proteins. In combination with treatments of cycloheximide plus jasmonic acid (JA) or benzothiadiazole (BTH) in rice seedlings, the polymerase chain reaction-based suppression subtractive hybridization also was conducted to search for immediate early (IE) defense-related genes whose transcription is independent of de novo protein synthesis. The initial screening of only 768 subtracted clones resulted in the identification of 34 distinct IE genes that are induced by JA, BTH, and/or blast infection. Database searches revealed that these IE genes encode putative mitogen-activated protein kinase, diacylglycerol kinase, zinc finger protein, RelA-SpoT protein, ankyrin-containing protein, ABC transporter, beta-ketoacyl-CoA synthase, and other potential defense-signaling components. Further characterization of these novel IE genes will likely facilitate the elucidation of defense signal transduction in rice plants.
11332833	Aphid (Homoptera: Aphididae) seasonal flight activity and abundance in wheat, Triticum aestivum L., and the significance of aphid species as vectors of barley yellow dwarf virus were studied over a nine-year period in the South Carolina coastal plain. Four aphid species colonized wheat in a consistent seasonal pattern. Greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), and rice root aphid, Rhopalosiphum rufiabdominalis (Sasaki), colonized seedlingwheat immediately after crop emergence, with apterous colonies usually peaking in December or January and then declining for the remainder of the season. These two aphid species are unlikely to cause economic loss on wheat in South Carolina, thus crop managers should not have to sample for the subterranean R. rufiabdominalis colonies. Bird cherry-oat aphid, Rhopalosiphum padi (L.), was the second most abundant species and the most economically important. Rhopalosiphum padi colonies usually remained below 10/row-meter until peaking in February or March. Barley yellow dwarf incidence and wheat yield loss were significantly correlated with R. padi peak abundance and aphid-day accumulation on the crop. Based on transmission assays, R. padi was primarily responsible for vectoring the predominant virus serotype (PAV) we found in wheat. Pest management efforts should focus on sampling for and suppressing this aphid species. December planting reduced aphid-day accumulation and barley yellow dwarf incidence, but delayed planting is not a practical management option. English grain aphid, Sitobion avenae (F.), was the last species to colonize wheat each season, and the most abundant. Sitobion avenae was responsible for late-season virus transmission and caused direct yield loss by feeding on heads and flag leaves during an outbreak year.
11333044	The microbial degradation and temperature rise during the composting of a cattle waste and rice straw mixture blended with tofu (soybean curd) residue was investigated using an insulated and unheated in-vessel composter (effective volume, 12 1) and a static pile with passive aeration. The addition of 11% (dry weight basis) of tofu residue shortened the time required for temperature to reach the thermophilic phase and increased the duration of the temperatures above 55 degrees C significantly, but the maximum temperature was not affected by the additive level. As shown by the change in BOD, most of the easily biodegradable matter in the tofu residue was consumed during 12 days of composting. The same results were observed in the temperature profile of the static pile with passive aeration. Tofu residue addition yielded a higher maximum temperature and a nearly two times longer duration of temperatures above 55 degrees C in almost all locations of the pile. The use of tofu residue as a co-composting material would promote thermophilic degradation throughout the entire composting mass.
11333045	Rice hull ash (RHA) of large surface area was obtained by acid wash and then calcination at 600 degrees C for 4 h. The white ash was then mixed with kaolin and starch to make pellet adsorbents with reasonable strength to be utilized in a packed column. Both ash and pellet samples showed good adsorption capacities toward the organic substances in wastewater. Furthermore, the surface nature of the white ash and pellet adsorbent could be modified through either hydration or esterification reactions. Corresponding changes in silanol concentrations were successfully correlated to changes in adsorption capacity toward either Congo red or vacuum pump oil molecules.
11333304	cDNA clones encoding an isoform of starch branching enzyme, RBE4, have been identified from a developing rice seed cDNA library, using a synthetic oligonucleotide probe corresponding to the N-terminal amino acid sequence of RBE4. The cDNA-derived amino acid sequence indicated that RBE4 is initially produced as a precursor protein of 841 amino acids, including a 53-residue transit peptide at the N-terminus. The mature form of RBE4 shared a high degree of sequence identity (80%) with mature RBE3, and possessed an N-terminal extra sequence, as found in RBE3. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that the RBE4 gene is expressed in both leaves and developing seeds. The RBE4 gene was distinguished from the RBE1 and RBE3 genes by expression at the earlier stages of seed development. To examine enzymatic functions of RBE4, recombinant proteins were produced in Escherichia coli cells, and purified by two chromatographic separations. The branched alpha-glucans produced by the recombinant enzymes from potato amylose revealed the different patterns of oligosaccharide chain transfer. The peak of major branches of the products by RBE3 or RBE4 was 6 glucose units, whereas the peaks of major branches of the products by RBE1 were 6 and 11 glucose units. The similar property between RBE3 and RBE4 is supported by high similarity of the amino acid sequences between them.
11335767	It is widely appreciated that health food beverages are not appropriate for infants. Because of continued growth, children beyond infancy remain susceptible to nutritional disorders. We report on 2 cases of severe nutritional deficiency caused by consumption of health food beverages. In both cases, the parents were well-educated, appeared conscientious, and their children received regular medical care. Diagnoses were delayed by a low index of suspicion. In addition, nutritional deficiencies are uncommon in the United States and as a result, US physicians may be unfamiliar with their clinical features. Case 1, a 22-month-old male child, was admitted with severe kwashiorkor. He was breastfed until 13 months of age. Because of a history of chronic eczema and perceived milk intolerance, he was started on a rice beverage after weaning. On average, he consumed 1.5 L of this drink daily. Intake of solid foods was very poor. As this rice beverage, which was fallaciously referred to as rice milk, is extremely low in protein content, the resulting daily protein intake of 0.3 g/kg/day was only 25% of the recommended dietary allowance. In contrast, caloric intake was 72% of the recommended energy intake, so the dietary protein to energy ratio was very low. A photograph of the patient after admission illustrates the typical features of kwashiorkor: generalized edema, hyperpigmented and hypopigmented skin lesions, abdominal distention, irritability, and thin, sparse hair. Because of fluid retention, the weight was on the 10th percentile and he had a rotund sugar baby appearance. Laboratory evaluation was remarkable for a serum albumin of 1.0 g/dL (10 g/L), urea nitrogen <0.5 mg/dL (<0.2 mmol/L), and a normocytic anemia with marked anisocytosis. Evaluation for other causes of hypoalbuminemia was negative. Therapy for kwashiorkor was instituted, including gradual refeeding, initially via a nasogastric tube because of severe anorexia. Supplements of potassium, phosphorus, multivitamins, zinc, and folic acid were provided. The patient responded dramatically to refeeding with a rising serum albumin and total resolution of the edema within 3 weeks. At follow-up 1 year later he continued to do well on a regular diet supplemented with a milk-based pediatric nutritional supplement. The mortality of kwashiorkor remains high, because of complications such as infection (kwashiorkor impairs cellular immune defenses) and electrolyte imbalances with ongoing diarrhea. Children in industrialized countries have developed kwashiorkor resulting from the use of a nondairy creamer as a milk alternative, but we were unable to find previous reports of kwashiorkor caused by a health food milk alternative. We suspect that cases have been overlooked. Case 2, a 17-month-old black male, was diagnosed with rickets. He was full-term at birth and was breastfed until 10 months of age, when he was weaned to a soy health food beverage, which was not fortified with vitamin D or calcium. Intake of solid foods was good, but included no animal products. Total daily caloric intake was 114% of the recommended dietary allowance. Dietary vitamin D intake was essentially absent because of the lack of vitamin D-fortified milk. The patient lived in a sunny, warm climate, but because of parental career demands, he had limited sun exposure. His dark complexion further reduced ultraviolet light-induced endogenous skin synthesis of vitamin D. The patient grew and developed normally until after his 9-month check-up, when he had an almost complete growth arrest of both height and weight. The parents reported regression in gross motor milestones. On admission the patient was unable to crawl or roll over. He could maintain a sitting position precariously when so placed. Conversely, his language, fine motor-adaptive, and personal-social skills were well-preserved. Generalized hypotonia, weakness, and decreased muscle bulk were present. Clinical features of rickets present on examination included: frontal bossing, an obvious rachitic rosary (photographed), genu varus, flaring of the wrists, and lumbar kyphoscoliosis. The serum alkaline phosphatase was markedly elevated (1879 U/L), phosphorus was low (1.7 mg/dL), and calcium was low normal (8.9 mg/dL). The 25-hydroxy-vitamin D level was low (7.7 pg/mL) and the parathyroid hormone level was markedly elevated (114 pg/mL). The published radiographs are diagnostic of advanced rickets, showing diffuse osteopenia, frayed metaphyses, widened epiphyseal plates, and a pathologic fracture of the ulna. The patient was treated with ergocalciferol and calcium supplements. The published growth chart demonstrates the dramatic response to therapy. Gross motor milestones were fully regained within 6 months. The prominent neuromuscular manifestations shown by this patient serve as a reminder that rickets should be considered in the differential diagnosis of motor delay. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
11336414	Soil to plant transfer factor (TF) of 60Co and 65Zn was determined from radioisotope experiments on plants grown in pots under outdoor ambient tropical conditions for three growing seasons (1995-1998). The TFs were obtained for different plants/crops such as, rice, bean, peanuts pineapple, cabbage, tomato, spinach and grass. The average TF values of 60Co are found to be 0.087. 0.15, 0.12, 0.67, 0.28, 0.79, 1.03 and 0.34 respectively for the above mentioned plants/crops. In case of 65Zn, the average TF values are found to be 2.24, 1.17. 0.89, 1.09, 0.78, 1.34, 2.92 and 1.78, respectively, for the above mentioned plants/crops. The data will be useful to assess the radiation exposure to man associated with the releases of radionuclides from nuclear facilities by means of radiological assessment models that require transfer factors as input parameters to predict the contamination of radionuclides in foodchain.
11337066	We have studied the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide in rice leaves in response to salicylic acid (SA) treatment. H(2)O(2) accumulation was localized in the veins. While the activity of the H(2)O(2) degrading enzyme peroxidase was inhibited in response to SA, superoxide dismutase activity, which generates H(2)O(2), did not show any change. An increase in the activity of glutathione reductase, a peroxide degrading enzyme, was observed upon SA treatment, similar to the response reported by accumulation of active oxygen species. In rice leaves transformed with CaMV-GUS fusions, we found that SA treatment induced transcriptional activation through as-1 element. As-1 has been implicated in protective mechanisms that operate during some types of oxidative stress and the hypersensitive response (HR). Expression of rice pathogenesis-related protein 5 (PR5), one of the PR genes associated with systemic acquired resistance, was induced by SA. This induction seems to be independent of the H(2)O(2) accumulation induced by SA. Inoculation of rice leaves with the rice blast fungus, Magneporthe grisea, also led to the accumulation of H(2)O(2) in the veins, suggesting the presence of common signals between SA and pathogen responses. Thus SA application seems to induce oxidative stress in rice through H(2)O(2); a signal molecule implicated in biotic and abiotic stress responses.
11337074	Salinity exerted a distinctly differential effect on fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (EC. 3.1.3.11) isolated from salt-sensitive and salt-tolerant rice (Oryza sativa) varieties. Cytosolic and chloroplastic isoforms of the enzyme from salt-sensitive rice seedlings exhibited decreased catalytic activity during growth in the presence of salt. Furthermore, chloroplastic fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase purified from salt-sensitive (O. sativa cv. IR26) and from the wild halophytic rice Porteresia coarctata differed in their in vitro salt tolerance property although they exhibited otherwise identical biochemical and immunological properties. This decline in enzyme activity was not correlated with de novo synthesis of the chloroplastic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase protein in the presence of salt. The inhibitory effect of increasing concentration of NaCl on in vitro enzymatic activity could be prevented by preincubation of the enzyme with a number of osmolytes with an effectiveness in the order polyol>sugars. Further, the intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence of the purified rice enzyme is altered in vitro with increasing NaCl concentration which could be prevented by preincubation with inositol. Purified chloroplastic fructose-1.6-bisphosphatase from P. coarctata however, exhibits no such inhibition of enzyme activity in vitro or alteration in tryptophan fluorescence with increasing NaCl concentration.
11337400	The majority of terrestrial plants, including many important crops such as rice, wheat, soybean, and potato, are classified as C3 plants that assimilate atmospheric CO2 directly through the C3 photosynthetic pathway. C4 plants such as maize and sugarcane evolved from C3 plants, acquiring the C4 photosynthetic pathway to achieve high photosynthetic performance and high water- and nitrogen-use efficiencies. The recent application of recombinant DNA technology has made considerable progress in the molecular engineering of C4 photosynthesis over the past several years. It has deepened our understanding of the mechanism of C4 photosynthesis and provided valuable information as to the evolution of the C4 photosynthetic genes. It also has enabled us to express enzymes involved in the C4 pathway at high levels and in desired locations in the leaves of C3 plants for engineering of primary carbon metabolism.
11337706	Rice bodies are free corpuscles of synovial origin with a cartilage-like appearance that may reach hundreds in number in the intra-articular space. Rheumatologic or infectious pathologies that may produce synovial hypertrophy play a major role in the etiology. Already recognized by rheumatologists, this entity is rarely reported in orthopaedic literature. Numerous particles in the size and form of rice bodies were noted in the knee joint of an 11-year-old patient who underwent arthroscopic drainage and partial synovectomy. Histopathologic examination showed that some of the rice bodies consisted only of fibrin and some of them included a collagenous nucleus surrounded by a fibrin layer. No evidence of recurrence was observed by orthopaedic and rheumatologic evaluations within 2.5 years after the arthroscopic procedure.
11337886	Fipronil insecticide dissipated in California rice fields, producing half-lives of 10.5 to 125 h in water and 44.5 to 533 h in soil, depending on the formulation applied and the resulting differences in water solubility. The major degradation products were desthiofipronil in water and fipronil-sulfide in soil, while the sulfone and amide were less abundant. Fipronil was photolyzed rapidly to desthiofipronil in deionized water in the laboratory (t1/2 = 7.97-9.42 h) and even faster in the presence of H2O2 (t1/2 = 0.874-4.51 h). Fipronil was also hydrolyzed to amide in base (t1/2 = 542 h at pH 9) and volatilized slowly from water (H = 6.60 x 10(-6) m3.atm/mol), properties not explaining its rapid field water dissipation. Desthiofipronil was more stable than fipronil to direct photolysis (t1/2 = 120-149 h), was indirectly photolyzed in the presence of H2O2 (t1/2 = 0.853-3.76 h), and was nonvolatile from water. The desthiofipronil observed in field water was formed photochemically from fipronil, accumulated due to slower photolysis and lack of volatility from water, but eventually dissipated.
11340093	The influence of white, red and black rice consumption on atherosclerotic plaque formation induced by hypercholesterolemia was investigated in rabbits. Male rabbits (n = 36) were divided into five groups. They were fed a normal laboratory purified diet (normal group, n = 6), a high cholesterol (0.5 g/100 g) diet (HC group, n = 6), a high cholesterol diet with 30 g/100 g white rice (WR group, n = 8), 30 g/100 g red rice (RR group, n = 8), or 30 g/100 g black rice (BR group, n = 8) for 10 wk. Blood samples were collected for lipid measurements and aorta were removed for assessment of atherosclerotic plaques at the end of the protocol. The oxidant and antioxidant status of blood, erythrocytes, liver and aorta was evaluated. The area of atherosclerotic plaque was 50% lower in rabbits fed the red or black rice diets than in those fed the white rice diet. Compared with the HC and WR groups, serum HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein (apo) A-I concentration were greater (P < 0.05) in the RR and BR groups. Liver reactive oxygen species (ROS) and aortic malondialdehyde (MDA) were significantly lower, and the liver total antioxidative capacity (TAC) and erythrocyte superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were significantly higher in the RR and BR groups compared with the HC and WR groups. Red or black rice consumption reduced or retarded the progression of atherosclerotic plaque development induced by dietary cholesterol. The enhanced serum HDL cholesterol and apo A-I concentrations, and the increased antioxidant and decreased oxidative status may be mechanisms of the antiatherogenic effect of red or black rice.
11340104	Dry beans lower plasma cholesterol, an effect that has been associated with both the fiber and the protein content of beans. The objective of this study was to determine the acute hormone and lipid responses to a test meal that contained dry beans as a source of dietary fiber. A crossover design was employed in which men consumed the test meal and a control meal in random order. Both meals contained egg, bread, jelly, orange juice, milk and margarine. The high fiber meal contained white beans, whereas the low fiber (control) meal contained rice and dry milk. The men maintained their normal dietary pattern and fasted overnight before the study days. After a fasting blood sample was drawn, the men consumed the test meal and blood samples were collected over the next 6 h. Blood samples were analyzed for cholecystokinin (CCK), insulin and glucose. Plasma was separated into lipoprotein fractions and the triglyceride, cholesterol, apolipoprotein (apo) B100 and B48 content of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins determined. Insulin and glucose responses did not differ significantly between test meals; however, the CCK response was twice as high after the bean-containing meal than after the low fiber meal (P = 0.03). The increase in apo B48 concentration was significantly higher after the bean meal than after the low fiber meal (P < 0.05). Adding beans to a meal to increase fiber content prolongs the postprandial presence of intestinally derived lipoproteins and augments the CCK response to the meal.
11340177	The rice slender mutant (slr1-1) is caused by a single recessive mutation and results in a constitutive gibberellin (GA) response phenotype. The mutant elongates as if saturated with GAs. In this mutant, (1) elongation was unaffected by an inhibitor of GA biosynthesis, (2) GA-inducible alpha-amylase was produced by the aleurone layers without gibberellic acid application, and (3) endogenous GA content was lower than in the wild-type plant. These results indicate that the product of the SLR1 gene is an intermediate of the GA signal transduction pathway. SLR1 maps to OsGAI in rice and has significant homology with height-regulating genes, such as RHT-1Da in wheat, D8 in maize, and GAI and RGA in Arabidopsis. The GAI gene family is likely to encode transcriptional factors belonging to the GRAS gene superfamily. DNA sequence analysis revealed that the slr1-1 mutation is a single basepair deletion of the nuclear localization signal domain, resulting in a frameshift mutation that abolishes protein production. Furthermore, introduction of a 6-kb genomic DNA fragment containing the wild-type SLR1 gene into the slr1-1 mutant restored GA sensitivity to normal. These results indicate that the slr1-1 mutant is caused by a loss-of-function mutation of the SLR1 gene, which is an ortholog of GAI, RGA, RHT, and D8. We also succeeded in producing GA-insensitive dwarf rice by transforming wild-type rice with a modified SLR1 gene construct that has a 17-amino acid deletion affecting the DELLA region. Thus, we demonstrate opposite GA response phenotypes depending on the type of mutations in SLR1.
11340194	In the C4 plant maize, three photosynthetic cell types differentiate: C4 bundle sheath, C4 mesophyll, and C3 mesophyll cells. C3 mesophyll cells represent the ground state, whereas C4 bundle sheath and C4 mesophyll cells are specialized cells that differentiate in response to light-induced positional signals. The Golden2 (G2) gene regulates plastid biogenesis in all photosynthetic cells during the C3 stages of development. However, G2 function is specifically committed to the differentiation of bundle sheath cell chloroplasts in C4 leaf blades. In this article, we report the isolation of G2-like (Glk) genes from maize and rice, providing evidence for a family of Glk genes in plants. The expression profiles of the rice Glk genes suggest that these genes may act redundantly to promote photosynthetic development in this C3 species. In maize, G2 and ZmGlk1 transcripts accumulate primarily in C4 bundle sheath and C4 mesophyll cells, respectively, suggesting a specific role for each gene in C4 differentiation. We show that G2 and ZmGLK1 both can transactivate reporter gene transcription and dimerize in yeast, which supports the idea that these proteins act as transcriptional regulators of cell-type differentiation processes.
11341689	A. niger cellulase was crosslinked by glutaraldehyde to obtain a heat-stable enzyme preparation for rice hull cellulose hydrolysis. Under optimized crosslinking conditions of 0.12 M glutaraldehyde, pH 7.0, temperature 40 degrees C and at 45 min of crosslinking, a preparation having 15% more activity than free enzyme was obtained which also had considerable improvement in heat stability at 65 degrees C and 70 degrees C. Whereas the free enzyme lost 80% of its activity in 4 h at 65 degrees C, the crosslinked preparation lost only 30% activity. The crosslinked preparation hydrolyzed cellulosic biomass more effectively giving 2.2 mg/ml glucose and 52% corresponding saccharification in 4 h at 65 degrees C as compared to 14% saccharification by free enzyme under similar conditions.
11341737	A diminutive rye chromosome (midget) in wheat was used as a model system to isolate a highly reiterated centromeric sequence from a rye chromosome. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) shows this sequence localized within all rye centromeres and no signal was detected on wheat chromosomes. DNA sequencing of the repetitive element has revealed the presence of some catalytic domains and signature motifs typical of retrotransposon genes and has been called the Bilby family, representing a diverged family of retrotransposon-like elements. Extensive DNA database searching revealed some sequence similarity to centromeric retrotransposons from wheat, barley, and centromeric repetitive sequences from rice. Very low levels of signal were observed when Bilby was used as a probe against barley, and no signal was detected with rice DNA during Southern hybridization. The abundance of Bilby in rye indicates that this family may have diverged from other distantly related centromeric retrotransposons or incorporated in the centromere but rapidly evolved in rye during speciation. The isolation of a rye retrotransposon also allowed the analysis of centromeric breakpoints in wheat-rye translocation lines. A quantitative analysis shows that the breakpoint in IDS.1RL and 1DL.1RS and recombinant lines containing proximal rye chromatin have a portion of the rye centromere that may contribute to the normal function of the centromeric region.
11342250	The action of pancreatic alpha-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) on various starches has been studied in order to achieve better understanding of how starch structural properties influence enzyme kinetic parameters. Such studies are important in seeking explanations for the wide differences reported in postprandial glycaemic and insulinaemic indices associated with different starchy foodstuffs. Using starches from a number of different sources, in both native and gelatinised forms, as substrates for porcine alpha-amylase, we showed by enzyme kinetic studies that adsorption of amylase to starch is of kinetic importance in the reaction mechanism, so that the relationship between reaction velocity and enzyme concentration [E0] is logarithmic and described by the Freundlich equation. Estimations of catalytic efficiencies were derived from measurements of kcat/Km performed with constant enzyme concentration so that comparisons between different starches were not complicated by the logarithmic relationship between E0 and reaction velocity. Such studies reveal that native starches from normal and waxy rice are slightly better substrates than those from wheat and potato. After gelatinisation at 100 degrees C, kcat/Km values increased by 13-fold (waxy rice) to 239-fold (potato). Phosphate present in potato starch may aid the swelling process during heating of suspensions; this seems to produce a very favourable substrate for the enzyme. Investigation of pre-heat treatment effects on wheat starch shows that the relationship between treatment and kcat/Km is not a simple one. The value of kcat/Km rises to reach a maximum at a pre-treatment temperature of 75 degrees C and then falls sharply if the treatment is conducted at higher temperatures. It is known that amylose is leached from starch granules during heating and dissolves. On cooling, the dissolved starch is likely to retrograde and become resistant to amylolysis. Thus the catalytic efficiency tends to fall. In addition, we find that the catalytic efficiency on the different starches varies inversely with their solubility and we interpret this finding on the assumption that the greater the solubility, the greater is the likelihood of retrogradation. We conclude that although alpha-amylase is present in high activity in digestive fluid, the enzymic hydrolysis of starch may be a limiting factor in carbohydrate digestion because of factors related to the physico-chemical properties of starchy foods.
11345461	Brazilian textile mills import wastewater treatment technologies, performances of which are generally evaluated only on a physicochemical basis. Thus, a battery of bioassays was used to evaluate the performance of an ozonation system to treat textile effluents. Comparative toxicological profiles for bacteria (Vibrio fischeri), algae (Scenedesmus subspicatus), daphnia (Daphnia magna), fish (Poecilia reticulata), and plants (soybean--Glycine max, rice--Oryza sativa, and wheat--Triticum aestivum), as well as genotoxic effects (Vicia faba micronucleus assay), are presented for both raw and ozonated textile effluents. The relative sensitivity of bioassays (or end points) to textile effluents found in this study in decreasing order was plant enzymes > bacteria > algae daphnids approximately = plant biomass approximately = germination rate > fish. No significant genotoxic effect was found. We have concluded that ozonation was relatively effective in reducing toxicity of textile effluents. Bioassays used in this study proved to be sensitive and reliable tools for determining the toxicity of industrial effluents, and thus they can be used to evaluate emerging technology efficiency.
11345550	Fluorescent pseudomonads were a major component [log (10) 4.2-6.1 colony-forming units mL-1] of the culturable heterotrophic gram-negative bacterioplankton observed in three Mississippi Delta oxbow lakes in this study. Pure cultures of fluorescent pseudomonads were isolated from three Mississippi Delta oxbow lakes (18 per lake), using selective media S-1. Classical physiological tests and Biolog GN plates were used in criteria for taxonomic identification. Most isolates were identified as biotypes of Pseudomonas fluorescens 55% (II), 7% (III), and 25% (V). About 7% of the isolates were identified as P. putida and 7% as non-fluorescent Pseudomonas-like. Cell suspensions of these isolates were tested for their ability to metabolize/co-metabolize six 14C-radiolabeled herbicides (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), cyanazine, fluometuron, metolachlor, propanil, and trifluralin) that are commonly used for crop production in this geographical area. Almost all (53 of 54) isolates transformed trifluralin via aromatic nitroreduction. Most isolates (70%) dechlorinated metolachlor to polar metabolites via glutathione conjugation. About 60% of the isolates hydrolyzed the amide bond of propanil (a rice herbicide) to dichloroaniline, with the highest frequency of propanil-hydrolyzing isolates observed in the lake from the watershed with rice cultivation. All propanil-hydrolyzing isolates were identified as P. fluorescens biotype II. No metabolism of cyanazine or fluometuron was observed by any isolates tested, indicating little or no potential for N-dealkylation among this group of bacterioplankton. No mineralization of 2,4-D labeled in either the carboxyl or ring position was observed. These results indicate that reductive and hydrolytic pathways for herbicide co-metabolism (aromatic nitroreduction, aryl acylamidase, and glutathione conjugation) are common in Mississippi Delta aquatic fluorescent pseudomonads; however, the potential for certain oxidative transformations (N-dealkylation, cyano group oxidation) may be rare in this group of bacterioplankton.
11346462	The inhibitory influence of ferulic acid (FA), a rice germ component, and its geranylated derivative 3-(4'-geranyloxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-2-propenoate (EGMP) on the post-initiation stage of azoxymethane (AOM)-induced colon carcinogenesis was studied in male F344 rats given two s.c. injections of AOM (15 mg / kg body weight) during week 1. Diets containing EGMP or FA at doses of 0.1 or 0.2% were then fed for 3 weeks from week 2 to 5, when the animals were sacrificed. The numbers of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) and aberrant crypts (AC) per rat in the group given 0.2% FA were significantly decreased (P < 0.001) as compared to the AOM alone group. Furthermore, the numbers of ACF and AC per rat fed the 0.2% and 0.1% EGMP were significantly reduced (P < 0.001 and P < 0.01, respectively). Colonic epithelial cells in S-phase, as measured by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, in rats fed EGMP were significantly decreased in the 0.2 and 0.1% EGMP groups as compared to the AOM alone group (P < 0.05). BrdU labeling indices in rats fed FA and EGMP assessed by a test using a coefficient for linear contrast were also significantly decreased as compared to the AOM alone value (P < 0.05, P < 0.01, respectively). The results indicate that FA and EGMP have inhibitory effects on ACF and AC development, EGMP being more potent, possibly due to stronger suppressive effects on cell proliferation. No toxic effects were observed in rats given either compound in terms of body and organ weights, and liver or kidney histology. The findings thus suggest that EGMP and FA, especially the former, might have potential as chemopreventive agents against colon tumor development.
11346963	We proposed that an Fe-deficiency-induced gene, Ids3 (Iron deficiency specific clone no. 3), from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) roots encodes a dioxygenase that catalyzes the hydroxylation step from 2'-deoxymugineic acid (DMA) to mugineic acid (MA). To prove this hypothesis, we introduced the Ids3 gene into rice (Oryza sativa L.), which lacks Ids3 homologues and secretes DMA, but not MA. Transgenic rice plants, carrying either Ids3 cDNA or a barley genomic DNA fragment (20 kb) containing Ids3, were obtained using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Ids3 cDNA under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter was constitutively expressed in both the roots and the leaves of the transgenic rice, regardless of Fe nutrition status. In contrast, in the roots of transformants carrying a barley genomic fragment, transcripts of Ids3 were markedly increased in response to Fe deficiency. Slight expression of Ids3 was also observed in the leaves of the Fe-deficient plants. Western blot analysis confirmed the induction of Ids3 in response to Fe deficiency in the roots of the transformants carrying a genomic fragment. These expression patterns indicate that the 5'-flanking region of Ids3 works as a strong Fe-deficiency-inducible promoter in rice, as well as in barley. Both kinds of transgenic rice secreted MA in addition to DMA under Fe-deficient conditions, but wild-type rice secreted only DMA. This is in vivo evidence that IDS3 is the "MA synthase" that converts DMA to MA.
11347293	One hundred and seventy four human subjects were studied to find out the interaction of vitamin A or beta-carotene with the inhibitors of iron absorption, from a basal breakfast containing bread from either 100 g of precooked corn flour or 100 g of white wheat flour, 50 g of cheese and 10 g of margarine. Bread was labeled with either 55Fe or 59Fe. This bread was made from commercially flours fortified with iron as ferrous fumarate and vitamins. It was noticed that the percentage of iron absorption from the breakfast prepared with precooked corn flour given alone and with different concentrations of coffee was practically the same, while the iron absorption from the breakfast prepared from wheat flour decreased from 6% when the breakfast was given alone, to less than 2% when it was given with different concentrations of coffee. The only ingredient present in precooked corn flour and not in wheat flour was vitamin A. This difference encouraged the authors to perform further experiments using precooked corn and wheat flours fortified only with ferrous fumarate. These studies demonstrated that vitamin A inhibits the effect of the polyphenol and partially inhibits the effect phytate on iron absorption. HPLC and spectrophotometric studies demonstrated an interaction between vitamin A and iron. Other experiments, which included 100 volunteers, were performed to test the effect of vitamin A and beta-carotene on iron absorption from corn, wheat and rice. The presence of vitamin A increased iron absorption up to 3 times for rice, 2.4 times for wheat and 1.8 times for corn. beta-carotene increased absorption almost 3 times for the three cereals tested, showing that both compounds were capable of preventing the inhibitory effect of phytates on iron absorption. This information suggest that vitamin A and beta-carotene form a complex with iron keeping it soluble in the intestinal lumen and preventing the inhibitory effect of phytates and polyphenols on iron absorption.
11347296	Cereals are rich in fiber but also in phytate which is considered the principal inhibitor of mineral availability. On this basis, iron availability of fortified rice, and the inhibitory effect of bran phytate was studied in: white rice fortified with electrolytic iron (ABF) from commercial origin; and mixtures of ABF plus 4.76% and 9.09% of rice bran (ABF2 and ABF3 respectively) to simulate brown rice. Samples were analysed before and after phytic acid hydrolysis with phytase: Dietary fiber and phytic acid were assessed according AOAC; iron availability, expressed as dialisable iron by the in vitro method of Kapsokefalou and Miller modified by Valencia et al.; iron content was assessed by AAS. Results showed that added bran depressed iron availability, 9.65%; 4.04% and 1.82% as expected (ABF, ABF2 and ABF3 respectively). After phytic acid hydrolysis iron availability reached 28.20%; 27.95% and 25.30% for the same samples. These values were not different. After phytic acid hydrolysis, fiber content of ABF2 and ABF3 were lower than before. However multiple regression analysis of the data showed that fiber had not influence on iron availability and that phytic acid would be the principal responsible of it. These results indicate that brown rice should have a higher level of iron fortification than in white rice or be combined with other foods that improve iron availability as meats, vegetables or fruits.
11347904	The COP1 (CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC 1) gene has been identified earlier from dicot species namely Arabidopsis, tomato and pea. The protein encoded by this gene acts as a molecular switch that negatively regulates the transition from the skotomorphogenic to the photomorphogenic mode of plant development. We have isolated and characterized the COP1 homolog from a monocot species, i.e. rice (var. Pusa Basmati 1). All the functional domains (Zn-binding RING finger motif, coiled-coil region, WD-40 repeats, cytoplasmic/nuclear localization sequences and protein-protein interaction domains) that are known in the COP1 proteins from dicots are conserved in COP1 from rice as well. The transcript levels of COP1 vary in various tissues of the rice plant. These variations were found to be development-dependent and do not solely depend on the light conditions.
11349847	Little is known of the environmental fate of the aryltriazolinone herbicide carfentrazone-ethyl (compound I). Rice field applications of Shark 40D commercial formulation to duplicate 5.7 m2 rings (119 g a.i./ha) and 464 m2 commercial basins (224 g a.i./ha) produced pseudo-first-order half-lives (t1/2) of 6.5 to 11.1 h in water and 37.9 to 174 h in sediment. The rapid dissipation from water was due to its hydrolysis to the chloropropionic acid (compound II), which further degraded to its propionic, cinnamic, and benzoic acids. Compound I degraded similarly in soil, but propionic and cinnamic acid levels were higher. Compound I was only weakly adsorbed, but lateral movement of compound II through soil occurred. Laboratory hydrolysis produced quantitative yields of compound II, t1/2 values of 131 h at pH 7 and 3.36 h at pH 9, and slow dissipation at pH 5 (43% at 830 h). Ultraviolet (UV) irradiation of compound I in pH 7 buffer gave dissipation rates similar to those in dark controls (t1/2 113 h vs 128 h), while compound II was comparatively stable to photolysis (t1/2 765 h) and also did not volatilize from water. Ester hydrolysis followed by off-site movement of the acid (compound II) account for the dissipation of compound I.
11350544	The prevalence of duodenal ulcer is less in the northern wheat-eating regions of India and China than in the southern rice-eating areas. Experiments were conducted on rat peptic ulcer models in which controls were fed on either known ulcerogenic rice or rice plus tapioca diets or on non-ulcerogenic stock diet. By using an ulcerogenic diet and pyloric ligation, unrefined wheat, wheat bran and their respective oils were protective against ulceration. Refined wheat, wheat germ and its oil were not protective. Freshly milled rice and unmilled rice were protective, but stored rice bran and its oil increased the ulceration. Fresh rice bran oil was not ulcerogenic, but on storage, it became ulcerogenic. By using stock diet and alcohol-induced ulceration, the findings with whole wheat oil, wheat bran and wheat germ oil were confirmed. Rats fed on the stock diet subjected to pyloric ligation developed ulcers following intragastric injection of stored rice bran oil. This ulcerogenicity was counteracted by whole wheat oil. These results suggest that the factor of diet may well explain the regional differences in the prevalence of duodenal ulceration between North and South India and China where other etiologic factors are similar.
11352753	Hexacoordinate hemoglobins are heme proteins capable of reversible intramolecular coordination of the ligand binding site by an amino acid side chain from within the heme pocket. Examples of these proteins are found in many living organisms ranging from prokaryotes to humans. The nonsymbiotic hemoglobins (nsHbs) are a class of hexacoordinate heme proteins present in all plants. The nsHb from rice (rHb1) has been used as a model system to develop methods for determining rate constants characterizing binding and dissociation of the His residue responsible for hexacoordination. Measurement of these reactions exploits laser flash photolysis to initiate the reaction from the unligated, pentacoordinate form of the heme protein. A model for ligand binding is presented that incorporates the reaction following rapid mixing with the reaction starting from the pentacoordinate hemoglobin (Hb). This model is based on results indicating that ligand binding to hexacoordinate Hbs is not a simple combination of competing first order (hexacoordination) and second order (exogenous ligand binding) reactions. Ligand binding following rapid mixing is a multiphasic reaction displaying time courses ranging from milliseconds to minutes. The new model incorporates a "closed", slow reacting form of the protein that is not at rapid equilibrium with the reactive conformation. It is also demonstrated that formation of the closed protein species is not dependent on hexacoordination.
11352858	Many experimental but few epidemiological studies have suggested that soyfoods and their constituents have cancer-inhibitory effects on breast cancer. No epidemiological study has evaluated the association of adolescent soyfood intake with the risk of breast cancer. To evaluate the effect of soyfood intake during adolescence, one of the periods that breast tissue is most sensitive to environmental stimuli, on subsequent risk of breast cancer, we analyzed data from a population-based case-control of 1459 breast cancer cases and 1556 age-matched controls (respective response rates were 91.1% and 90.3%). Information on dietary intake from ages 13-15 years was obtained by interview from all study participants and, in addition, from mothers of subjects less than 45 years of age (296 cases and 359 controls). Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) derived from unconditional logistic models were used to measure soyfood intake and breast cancer risk. After adjustment for a variety of other risk factors, adolescent soyfood intake was inversely associated with risk, with ORs of 1.0 (reference), 0.75 (95% CI, 0.60-0.93), 0.69 (95% CI, 0.55-0.87), 0.69 (95% CI, 0.55-0.86), and 0.51 (95% CI, 0.40-0.65), respectively, for the lowest to highest quintiles of total soyfood intake (trend test, P < 0.001). The inverse association was observed for each of the soyfoods examined and existed for both pre- and postmenopausal women. Adolescent soyfood intakes reported by participants' mothers were also inversely associated with breast cancer risk (P for trend < 0.001), with an OR of 0.35 (95% CI, 0.21-0.60) for women in the highest soyfood intake group. Adjustment for rice and wheat products, the major energy source in the study population, and usual adult soyfood intake did not change the soyfood associations. Our study suggests that high soy intake during adolescence may reduce the risk of breast cancer in later life.
11354361	Inhibitory activities of various cyclic sulfonium compounds including salacinol against several glycosidases were studied and some compounds showed significant inhibition. The sulfonium ion structure was found to be essential for the inhibitory activity. Specific inhibition of salacinol toward rice alpha-glucosidase was ascribed to the tether arm.
11355632	The subunit III of photosystem I and ferredoxin-NADP(+)-oxidoreductase are encoded by nuclear genes, namely psaF and petH. The activity of their promoters from spinach has been evaluated in transgenic tobacco earlier. Evaluation of the activity of these Dicotyledoneae-specific promoters has been carried out in a monocot system (i.e. rice) by transient gene expression system, based on electroporation-mediated gene delivery into protoplasts from leaves and roots. It has been found that various promoter deletions show higher activity in leaf protoplasts and elements for quantitative response are widely distributed. Transgenic rice has also been produced with a petH promoter and gus reporter gene construct. Although petH promoter is a weak promoter in comparison to the 35S promoter, it expresses well in green tissues and could be useful for plant genetic engineering.
11357429	Production of extracellular peroxidase during submerged cultivation of the xylotrophic bazidiomycete Pleurotus ostreatus UZBI-I105 in nutrient media with lignocellulosic wastes, exhausted cottonseed oil cake, cotton stalks, rice husks, or ambary hemp was studied. The enzyme production increased threefold to fivefold in the presence of exhausted cottonseed oil cake extract in the nutrient medium. The dynamics of peroxidase production in various media was investigated.
11358165	We were looking for a strain of Bjerkandera adusta that produces high titres of manganese peroxidase under optimal conditions for large-scale enzyme purification. We have chosen two strains from the University of Alberta Microfungus Collection and Herbarium, UAMH 7308 and 8258, and compared the effects of growth conditions and medium composition on enzyme production with the well-characterized strain BOS55 (ATCC 90940). Of four types of cereal bran examined, rice bran at 3% (w/v) in 60 mM phosphate buffer pH 6 supported the highest levels of enzyme production. Using 100 mL medium in 500-mL Erlenmeyer flasks, maximum enzyme levels in the culture supernatant occurred after about 10 days of growth; 5.5 U x mL(-1) for UAMH 7308, 4.4 U x mL(-1) for UAMH 8258, and 1.7 U x mL(-1) for BOS55, where units are expressed as micromoles of Mn-malonate formed per minute. Growth as submerged cultures in 10-L stirred tank reactors produced 3.5 U x mL(-1) of manganese peroxidase (MnP) by UAMH 8258 and 2.5 U x mL(-1) of MnP by 7308, while enzyme production by BOS55 was not successful in stirred tank reactors but could be scaled up in 2-L shake flasks containing 400 mL rice bran or glucose-malt-yeast extract (GMY)-Mn-glycolate medium to produce MnP levels of 1.7 U x mL(-1). These results show that the two strains of B. adusta, UAMH 7308 and 8258, can produce between two and three times the manganese peroxidase level of B. adusta BOS55, that they are good candidates for scale up of enzyme production, and that the rice bran medium supports higher levels of enzyme production than most previously described media.
11359143	To assess the use of an acellular dermal allograft in the repair of chronic tympanic membrane perforations. Chronic tympanic membrane perforations are a common problem in otolaryngology, and although surgical tympanoplasty using either temporalis fascia or rice paper has proven to be highly successful, these materials are not without their own limitations. The search has continued for a simpler, yet equally effective, means of repairing persistent tympanic membrane perforations in an office setting. In this study we experimentally evaluated the use of an acellular dermis (AlloDerm, (LifeCell Corporation, The Woodlands, TX) as an alternative to traditional tympanoplasty materials. Prospective study using 28 adult chinchillas. Subtotal tympanic membrane perforations were created bilaterally in 28 adult chinchillas. Animals with noninfected, stable perforations that showed no signs of epithelial regeneration after 5 to 8 weeks were used to compare the use of rice paper patch with AlloDerm in patch tympanoplasties. Eighteen of 23 tympanoplasties (78%) that were performed using AlloDerm showed no signs of perforation after 5 to 6 weeks. In those performed using rice paper control, 14 of 21 (66%) showed no signs of perforation after 5 to 6 weeks. In addition, histological evaluation of the healed tympanic membranes demonstrated that the acellular dermis had been incorporated within the middle fibrous layer of the tympanic membrane. The results and histological studies suggest that acellular dermis may be a suitable alternative to traditional materials currently used for patch tympanoplasty. Future studies to evaluate the efficacy of acellular dermis in humans are warranted.
11361341	The chromosomal locations of 109 rice expressed sequence tags (ESTs) in the rice genome were determined using a doubled haploid mapping population. These ESTs show high similarity to disease resistance genes or to defense response genes. Nine of the ESTs were mapped to three regions that contain genetically defined resistance genes on chromosomes 6 and 11. Clustering of the ESTs in the rice genome was observed at several chromosomal regions. Some of the clusters were located in regions where quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with partial resistance to rice blast, bacterial blight and sheath blight are known to lie. Three ESTs that were mapped to the regions containing blast resistance genes Pi2 and Pia were chosen for Northern analysis after inoculation of plants with the blast fungus. Two of them, which code for a receptor-like kinase and a putative membrane channel protein, respectively, and were mapped to the Pi2 locus, were induced by rice blast infection as early as 4 h after inoculation. Transcription of another EST, which codes for a homolog of a putative human tumor suppressor and was mapped to the region containing Pia, was repressed after blast infection. These findings demonstrate that the candidate-gene approach is an efficient way of mapping resistance genes or resistance QTLs in rice.
11361345	The rice retrotransposon Tos17 is highly activated by tissue culture. To evaluate the impact of transposition of Tos17 on the rice genome and examine its utility for insertional mutagenesis, more than 100 sequences flanking newly transposed Tos17 copies were characterised. The 5-bp target-site duplications flanking Tos17 did not show any consensus sequence, and preferred nucleotides, A/T and G/C, were only found at the second and third nucleotides from both ends of the target site duplications, respectively, indicating that Tos17 has relatively low target-site specificity at the nucleotide sequence level. Integration targets were widely distributed over the chromosomes; however, preferential integration into the sucrose synthase 2 gene and into Tos17 itself was demonstrated by PCR screening using pooled DNA prepared from the mutant population. Hybridisation studies indicated that Tos17 preferentially integrates into low-copy-number regions of the genome. In agreement with this result, about 30% of flanking sequences examined showed significant homology to known genes. Taken together, these results show that Tos17 can have a significant impact on the rice genome and can be used as a tool for efficient insertional mutagenesis.
11362438
11366552
113681	Three toxins were recovered from rice and wheat cultures of an isolate of Aspergillus flavus. The toxins were present simultaneously in the cultures after one or two weeks incubation and were identified as aflatoxin, cyclopiazonic acid and aflatrem, a recently identified indole-mevalonate metabolite.
11368995	Both lovastatin (a fungal product) and a tocotrienol rich fraction (TRF(25), a mixture of tocols isolated from stabilized and heated rice bran containing desmethyl [d-P(21)-T3] and didesmethyl [d-P(25)-T3] tocotrienols) are potent hypocholesterolemic agents, although they suppress cholesterol biosynthesis by different mechanisms. To determine additive and/or synergistic effects of both agents, chickens were fed diets supplemented with 50 ppm TRF(25) or d-P(25)-T3 in combination with 50 ppm lovastatin for 4 weeks. Combinations of d-P(25)-T3 with lovastatin were found most effective in reducing serum total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol compared to the control diet or individual supplements. The mixture of TRF(25)+lovastatin inhibited the activity of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzymeA reductase (21%) compared to lovastatin alone, which did not change its activity. Cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase activity was increased by lovastatin (11%) and by lovastatin plus TRF(25) (19%). TRF(25)+lovastatin decreased levels of serum total cholesterol (22%), LDL cholesterol (42%), apolipoprotein B (13-38%), triglycerides (19%), thromboxane B(2) (34%) and platelet factor 4 (26%), although high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and apolipoprotein A1 levels were unaffected. The mixture of TRF(25)+lovastatin showed greater effects than did the individual treatments alone, reflecting possible additive pharmacological actions. The effects, however, of the d-P(25)-T3/lovastatin combination were no greater than that of d-P(25)-T3 alone, possibly indicating that d-P(25)-T3 produced a maximum cholesterol lowering effect at the concentration used.
11370857	Xa4 is a dominantly inherited rice gene that confers resistance to Philippine race 1 of the bacterial blight pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae in rice. In order to isolate the gene by positional cloning, a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library was constructed from genomic DNA isolated from an Xa4-harboring accession, IRBB56. The library contains 55,296 clones with an average insert size of 132 kb, providing 14 rice genome equivalents. Three DNA markers closely linked to Xa4 were used to screen the library. The marker RS13, a resistance gene analogue that co-segregates with Xa4, identified 18 clones, of which four and six, respectively, were simultaneously detected by the other two markers, G181 and L1044. Fingerprinting and Southern analysis indicated that these clones overlapped and define an interval spanning 420 kb. In an F2 population derived from an indica variety, IR24, and its Xa4-containing near isogenic line (NIL), IRBB4, the susceptible plants were screened in order to map the Xa4 gene genetically and physically. Out of 24 insert ends isolated from the BACs in the contig, three revealed polymorphisms between IR24 and IRBB4. Two insert ends, 56M22F and 26D24R, flanked Xa4 on each side. Based on the overlap of the BACs, six overlapping clones were considered to include the Xa4 allele, one of which, 106P13, was chosen for further investigation.
11370871	We isolated a COP1 cDNA from rice and found that it could complement the Arabidopsis cop1-4 mutant. The putative rice COP1 protein has the Ring-finger, coiled-coil. and WD-40 repeat domains, which are also conserved in pea, tomato, and mammalian COP1 proteins. The degree of overall identity between rice COP1 and Arabidopsis COP1 is 73%, and the similarity value is 83%. Expression of rice COP1 was detected in almost all plant tissues, with the level being relatively higher in calli and very low in etiolated leaves. The expression level was positively controlled by light in etiolated and green leaves. At the end of the light period, expression of the gene in green leaves could be down-regulated by far-red light. This far-red light effect could be prevented by subsequent irradiation with red light. These results indicate that phytochrome regulates rice COP1 expression.
11371540	The endophytic diazotroph Azoarcus sp. strain BH72 is capable of infecting rice roots and of expressing the nitrogenase (nif) genes there. In order to study the genetic background for nitrogen fixation in strain BH72, the structural genes of nitrogenase (nifHDK) were cloned and sequenced. The sequence analysis revealed an unusual gene organization: downstream of nifHDK, a ferredoxin gene (fdxN; 59% amino acid sequence identity to R. capsulatus FdxN) and open reading frames showing 52 and 36% amino acid sequence identity to nifY of Pseudomonas stutzeri A15 and ORF1 of Azotobacter vinelandii were located. Northern blot analysis, reverse transcriptase PCR and primer extension analysis revealed that these six genes are located on one transcript transcribed from a sigma(54)-type promoter. Shorter transcripts sequentially missing genes of the 3' part of the full-length mRNA were more abundantly detected. Mutational analyses suggested that FdxN is an important but not the essential electron donor for dinitrogenase reductase. An in-frame deletion of fdxN resulted in reduced growth rates (59% +/- 9%) and nitrogenase activities (81%) in nitrogen-fixing pure cultures in comparison to the wild type. Nitrogenase activity was fully complemented in an fdxN mutant which carried a nifH promoter-driven fdxN gene in trans. Also, in coculture with the ascomycete Acremonium alternatum, where strain BH72 develops intracytoplasmic membrane stacks, the nitrogenase activity in the fdxN deletion mutant was decreased to 56% of the wild-type level. Surprisingly, the fdxN deletion also had an effect on the rapid "switch-off" of nitrogenase activity in response to ammonium. Wild-type strain BH72 and the deletion mutant complemented with fdxN in trans showed a rapid reversible inactivation of acetylene reduction, while the deletion mutant did not cease to reduce acetylene. In concordance with the hypothesis that changes in the redox state of NifH or electron flux towards nitrogenase may be involved in the mechanism of physiological nitrogenase switch-off, our results suggest that the ferredoxin may be a component involved in this process.
11373307	This review describes immunolocalization studies of the tissue and cellular location of glutamine synthetase (GS; EC 6.3.1.2) and glutamate synthase (Fd GOGAT; EC 1.4.7.1 and NADH-GOGAT; EC 1.4.1.14) proteins in roots and leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). In rice, cytosolic GS (GS1) protein was distributed homogeneously through all cells of the root. NADH GOGAT protein was strongly induced and its cellular location altered by ammonium treatment, becoming concentrated within the epidermal and exodermal cells. Fd GOGAT protein location changed with root development, from a widespread distribution in young cells to becoming concentrated within the central cylinder as cells matured. Plastid GS protein was barely detectable in rice roots, but was the major isoform in leaves, being present in the mesophyll and parenchyma sheath cells. GS1 was specific to the vascular bundle, as was NADH GOGAT, whereas Fd GOGAT was primarily found in mesophyll cells. In barley roots, GS1 protein was found in the cortical and vascular parenchyma and its concentration was highest in N-deficient seedlings. Plastid GS protein was detected in both cortical and vascular cells, where different plastid forms, containing different concentrations of GS protein, were identified. In barley leaves, GS2 protein was detected in the mesophyll chloroplasts and GS1 was found in the mesophyll and vascular cells. N nutrition strongly influenced this distribution, with a marked increase in GS1 concentration in the vascular cells in response to nitrate and ammonium, and an increase in mesophyll GS2 concentration in nitrate-grown seedlings. Fd GOGAT protein was found in both the mesophyll and vascular plastids. These localization studies show that the GS/GOGAT cycle is highly compartmentalized at both the subcellular and cellular levels. Reasons for this compartmentation, and the roles of each isoform, are discussed.
11375143	The activity and community structure of methanotrophs in compartmented microcosms were investigated over the growth period of rice plants. In situ methane oxidation was important only during the vegetative growth phase of the plants and later became negligible. The in situ activity was not directly correlated with methanotrophic cell counts, which increased even after the decrease in in situ activity, possibly due to the presence of both vegetative cells and resting stages. By dividing the microcosms into two soil and two root compartments it was possible to locate methanotrophic growth and activity, which was greatest in the rhizoplane of the rice plants. Molecular analysis by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) with family-specific probes revealed the presence of both families of methanotrophs in soil and root compartments over the whole season. Changes in community structure were detected only for members of the Methylococcaceae and could be associated only with changes in the genus Methylobacter and not with changes in the dominance of different genera in the family Methylococcaceae. For the family Methylocystaceae stable communities in all compartments for the whole season were observed. FISH analysis revealed evidence of in situ dominance of the Methylocystaceae in all compartments. The numbers of Methylococcaceae cells were relatively high only in the rhizoplane, demonstrating the importance of rice roots for growth and maintenance of methanotrophic diversity in the soil.
11375196	The genus Burkholderia comprises 19 species, including Burkholderia vietnamiensis which is the only known N(2)-fixing species of this bacterial genus. The first isolates of B. vietnamiensis were recovered from the rhizosphere of rice plants grown in a phytotron, but its existence in natural environments and its geographic distribution were not reported. In the present study, most N(2)-fixing isolates recovered from the environment of field-grown maize and coffee plants cultivated in widely separated regions of Mexico were phenotypically identified as B. cepacia using the API 20NE system. Nevertheless, a number of these isolates recovered from inside of maize roots, as well as from the rhizosphere and rhizoplane of maize and coffee plants, showed similar or identical features to those of B. vietnamiensis TVV75(T). These features include nitrogenase activity with 10 different carbon sources, identical or very similar nifHDK hybridization patterns, very similar protein electrophoregrams, identical amplified 16S rDNA restriction (ARDRA) profiles, and levels of DNA-DNA reassociation higher than 70% with total DNA from strain TVV75(T). Although the ability to fix N(2) is not reported to be a common feature among the known species of the genus Burkholderia, the results obtained show that many diazotrophic Burkholderia isolates analyzed showed phenotypic and genotypic features different from those of the known N(2)-fixing species B. vietnamiensis as well as from those of B. kururiensis, a bacterium identified in the present study as a diazotrophic species. DNA-DNA reassociation assays confirmed the existence of N(2)-fixing Burkholderia species different from B. vietnamiensis. In addition, this study shows the wide geographic distribution and substantial capability of N(2)-fixing Burkholderia spp. for colonizing diverse host plants in distantly separated environments.
11376862	A follow-up survey on 2101 inhabitants (1566 men, 535 women), who participated in a 1967 health survey and had resided in their present rural community since birth was conducted to determine the influence of environmental cadmium exposure on the mortality of the general population in the Jinzu River basin. The survey was conducted over 6128 days from August 1, 1967 to May 10, 1984. The rural communities were divided into two groups, one with a cadmium concentration in rice of < 0.30 ppm and the other > or = 0.30 ppm. The influence of cadmium concentration in rice on mortality was analyzed using SMRs and a Cox's proportional hazards model. In both sexes, SMRs tended to be greater in the > or = 0.3 ppm group as compared to < 0.3 ppm group. The Cox hazard ratios for males and females in the > or = 0.30 ppm group, to those in the < 0.30 ppm group, were 1.42 and 1.10, respectively (significant in the men). Since the mean cadmium concentration in rice in each rural community was closely related to the development of renal injury, in regions with high cadmium concentrations in rice, the development of renal injury induced by cadmium is believed to be the factor underlying the increased mortality observed.
11379447	The effectiveness of rice flour and maize flour based oral rehydration solution (ORS) in treating mild and moderate dehydration was studied among 88 children aged to 6 to 42 months at the Oni Memorial Children Hospital, Ibadan. In this randomized clinical trial, fifty children were treated with rice-based ORS while fifty-three received the maize-based ORS, over a four hour period. There was clinical improvement in the signs of dehydration with a significant increase in body weights and a significant fall in the packed cell volume following the administration of the two preparations. The maize-ORS contains 4.3 g protein, 179.3 Kilocalories and rice-ORS contains 3.6 g protein and 152.1 Kilocalories per litre of the preparation, respectively. It is concluded that rice and maize based ORS were acceptable and effective in oral rehydration of diarrhoea patients. They may also contribute to the nutrient intake of patients with (mild to moderate) 'some' dehydration. However other sources of energy, protein and mineral intake should be continued in these patients.
11381329	Interactions between sulfate reduction (SR) and phototrophic nitrogenase activities were investigated in rice soil slurries mixed with rice straw. Activation of SR by adding exogenous sulfate suppressed acetylene-reducing activity (ARA) of the slurries, which was associated with phototrophic purple bacteria (PB) enumerated to 108-109 MPN g-1 dry weight (dw) soil. Adding 5 mm sodium molybdate, an inhibitor of SR, markedly increased ARA. However, in the slurries receiving both molybdate and exogenous sulfate, the effects declined simultaneously with partial recovery of SR. These results indicate outcompetition of sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) with PB in rice soil, when sulfate concentrations are high enough to support SR. The increasing effects of molybdate on ARA continued during the incubation in the sulfate-depleted condition, probably because of absence of SR and toxicity of molybdate to methanogenesis. Accordingly, stopping activities of the competitive microorganisms may be efficient to increase N2 fixation in rice soil.
11381470	On October 29, 1998, The Garland Health Department in Texas investigated seven illnesses at a church day school. The six children and one adult had handled hydrated, orange-colored rice before consuming a meal. B. cereus organisms were found in the rice at an estimated concentration of 5.6 x 10(5) per gram. As far as the authors can determine, this outbreak is the first one documented to have occurred from indirect ingestion of B. cereus by way of contaminated hands, as opposed to ingestion of the toxin in the food product in which the organisms grew.
11381945	Environmental 137Cs contamination was suspected from accidents at spent fuel storage pits of a research reactor site in the Ta-han River valley in Taiwan. In order to further characterize this contamination, soil samples were collected and measured by a gamma-spectroscopy system in 1999. It was found that 137Cs contamination is distributed up to 4 km from the reactor in an area covered mostly by rice and plant fields. 137Cs concentration in the topsoil ranged up to about 1000 Bq kg-1, as compared with soil beyond the contaminated area, which does not exceed 15 Bq kg-1. Spatial distribution of 137Cs was characterized by strong non-uniformity, which complicated our understanding of the distribution pathway of the radionuclides. The highest concentrations of 137Cs, up to more than 1000 Bq kg-1, were found within a few rice fields. The relative location of these rice fields and the water supplies from local streams suggested that the 137Cs was distributed along water pathways in the valley.
11381999	The purpose of this study is to investigate the biological hydrogen production potential of individual organic fraction of municipal solid wastes (OFMSW) by batch experiments. Seven varieties of typical organic solid wastes including rice, cabbage, carrot, egg, lean meat, fat and chicken skin were selected to estimate the hydrogen production potential. Among the OFMSW, carbohydrate produced the most hydrogen through biological hydrogen fermentation compared with proteins or lipids. Subsequently, the biological hydrogen production potentials of some individual carbohydrate were measured: cabbage, 26.3-61.7 mL/g-VS; carrot, 44.9-70.7 mL/g-VS; and rice, 19.3-96.0 mL/g-VS. The hydrogen percentages of the total biogas produced from cabbage, carrot and rice were 33.9-55.1%, 27.7-46.8% and 44.0-45.6%, respectively.
11382055	Phosphorus (P) loss potential and its environmental impact from soil-water were surveyed in Jiashan Yuyao, Deqing and Yuhang, named main rice-yield areas in Northern Zhejiang province China. High P input has resulted in soil P accumulation. Higher soil Olsen-P contributed its bio-available P, water extracted P and increased soil P loss potential. The role of P in paddy soils is of environmental rather than agronomic concern in the process of soil P build-up. During the no-rice time, total P (TP) concentration in the various water including ditch drain inside/outside field, field surface water and pipe drain et al are over the critical values associated with accelerated waters eutrophication. The average proportion of dissolved reactive P (DRP) concentration in TP was 40%, however, these current DRP levels in partly ditch drain outside field and surface or ground water in no-rice time could not caused serious impact to the outside waters nearby rice-yield agriculture area. No significant line correlation between soil P tests and P in field surface water was found in no-rice time due to differences in field tillage among rice-yield areas, while P application increased both soil P and its correspondingly field surface P level after rice was planted at the same time.
11382064	L-Canavanine is a nonprotein amino acid contained in jack bean [Canavalia ensiformis (L.) DC] and shows a plant inhibitory effect. The inhibitory effect was determined by an immersion test and a microdrop test that employed rice seedlings. L-Canavanine inhibited elongation of the second leaf sheath of rice seedlings more than other natural bioactive substances, such as salicylic acid and cinnamic acid. The modified microdrop test revealed that the mode of action of L-canavanine had no relation to gibberellin synthesis. In the microdrop test, the inhibitory effect of L-canavanine was decreased by simultaneous addition of L-arginine, an analog of L-canavanine. Free amino acid analysis of rice shoots clearly showed that L-canavanine induced an unusual accumulation of L-arginine. However, accumulation of L-arginine did not cause the inhibitory effect on plant growth. These results suggest that the mechanism of inhibition of L-canavanine is closely related to the inhibition of arginine metabolism.
11382818	Glycolipids, phospholipids, and neutral lipids were extracted from the tonoplast fraction of cultured rice cells (Oryza sativa L. var. Boro). Acyl steryl glucoside (ASG) and glucocerebroside (GlcCer) were also prepared from this fraction. We determined the effects of these tonoplast lipids on the activity of H+-ATPase which was delipidated and purified from the tonoplast fraction. Exogenously added tonoplast phospholipids stimulated the activity of purified tonoplast H+-ATPase, but tonoplast glycolipids did not. When tonoplast glycolipids or tonoplast ASG was added in the presence of tonoplast phospholipids, they decreased the phospholipid-induced activation of the tonoplast H+-ATPase; tonoplast GlcCer only caused a small decrease. Steryl glucoside (SG) did not cause any decrease in this activation. Phospholipids, ASG, and GlcCer made up 35 mol%, 20 mol% and 7 mol% of the total lipids of the tonoplast fraction of cultured rice cells, respectively, and these glycolipid levels were enough to depress the phospholipid-induced activation of the tonoplast H+-ATPASE: These results revealed that H+-ATPase activity in the tonoplast may be modulated toward activation and depression by tonoplast phospholipids and glycolipids, respectively. The acylation of SG would be responsible for the depression in the phospholipid-induced H+-ATPase activity.
11383158	In an earlier report, we developed a rapid, sensitive and clean method consisting of non-chloroform extraction, clean-up on a commercial multifunctional cartridge column and HPLC with fluorescence detection for the analyses of aflatoxins. In this report, we applied this method to analyze aflatoxins in nuts, giant corn, cereals, spice and black teas. The method was effective for macadamia nuts, walnuts, hazelnuts, brazil nuts, giant corn, rice, wheat and buckwheat, and the recoveries of aflatoxins B1, B2, G1 and G2 spiked in them at the level of 10 ng/g were 85-106%. However, in the chromatograms of spices and black tea, many background peaks were observed. Therefore, we added a purification step with an affinity column to the clean-up of these samples with the multifunctional cartridge column. After the additional purification, most of the background peaks were gone. The recoveries of aflatoxins B1, B2 and G1 spiked at the level of 10 ng/g were 71-112% except for the case of B2 in white pepper (48%). The recoveries of G2 were 49-95%.
11383159	Natural flavor was accidentally produced from rice cake products in Japan. A non-stick oil had been sprayed on the products during the production process. It was found that a Penicillium corylophilum strain, a contaminant of the oil, produced the flavor from the oil. The ingredients of the flavor were four volatile substances, 2-heptanone, 2-nonanone, 2-heptanol, and 2-nonanol. Challenge tests with the mould strain in a rice cake system were performed under various conditions. The volatile substances were produced in the largest amounts at 25 degrees C, followed by 20 or 30 degrees C then 10 degrees C. 2-Heptanone was produced most remarkably at 25 degrees C, followed by 2-nonanone, 2-heptanol, and 2-nonanol. The growth patterns of the mould were similar between 20-30 degrees C, and the growth at 10 degrees C was delayed. The non-stick oil itself had neither flavor nor volatile substance. The flavor was also produced from coconut oil, which was one of the materials of the non-stick oil. No bacteria or yeasts tested produced any flavor from the non-stick oil, whereas most of the moulds tested produced flavor components.
11384226	Allpahuayo virus was initially isolated from arboreal rice rats (Oecomys bicolor and Oecomys paricola) collected during 1997 at the Allpahuayo Biological Station in northeastern Peru. Serological and genetic studies identified the virus as a new member of the Tacaribe complex of the genus Arenavirus. The small (S) segment of the Allpahuayo virus prototype strain CLHP-2098 (Accession No. AY012686) was sequenced, as well as that of sympatric isolate CLHP-2472 (Accession No. AY012687), from the same rodent species. The S segment was 3382 bases in length and phylogenetic analysis indicated that Allpahuayo is a sister virus to Pichinde in clade A. Two ambisense, nonoverlapping reading frames were identified, which result in two predicted gene products, a glycoprotein precursor (GPC) and a nucleocapsid protein (NP). A predicted stable single hairpin secondary structure was identified in the intergenic region between GPC and NP. Details of the genetic organization of Allpahuayo virus are discussed.
11385596	The rice herbicide propanil induces alterations in the mouse immune system, causing significant decreases in T cell-dependent and T cell-independent antibody responses. This postemergent herbicide is used extensively in rice production in the Mississippi River delta region of the southern United States. The aerial application and airborne drift of propanil may pose health concerns to exposed farm families living adjacent to sprayed rice fields. To determine if aerial spraying of propanil increases risks of altered immune responses in families bordering rice fields, immune parameters were assessed during a 2-year study. Families living within 100 yards of rice fields were compared in a case control study to farm families whose homes exceeded 1 mile from any rice field. Blood was analyzed in adults (n = 56) and children (n = 52) at three time intervals: (1) preseason, prior to propanil application; (2) 5-7 days after aerial application of propanil to rice fields; and (3) postseason, following harvest. Exposed adults and children were compared with controls for a number of immune parameters. Total cell count and the percentage of various lymphocytes (T cells, B cells, CD4+ helper cells, and CD8+ suppressor cells) and natural killer (NK) cells, mitogen-induced cell proliferation, cytokine (IL-2+) production, and NK cell function were assessed. A comparison of immune function between exposed and nonexposed farm families showed no significant differences, possibly related to propanil exposure. However, some immune test parameters changed as a function of season rather than propanil exposure. The data indicate that individuals living next to rice fields are not at increased risk of altered immune function due to propanil exposure.
11385597	Propanil is widely used as a postemergence herbicide in rice. Because it is typically applied aerially, there is a potential for propanil to drift into and around homes of those living adjacent to rice fields. Propanil has been shown to be immunotoxic in rodent models. The objective of this study was to measure the levels of propanil to which families living adjacent to aerially sprayed rice fields may be exposed. Air levels were sampled by actively and passively collecting propanil in and around the homes of volunteer families living in close proximity to rice fields sprayed with propanil. Homes ranged from 73 m to 113 m from treated rice fields. Sampling was conducted in the home, adjacent to the home (within 5 m of the home), 30 m from the home, and at the edge of the rice field. Concentrations were determined via gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy. Propanil levels adjacent to the homes ranged from nondetectable to 1,106.4 microg per 400 cm2 collection surface (2.0 microg detection limit). Wind direction and wind velocity were the primary determinants of propanil drift. At sites where the prevailing wind was blowing away from the home, no propanil was detected except at the edge of the field. Distance from the edge of the rice field also influenced the amount of drift with higher levels measured at 30 m from the house than adjacent to the house. No propanil vapor was detected on absorbent media sampled in and around the homes. The results indicate that individuals living adjacent to rice fields aerially sprayed with propanil are potentially exposed to variable amounts of propanil, and wind speed and direction are the most important factors that influence the concentration of aerially applied pesticide.
11386373	Plant roots secrete a complex polysaccharide mucilage that may provide a significant source of carbon for microbes that colonize the rhizosphere. High molecular weight mucilage was separated by high-pressure liquid chromatography gel filtration from low molecular weight components of pea root exudate. Purified pea root mucilage generally was similar in sugar and glycosidic linkage composition to mucilage from cowpea, wheat, rice, and maize, but appeared to contain an unusually high amount of material that was similar to arabinogalactan protein. Purified pea mucilage was used as the sole carbon source for growth of several pea rhizosphere bacteria, including Rhizobium leguminosarum 8401 and 4292, Burkholderia cepacia AMMD, and Pseudomonas fluorescens PRA25. These species grew on mucilage to cell densities of three- to 25-fold higher than controls with no added carbon source, with cell densities of 1 to 15% of those obtained on an equal weight of glucose. Micromolar concentrations of nod gene-inducing flavonoids specifically stimulated mucilage-dependent growth of R. leguminosarum 8401 to levels almost equaling the glucose controls. R. leguminosarum 8401 was able to hydrolyze p-nitrophenyl glycosides of various sugars and partially utilize a number of purified plant polysaccharides as sole carbon sources, indicating that R. leguminosarum 8401 can make an unexpected variety of carbohydrases, in accordance with its ability to extensively utilize pea root mucilage.
11386542	Atmospheric turbulence is inherently inhomogeneous and intermittent. Short periods of high activity are embedded in longer periods of relative calm. Local spatial and temporal changes in sound speed associated with this intermittency increase the likelihood of measuring large values of scattered acoustic signals. Previous work successfully predicted the probability density functions (pdf's) of fully saturated, scattered signals measured within an acoustic shadow zone [Wilson et al., J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 99, 3393-3400 (1996)]. The more general case of incompletely saturated scattering is considered in this paper; using the Rice-Nagakami distribution a theory is developed. The predicted intensity pdf has two free parameters: one to describe the degree of intermittency and a second for the degree of saturation. For validation purposes, outdoor propagation measurements were made over a flat, hard ground at ranges of 146-283 m and at frequencies of 50-540 Hz. The saturation parameter was determined from the acoustic data and also estimated from the turbulence conditions. The degree of saturation increased with frequency, and measured intensity pdf's were found to be in excellent agreement with the theory.
11386736	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins, and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) are persistent environmental pollutants. In some areas wildlife reproduction has been affected by these compounds, which are recognized as endocrine disrupters. In 1968 in northern Kyushu in Japan about 2000 people were poisoned by PCBs and PCDFs (pyrolysis products of PCBs) which contaminated rice oil. Their condition was named "Yusho" disease. A similar poisoning by PCBs in Taiwan was named "Yu-Cheng" disease. The major symptoms of Yusho disease were dermal and ocular lesions, but some of the symptoms, such as irregular menstrual cycles and altered immune responses, were notable with respect to the endocrine disrupting activities of PCBs and related compounds. Several important observations relevant to the mechanisms of Yusho have been made from animal studies. For example, a coplanar PCB congener was shown to cause atrophy of the thymus and PCB administration was thought to alter androgen metabolism. The most tragic aspect of Yusho and Yu-Cheng diseases was the exposure of children to PCBs. In the case of Yu-Cheng, children exposed to PCBs in utero and lactationally were reported to have poor cognitive development. Intellectual impairment was also observed in children born to women who had eaten fish contaminated with PCBs in the United States. From animal studies, alterations in thyroid hormone status, modulation of protein kinase C, and changes in dopamine levels, etc. were proposed as the possible mechanisms for the adverse effects of PCBs on brain development. Whereas coplanar PCB and related congeners, e.g., 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, induce gene expression via a ligand-dependent transactivating factor, the arylhydrocarbon receptor, alternative pathways for gene expression, e.g., c-Src and cross talk with the MAP kinase pathway, are also reviewed with respect to understanding the toxic mechanisms of these compounds. Finally, the "precautionary principle" is discussed for prevention of the health hazards caused by exposure to endocrine disrupters.
11386741	Using as an index of exposure the Cd concentration in rice and as an index of health effect the urinary abnormality rate (proteinuria, glycosuria, and proteinuria with glycosuria) in the most systematic and extensive health screening examination conducted in 1967 and 1968 in the Jinzu River basin, Japan (a total of 13,183 subjects), we investigated whether a dose-response relationship exists between the two indices. For subjects that lived in the same hamlet since birth, with low Cd concentrations in rice it was confirmed that renal dysfunction does not develop unless the length of residence is prolonged, whereas with high Cd concentrations in rice renal dysfunction develops even when the length of residence is short. For subjects that lived in the same hamlet for over 30 years and that were aged over 50 years, the urinary abnormality rate in individual hamlets showed significant increases with increases in the mean Cd concentration in rice, demonstrating that a dose-response relationship existed. The allowable values of Cd concentration in rice were estimated to be in the range of 0.05-0.20 ppm, representing values lower than the 0.4 ppm provisionally adopted by the Japanese government.
11386857	Human alpha(1)-antitrypsin was produced by genetically engineered rice cells using promoter and signal peptide of a rice alpha-amylase isozyme. Batch and continuous cultures were employed to investigate the effects of alternative carbon sources on the alpha(1)-antitrypsin production. While this expression system is inducible by sugar depletion, we have found that the productivity of alpha(1)-antitrypsin increased 2.4- to 3.4-fold, compared with the control medium without carbon source, in medium containing an alternative carbon source, such as pyruvic acid and glyoxylic acid. The accumulated alpha(1)-antitrypsin in the medium containing pyruvic acid reached 18.2-24.2 mg/g-dry cell in 50-70 h by batch culture.
11387441	The puzzling mass-independent isotopic enrichment in ozone formation contrasts markedly with the more recently observed large unconventional mass-dependent ratios of the individual ozone formation rate constants in certain systems. An RRKM (Rice, Ramsperger, Kassel, Marcus)-based theory is used to treat both effects. Restrictions of symmetry on how energy is shared among the rotational/vibrational states of the ozone isotopomer, together with an analysis of the competition between the transition states of its two exit channels, permit the calculation of isotope effects consistent with a wide array of experimental results.
11387972	Transgenic rice plants expressing the maize phosphoeno/pyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) and pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK) exhibit a higher photosynthetic capacity (up to 35%) than untransformed plants. The increased photosynthetic capacity in these plants is mainly associated with an enhanced stomatal conductance and a higher internal CO2 concentration. Plants simultaneously expressing high levels of both enzymes also have a higher photosynthetic capacity. The results suggest that both PEPC and PPDK play a key role in organic acid metabolism in the guard cells to regulate stomatal opening. Under photoinhibitory and photooxidative conditions, PEPC transgenic rice plants are capable of maintaining a higher photosynthetic rate, a higher photosynthetic quantum yield by PSII and a higher capacity to dissipate excess energy photochemically and non-photochemically than untransformed plants. Preliminary data from field trials show that relative to untransformed plants, the grain yield is about 10-20% higher in selected PEPC and 30-35% higher in PPDK transgenic rice plants, due to increased tiller number. Taken together, these results suggest that introduction of C4 photosynthesis enzymes into rice has a good potential to enhance its tolerance to stress, photosynthetic capacity and yield.
11387973
11387974	There are three important considerations in assessing the interaction of crop plants with light: (a) how does the plant respond to the light environment both in the short-term (regulation) and in the long-term (acclimation), (b) under what conditions are these responses inadequate, leading to photoinhibition, and (c) are the responses optimally adapted for maximum agricultural yield? Despite a wealth of knowledge about these processes in model plant species, it is impossible to predict how significant they are in influencing the yield of rice. Therefore, in collaboration with IRRI, we have undertaken a study of photoinhibition and photoacclimation of rice under field conditions. The results of this study are presented, along with an assessment of the implications for improvement of rice yield.
11387975	Rice is an important food crop and a model plant for other cereal genomes. The Clemson University Genomics Institute framework project, begun two years ago in anticipation of the now ongoing international effort to sequence the rice genome, is nearing completion. Two bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries have been constructed from the Oryza sativa cultivar Nipponbare. Over 100,000 BAC end sequences have been generated from these libraries and, at a current total of 28 Mbp, represent 6.5% of the total rice genome sequence. This sequence information has allowed us to draw first conclusions about unique and redundant rice genomic sequences. In addition, more than 60,000 clones (19 genome equivalents) have been successfully fingerprinted and assembled into contigs using FPC software. Many of these contigs have been anchored to the rice chromosomes using a variety of techniques. Hybridization experiments have shown these contigs to be very robust. Contig assembly and hybridization experiments have revealed some surprising insights into the organization of the rice genome, which will have significant repercussions for the sequencing effort. Integration of BAC end sequence data with anchored contig information has provided unexpected revelations on sequence organization at the chromosomal level.
11387976	Plant productivity and yield are dependent on source-sink relationships, i.e. the capacity of source leaves to fix CO2 and the capacity of developing sink tissues and organs to assimilate and convert this fixed carbon into dry matter. Studies from our laboratories as well as others have demonstrated that rice productivity and yield are mainly sink-limited during its development because of limited capacity to utilize the initial photosynthetic product (triose phosphate). This limitation in triose phosphate utilization, evident at both the vegetative and reproductive stages of rice development, may be associated with limited capacity for carbohydrate synthesis in rice leaves (which are poor accumulators of starch) or feedback due to limited sink strength of developing seeds. Strategies in improving triose phosphate utilization by enhancing starch production in leaves and developing seeds by the expression of engineered genes for ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase, a key regulatory enzyme of starch biosynthesis, are discussed.
11387980	The cloning of major resistance genes has led to a better understanding of the molecular biology of the steps for induction of resistance, yet much remains to be discovered about the downstream genes that collectively confer resistance, i.e. the defence response (DR) genes. We are dissecting the pathways contributing to resistance in rice by identifying a collection of mutants with deletions or other structural rearrangements in DR genes. The collection of rice mutants has been screened for many characters, including increased susceptibility or resistance to Magnaporthe grisea and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. A collection of enhanced sequence tags (ESTs) and putative DR genes has been established to facilitate detection of mutants with deletions in DR genes. Arrays of DR genes will be used to create gene expression profiles of interesting mutants. Successful application of the mutant screen will have broad utility in identifying candidate genes involved in disease response and other metabolic pathways.
11387982	To obtain a functioning provitamin A (beta-carotene) biosynthetic pathway in rice endosperm, we introduced in a single, combined transformation effort the cDNAs coding for (1) phytoene synthase (psy) and (2) lycopene beta-cyclase (beta-lcy; both from Narcissus pseudonarcissus and both under control of the endosperm-specific glutelin promoter), with (3) a bacterial phytoene desaturase (crtI, from Erwinia uredovora under constitutive 35S promoter control). This combination covers the requirements for beta-carotene synthesis, and yellow, beta-carotene-bearing rice endosperm was obtained in the T0 generation. However, further experiments revealed that the presence of beta-lcy was not necessary, since psy and crtI alone were able to drive beta-carotene synthesis as well as the formation of further downstream xanthophylls. This finding could be explained if these downstream enzymes are either constitutively expressed in rice endosperm or are induced by the transformation, e.g. by products derived therefrom. Based on results in N. pseudonarcissus as a model system, a likely hypothesis can be developed that trans lycopene or a trans lycopene derivative acts as an inductor in a kind of feedback mechanism stimulating endogenous carotenogenic genes.
11387984
11387985	Since its establishment in 1991, the Rice Genome Research Program (RGP) has produced some basic tools for rice genome analysis, including a cDNA catalogue, a genetic linkage map and a yeast artificial chromosome (YAC)-based physical map. For the further development of rice genomics, RGP launched in 1998 an international collaborative project on rice genome sequencing. A P1-derived artificial chromosome (PAC)-based, sequence-ready physical map has been constructed using the PCR markers from cDNA sequences (expressed sequence tag [EST] markers). Selected PAC clones with 100-150 kb inserts from chromosomes 1 and 6 have been subjected to shotgun sequencing. The assembled genomic sequences, after predicting the gene-coding region, have been published both through a public database and through our website. As of January 2000, 1.9 Mb from 13 PAC clones were published. Future prospects for understanding rice genomic information at the nucleotide level are discussed.
11387986	Over the past 15 years rice has been the focus of intense co-ordinated research activity to apply the new molecular biology to this key staple. The fact that rice has a small tractable genome and the development of genetic and genomic tools not available in any other cereal have now ensured the promotion of rice as a favoured research target. However the discovery that gene content and gene order--genome colinearity--have been maintained among all the Poaceae family for some 60 million years of evolution has elevated rice yet further to the status of a 'model' organism. Rice tools can be applied in research on the other major cereals, wheat and maize, and many aspects of rice genetics can be transferred to the many minor economic grass species that have not themselves warranted extensive research and breeding. In this paper we describe some of the applications of the discovery of extensive synteny among the grasses.
11387987	The distinguishing feature of the 'new biology' is that it is information intensive. Not only does it demand access to and assimilation of vast data sets accumulated by engineered laboratory processes, but it also demands a previously unimaginable level of data integration across data types and sources. There are various information resources available for rice. In addition, there are various information resources that are not focused on rice but that contain rice data. The challenge for rice researchers and breeders is to access this wealth of data meaningfully. This challenge will grow significantly as international efforts aimed at sequencing the entire rice genome come into full swing. Only through concerted efforts in bioinformatics will the power of these public data be brought to bear on the needs of rice researchers and breeders worldwide. These efforts will need to focus on two large but distinct areas: (1) development of an effective bioinformatics infrastructure (hardware systems, software systems, and software engineers and support staff) and (2) computational biology research in visualization and analysis of very large, complex data sets, such as those that will be developed using high-throughput expression technologies, large-scale insertional mutagenesis, and biochemical profiling of various types. In the midst of the large flow of high-throughput data that the international rice genome sequencing efforts will produce, it is also imperative that integration of those data with unique germplasm data held in trust by the CGIAR be a part of the informatics infrastructure. This paper will focus on the state of rice information resources, the needs of the rice community, and some proposed bioinformatics activities to support these needs.
11387988	A system for the regulation of gene expression by small molecules in transgenic rice was developed. This gene switch system consists of two components: (1) a hybrid chemically activated transcription factor, and (2) a synthetic target promoter. The two elements were transformed into rice suspension cells and transgenic plants were regenerated. A luciferase reporter under control of the gene switch system displayed as high as 10,000-fold inducibility following exposure to the small molecule ligand. The dose-response and induction time-course were determined. Regulated luciferase activity in activated plants decreased one day following removal of ligand and could be reactivated multiple times without apparent cosuppression. Analysis of luciferase activity following ligand application to media surrounding the roots suggests that ligand can be absorbed and transported systemically. In contrast, reporter activation was limited to a small area when ligand was applied directly to the leaf surface. The described gene switch system represents an important tool for situations requiring conditional gene expression in a monocot species.
11388516	Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease of worldwide distribution caused by spirochetes of the genus Leptospira. Humans are infected through direct contact with infected animals or through exposure to fresh water or soil contaminated by infected animal urine. Leptospirosis is characterized by acute fever that can be followed by a more severe, sometimes fatal illness that may include jaundice and renal failure (Weil's disease), meningitis, myocarditis, hemorrhagic pneumonitis, or hemodynamic collapse. To identify potential risk factors for leptospirosis in Thailand, we conducted a matched case-control study in Nakornratchasrima Province of the northeastern region. Fifty-nine cases and 118 controls were included in the study. Four activities in the two weeks prior to illness were independently associated with leptospirosis infection: walking through water (odds ratio [OR] = 4.9, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.7-14.1), applying fertilizer in wet fields for more than 6 hr a day (OR = 3.4, 95% CI = 1.5-7.8), plowing in wet fields for more than 6 hr a day (OR = 3.5, 95% CI = 1.1-11.6), and pulling out rice plant sprouts in wet fields for more than 6 hr a day (OR = 3.1, 95% CI = 1.02-9.3). Identification of these risk factors on admission might prove useful for early diagnosis and treatment of leptospirosis in Thailand.
11389718	The structure of an exopolysaccharide (EPS) produced by Burkholderia brasiliensis, a diazotrophic endophytic organism originally isolated from rice roots, has been determined. The bacterium was grown in a synthetic medium, containing mannitol and glutamate, which favours the expression of two anionic EPSs, which were separated by anion-exchange chromatography. The structure of the repeat unit of EPS A, eluted at higher ionic strength, was determined by a combination of methylation analysis, partial hydrolysis, chemical degradations, and NMR spectroscopic studies, and shown to be the linear O-acetylated pentasaccharide: -->4)-alpha-D-Glcp-(1-->2)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1-->4)-alpha-D-GlcpA-(1-->3)-beta-L-Rhap[2OAc]-(1-->4)-beta-D-Glcp-(1-->.
11389979	The sunflower (Helianthus annuus) orthologue of PEX6, an AAA ATPase essential for the biogenesis of peroxisomes in yeasts and mammals, was isolated. HaPex6p is immunologically related to Pichia pastoris Pex6p. Like other genes involved in peroxisome biogenesis and function HaPEX6 mRNA and protein levels peak in early post-germinative growth and mRNA levels also increase in senescent tissue. HaPEX6 identifies probable orthologues in Arabidopsis and rice.
11390974	The promoter from rice tungro bacilliform badnavirus (RTBV) is expressed only in phloem tissues in transgenic rice plants. RF2a, a b-Zip protein from rice, is known to bind to the Box II cis element near the TATA box of the promoter. Here, we report that the full-length RTBV promoter and a truncated fragment E of the promoter, comprising nucleotides -164 to +45, result in phloem-specific expression of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter genes in transgenic tobacco plants. When a fusion gene comprising the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and RF2a cDNA was coexpressed with the GUS reporter genes, GUS activity was increased by 2-20-fold. The increase in GUS activity was positively correlated with the amount of RF2a, and the expression pattern of the RTBV promoter was altered from phloem-specific to constitutive. Constitutive expression of RF2a did not induce morphological changes in the transgenic plants. In contrast, constitutive overexpression of the b-ZIP domain of RF2a had a strong effect on the development of transgenic plants. These studies suggest that expression of the b-Zip domain can interfere with the function of homologues of RF2a that regulate development of tobacco plants.
11391010	We describe in this study punchless, a nonpathogenic mutant from the rice blast fungus M. grisea, obtained by plasmid-mediated insertional mutagenesis. As do most fungal plant pathogens, M. grisea differentiates an infection structure specialized for host penetration called the appressorium. We show that punchless differentiates appressoria that fail to breach either the leaf epidermis or artificial membranes such as cellophane. Cytological analysis of punchless appressoria shows that they have a cellular structure, turgor, and glycogen content similar to those of wild type before penetration, but that they are unable to differentiate penetration pegs. The inactivated gene, PLS1, encodes a putative integral membrane protein of 225 aa (Pls1p). A functional Pls1p-green fluorescent protein fusion protein was detected only in appressoria and was localized in plasma membranes and vacuoles. Pls1p is structurally related to the tetraspanin family. In animals, these proteins are components of membrane signaling complexes controlling cell differentiation, motility, and adhesion. We conclude that PLS1 controls an appressorial function essential for the penetration of the fungus into host leaves.
11392748	Selenium (Se) content both in total and bioavailable forms were very low (25-35 and 9.5 micrograms/kg, respectively) in waterlogged paddy soils in the central Yangtze River Delta. This was due to changes in geochemistry and the inherent properties of the parent materials of these lowland paddy soils. The very low Se content (23 micrograms/kg) in the parent material resulted in low total Se content in the soil. The main chemical changes under long-term waterlogged conditions are depletion of molecular oxygen, decrease of redox potential, and reduction of Fe (III) to Fe (II) and SeO3(2-) to Se0. This led to low availability of Se in soils, and subsequently low Se content (29 micrograms/kg) in brown rice grain produced in this region. It has been suspected that low Se content in staple food might be one of the major reasons for a high infection rate of the intestine and stomach cancers and the higher death rate caused by these diseases in the region. Foliage spray of Na2SeO3 at early heading stage of rice plant growth improved the Se content of brown rice grain, hull, and straw, and would improve human and animal health.
11394303	The coupling of capillary zone electrophoresis with electrospray mass spectrometry was optimized for the direct determination of phytochelatins (PCs) in extracts obtained from cells and plants that had been exposed to metal stress. Gluthathione and phytochelatins belonging to the different families (gamma Glu-Cys)nGly (n-PC), (gamma Glu-Cys)nSer, (gamma Glu-Cys)n beta Ala and (gamma Glu-Cys)n were separated in an uncoated capillary at pH 4 using a 5 mM ammonium acetate buffer, and detected by electrospray (ES) MS in the full scan mode (300-1100 u). The use of on-line tandem MS detection in the product ion scan mode of putative protonated molecules of PCs allowed the unambiguous confirmation of the identity of the compounds detected by ES MS. The operational conditions were optimized and the figures of merit were evaluated using n-PC2, n-PC3 and n-PC4 standards purified from a mixture obtained after the reaction of glutathione in the presence of Cd2+ and the enzyme PC-synthase. The method was applied to the characterization of bioinduced ligands in cell cultures of soybeans (Glycine max) and in rice (Oryza sativa) roots without the need for a preliminary sample cleanup by size-exclusion and/or reversed phase chromatography.
11398312	The Japanese recommended dietary allowances (RDA) for major and some minor nutrients were revised in 1999, and included those for trace elements such as selenium. The requirement of selenium in animals was first recognized in 1957. It has been shown that cellular glutathione peroxidase (GPx) contains selenium but it was subsequently revealed that selenium has diverse biochemical effects, rather than simply functioning in the enzyme. At least twelve different selenoproteins have been identified. The role of selenium has been known as antioxidant, and non-antioxidant mediated through these enzymes. Now, selenium is well recognized as a preventive factor for cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Several dietary studies have shown that the selenium intake in Japan is adequate. One study estimated daily selenium intake to be 104.2 micrograms/day for adults. This value was 2 or 3 times higher than the lower limit of the safe range of dietary selenium (40 micrograms/day for men and 30 micrograms/day for women) estimated by WHO, and also exceeded the newly established RDA of 55-60 micrograms/day for men and 45 micrograms/day for women by the Japanese Public Health Council. However, the established RDA for selenium is tentative because of a lack of information on the 1) chemical forms of selenium in food, 2) differences in absorption rate and bio-availability in the chemical forms, and 3) interactions with other metals and trace elements. There are two potential problems concerning selenium nutrition in Japan. The first problem is that rice, which is the Japanese staple food, contains less than 0.05 microgram/g selenium whereas U.S. rice contains more than 0.3 microgram/g, probably due to differences in soil chemistry. The second problem is that although studies have shown that seafood, fish, shellfish and oysters, contain high levels of selenium (0.4-0.5 microgram/g), these being the main selenium source for Japanese, the bio-availability in fish is low. Thus, it is likely that the selenium status of those Japanese who eat an imbalanced diet is not sufficient or is not optimal even if the intake exceeds the RDA. Further studies are needed so that community health care specialists have available appropriate knowledge on the role of trace nutrients, including selenium, in human nutrition and health, to promote proper nutritional practices in the community.
11398662	Breeding preferences of Anopheles culicifacies, a principle malaria vector, in the plains of India was studied in the rice agro-ecosystem of Kheda district in central Gujarat. Extensive breeding of this species was found in the rice field channels (20.83 per cent) and in rice fields (5.32 per cent). However, rice nurseries (0.91 per cent) and post-harvested rice fields (2.51 per cent) were less preferred. The species was found in abundance in newly transplanted rice fields and during early months of rice cultivation with a peak prevalence in the non-monsoon (Rabi) season. The breeding of An. culicifacies was inversely proportional and negatively correlated (r = -0.868; p < 0.05) with the height of the plants, whereas it showed a positive correlation (r = 0.779; p < 0.05) with the distance between plants. Rice fields near the villages supported maximum breeding of An. culicifacies (48 per cent) followed by the rice fields, 0.5 to one km away from the human habitation. Co-efficient of association (C8 index) revealed a positive association of the species with An. annularis, An. pallidus, An. subpictus and Cx. quinquefasciatus. However, it was negatively associated with An. nigerrimus, Cx. tritaeniorhynchus and Cx. vishnui sub groups.
11398973	Highly repetitive tandem DNA sequence repeats are often associated with centromeric and telomeric regions of eukaryotic chromosomes. The rice tandem repeat Os48 is organized as long arrays of a 355 bp monomer and is mainly located in the telomeric regions. The chromosomal locations of the Os48 sequence were determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) on rice pachytene chromosomes. The majority of the Os48 loci are associated with brightly 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)-stained and knob-like heterochromatin in rice pachytene chromosomes. As with other DNA sequences located in the heterochromatic regions, the cytosines of the CG and C(A/T)G sites within the Os48 repeat are heavily methylated. Surprisingly, a proportion of the FISH signals are highly decondensed and deviate significantly from the DAPI-stained periphery of the pachytene chromosomes. This highly decondensed chromatin structure has not been reported in pachytene chromosomes prepared from alcohol/acid-fixed meiotic samples in any other eukaryotic species. The condensation of the Os48 sequences is dynamic during prophase I of meiosis. The FISH signals derived from the Os48 repeat progress from a condensed configuration between leptonema and early pachynema into a decondensed structure from middle pachynema to diakinesis, and then return to a condensed form at metaphase I.
11400070	The production and its potential use of a novel trihydroxy unsaturated fatty acid, 7,10,12-trihydroxy-8(E)-octadecenoic acid (TOD), were investigated. TOD was formed by Pseudomonas aeruginosa PR3 (NRRL B-18602) in a culture supplied with exogenous ricinoleic acid. The yield of TOD production was always higher in a rich culture medium than in minimal screening medium. Extending the conversion time from 48 to 72 h prior to lipid extraction led to a 65% reduction in yield, indicating that TOD was further metabolized by strain PR3 and that control of reaction time is important to achieving a maximum yield. The optimum culture density, reaction time, pH, temperature, and substrate concentration for the production of TOD were: 20-24 h culture growth, 48 h, 7.0, 25 degrees C, and 1% (vol/vol), respectively. Under optimum conditions, the yield of TOD production was greater than 45%. TOD was found to be an antifungal agent most active against the fungus that causes blast disease in rice plants, the most important fungal disease affecting rice production worldwide.
11400261	The chemiluminescence (CL) constituents of cereals were detected by CL using the H(2)O(2)-acetaldehyde system. The cereals tested, such as rice, millet and sorghum, exhibited various levels of CL activity. The gamma-oryzanol fraction was extracted from brown rice and separated into four constituents by HPLC. The four constituents were identified as cycloartenyl ferulate, 24-methylenecycroartanyl ferulate, campesteryl ferulate and beta-sitosteryl ferulate. Free radical scavenging activities with 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and CL intensities of four constituents (gamma-oryzanol components) were measured and compared with that of gallic acid, which is a typical free radical scavenger. Four constituents scavenged DPPH radicals and scavenging activities were proportional to CL intensities. Concentrations of four CL constituents required to quench 50% (IC(50)) of the free radicals ranged from 0.9 to 1.1 mmol/L. We demonstrated that measurement of CL intensities was a rapid and convenient method for screening DPPH radical scavenging activities of rice.
11401017	This paper evaluates the associations of previous exposure to environmental cadmium (Cd) and renal function with total mortality and cancer incidence. The study population comprised 275 residents (aged 40-92 years at baseline) in a Cd-polluted area located on Tsushima Island, Nagasaki, Japan. In the study area, the dietary intake of Cd decreased because the soil of the Cd-polluted rice fields was replaced with new soil between 1980 and 1983. The mortality rate from 1982 to 1997 and cancer incidence from 1985 to 1996 were investigated. Standardized mortality and incidence ratios (SMR and SIR) were calculated by using regional reference rates. The associations of renal function and urinary Cd levels with total mortality and cancer incidence were evaluated with Cox regression models. The SMR for all subjects, and those with a urinary beta2-microglobulin (U-beta2M) concentration > or = 1,000 microg/g creatinine (Cr) and < 1,000 microg/g Cr was estimated at 90 [95% confidence interval (CI) 73-109], 138 (95% CI 101-183) and 66 (95% CI 49-87), respectively. After adjustment for age and other potential confounders, in men, serum beta2M (S-beta2M) (> or = 2.3 mg/l) and in women, serum Cr (> or = 21.2 mg/ 100 ml), relative clearance of beta2M (> or = 21%) and U-beta2M (> or = 1,000 microg/g Cr), were associated with a significantly increased risk of mortality, with hazard ratios exceeding 2.0. After further adjustment for log(U-beta2M), the rate ratio of deaths associated with, in men, increased S-beta2M was 2.53 (95% CI 0.97-6.65) and, in women, increased serum Cr (S-Cr) concentrations was 2.75 (95% CI 1.24-6.14). Urinary Cd concentrations (> or = 10 microg/g Cr) were not significantly associated with mortality. The overall SIR of all malignant neoplasms was 71 (95% CI 44-107). These findings suggest that renal tubule dysfunction and a reduced glomerular filtration rate are predictors of mortality among persons previously exposed to environmental Cd. However, the results also suggest that overall mortality rates in Cd-polluted areas are not necessarily increased, because of the low mortality among those with no, or only slight, signs of low-molecular weight proteinuria. Overall cancer incidence may not be increased among residents in Cd-polluted areas.
11402173	The perception of microbial signal molecules is part of the strategy evolved by plants to survive attacks by potential pathogens. To gain a more complete understanding of the early signaling events involved in these responses, we used radioactive orthophosphate to pulse-label suspension-cultured cells of Arabidopsis in conjunction with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to identify proteins that are phosphorylated rapidly in response to bacterial and fungal elicitors. One of these proteins, AtPhos43, and related proteins in tomato and rice, are phosphorylated within minutes after treatment with flagellin or chitin fragments. By measuring (32)P incorporation into AtPhos43 immunoprecipitated from extracts of elicitor-treated hormone and defense-response mutants, we found that phosphorylation of AtPhos43 after flagellin treatment but not chitin treatment is dependent on FLS2, a receptor-like kinase involved in flagellin perception. Induction by both elicitors is not dependent on salicylic acid or EDS1, a putative lipase involved in defense signaling.
11403460	Various analytical methods used in the analysis of type B trichothecenes (deoxynivalenol, nivalenol, 3- and 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol) in cereals were compared and optimised in this work. These methods use either GC-electron-capture detection (ECD) of trimethylsilyl, trifluoroacetyl and heptafluorobutyryl derivatives or HPLC with UV or photodiode array detection of analytes. A new HPLC procedure using fluorescence detection prior derivatisation with coumarin-3-carbonyl chloride has been also tested. Five extraction solvents and two solid-phase extraction cartridges (silica, Florisil) plus a especial clean-up column (MycoSep 225) were compared in order to obtain the best recovery of the mycotoxins with minimal presence of coextractives in the chromatograms. The chosen extraction solvent was a mixture of acetonitrile-water (84:16, v/v). The MycoSep 225 column was chosen as the best alternative for clean-up of grain samples. For GC-ECD analysis, derivatisation of analytes with heptafluorobutyric anhydride prior the final determination was chosen as the most suitable procedure. HPLC-photodiode array (at 221 nm) analysis was more suitable for determination of type B trichothecenes than HPLC of the fluorescent coumarin-3-carbonyl derivatives. Recoveries obtained in spiked corn, rice and wheat are reported. The utility of the proposed methodology was assayed in cereal cultures of various Fusarium strains.
11405522	Several studies have suggested that the increasing prevalence of symptoms of asthma, rhinitis and eczema, could be associated with dietary factors. In the present paper, a global analysis of prevalence rates of wheeze, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis and atopic eczema was performed in relation to diet, as defined by national food intake data. Analyses were based on the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC) data for 6-7 and 13-14 yr old children. Symptoms of wheeze, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis and atopic eczema symptom prevalence were regressed against per capita food intake, and adjusted for gross national product to account for economic development. Dietary data were based on 1995 Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations data for 53 of the 56 countries that took part in ISAAC phase I (1994/1995). The 13-14 year age group showed a consistent pattern of decreases in symptoms of wheeze (current and severe), allergic rhinoconjunctivitis and atopic eczema, associated with increased per capita consumption of calories from cereal and rice, protein from cereals and nuts, starch, as well as vegetables and vegetable nutrients. The video questionnaire data for 13-14 yr olds and the ISAAC data for 6-7 yr olds showed similar patterns for these foods. A consistent inverse relationship was seen between prevalence rates of the three conditions and the intake of starch, cereals, and vegetables. If these findings could be generalised, and if the average daily consumption of these foods increased, it is speculated that an important decrease in symptom prevalence may be achieved.
11405631	A portion of an insertion sequence present in a member of the RIRE3 family of retrotransposons in Oryza sativa L. cv. IR36 was found to have an LTR sequence followed by a PBS sequence complementary to the 3'-end region of tRNAMet, indicative of another rice retrotransposon (named RIRE7). Cloning and sequencing of PCR-amplified fragments that made up all parts of the RIRE7 sequence showed that RIRE7 is a gypsy-type retrotransposon with partial homology in the pol region to the rice gypsy-type retrotransposons RIRE2 and RIRE3 identified in rice previously. Interestingly, various portions of the RIRE7 sequence were homologous to several DNA segments present in the centromere regions of cereal chromosomes. Further cloning and nucleotide sequencing of fragments flanking RIRE7 copies showed that RIRE7 was inserted into a site within a tandem repeat sequence that has a unit length of 155 bp. The tandem repeat sequence, named TrsD, was homologous to tandem repeat sequences RCS2 and CentC, previously identified in the centromeric regions of rice and maize chromosomes. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of the metaphase chromosomes of O. sativa cv. Nipponbare showed that both RIRE7 and TrsD sequences were present in the centromere regions of the chromosomes. The presence of RIRE7 and the TrsD sequences in the centromere regions of several chromosomes was confirmed by the identification of several YAC clones whose chromosomal locations are known. Further FISH analysis of rice pachytene chromosomes showed that the TrsD sequences were located in a pericentromeric heterochromatin region. These findings strongly suggest that RIRE7 and TrsD are components of the pericentromeric heterochromatin of rice chromosomes.
11406848	Diet is the first (and sometimes the only) therapeutic approach to hyperlipoproteinaemias. Rice bran oil and its main components (unsaturated fatty acids, triterpene alcohols, phytosterols, tocotrienols, alpha-tocopherol) have demonstrated an ability to improve the plasma lipid pattern of rodents, rabbits, non-human primates and humans, reducing total plasma cholesterol and triglyceride concentration and increasing the high density lipoprotein cholesterol level. Other potential properties of rice bran oil and gamma-oryzanol, studied both in vitro and in animal models, include modulation of pituitary secretion, inhibition of gastric acid secretion, antioxidant action and inhibition of platelet aggregation. This paper reviews the available data on the pharmacology and toxicology of rice bran oil and its main components with particular attention to those studies relating to plasma lipid altering effects.
11407023	Mathematical descriptors, coupled with experimental observations, are used to quantify differential uptake of an experimental herbicide in Japonica and Indica rice (Oryza sativa, non-target) and barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crus-galli, target). Partitioning, degradation, plant uptake and metabolism are described using mass-balance conservation equations in the form of kinetic approximations. Estimated environmental concentrations, governed by the pesticide formulation, are described using superimposed analytical solutions for the one-dimensional diffusion equation in spherical coordinates and by a finite difference representation of the two-dimensional diffusion equation in Cartesian coordinates. Formulation attributes from granules include active ingredient release rates, particle sizes, pesticide loading, and granule spacing. The diffusion model for pesticide transport is coupled with the compartment model to follow the fate and transport of a pesticide from its initial application location to various environmental matrices of interest. Formulation effects, partitioning and degradation in the various environmental matrices, differential plant uptake and metabolism, and dose-response information for plants are accounted for. This novel model provides a mechanism for selecting formulation delivery systems that optimize specific attributes (such as weed control or the therapeutic index) for risk-assessment procedures. In this report we describe how this methodology was used to explore the factors affecting herbicide efficacy and to define an optimal release rate for a granule formulation.
11407035	In order to develop a new method for measuring foliar uptake of fungicides, Congo Red was selected as a tracer, and optimum procedures were established for washing, extracting and analyzing it and fungicides from leaf surfaces. Congo Red, a water-soluble dye, was not absorbed into cucumber or rice leaf, even in the presence of various surfactants, and was completely washable from leaf surfaces by aqueous acetonitrile solutions. Congo Red and fungicides in washings were quantified to calculate the amount of foliar uptake of the latter, by comparing the ratio to Congo Red. The optimum concentration of Congo Red in a formulation should be established in order to minimize its influence on fungicide uptake. Although Congo Red has proved to be useful with a conventional droplet application method, it will give more realistic and practical results with the spraying method used in the present study.
11407587	It was demonstrated that a separation of 20 amino acids constituting a protein and three phosphoamino acids that mostly frequently occur in eukaryotes was achieved within 15 min by capillary electrophoresis coupled with lamp-induced fluorescence detection. Fluorescein isothiocyanate was employed as the fluorescence label to facilitate the fluorescence detection of the 23 amino acid species. The fluorescent derivatization conditions and separation parameters including concentration of electrolyte, surfactant in buffer, applied voltage and sample injection were investigated in detail and optimized. The influence of buffer additives such as methanol, acetone and polyvinylpyrrolidone on separation selectivity and sensitivity were discussed. We showed that addition of 2% polyvinylpyrrolidone into the running buffer could dramatically enhance the separation selectivity of amino acids at the expense of a decrease of sensitivity of phosphoamino acids. Under the optimized conditions, the detection limits (S/N=2) ranged from 1.90 x 10(-8) M to 5.66 x 10(-8) M with an average efficiency of 620,000/m. The method was applied to characterization of the phosphorylation of a novel protein kinase RCaMBP (calcium/calmodulin-binding protein kinase) encoded by a cDNA newly isolated and cloned from rice. We verified that RCaMBP belonged to a type of Ser/Thr kinase, providing insight into its function in signal transduction.
11407756	Plasticizer contamination of foods sold in retail packed lunches and set lunches in restaurants was determined by GC/MS. The phthalate esters were as follows: diethyl, dipropyl, dibutyl, dipentyl, dihexyl, butylbenzyl, dicyclohexyl, di(2-ethylhexyl), dioctyl, diisooctyl (mixture of isomers) and diisononyl (mixture). Di(2-ethylhexyl) adipate was also determined. Sixteen packed lunches and ten set lunches were analysed, and in all samples the concentration of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) was the highest, at 0.80-11.8 mg/kg in packed lunches and 0.012-0.30 mg/kg in set lunches. The DEHP content of five packed lunches exceeded 1.85 mg, which is the EU tolerable daily intake (TDI) for a person of 50 kg body weight. Foodstuffs that were components of the packed lunches were taken from the factory at each step of preparation and phthalates were determined. For example, chicken contained 0.08 mg/kg DEHP when uncooked, 13.1 mg/kg after frying and 16.9 mg/kg after packing. Disposable PVC gloves used in the preparation of foods were apparently the source of high DEHP concentrations. The gloves used during cooking or packaging were sprayed with 68% (w/w) ethanol to sterilize them. PVC gloves from the factory contained 22 or 41% by weight of DEHP. To confirm the link with the contamination problem, samples of boiled rice, croquette and boiled dry radish were handled in the laboratory with PVC gloves containing 30% (w/w) DEHP. DEHP migration levels of 0.05 mg/kg in rice or 0.33 mg/kg in croquette, and 11.1 mg/kg in radish were found. The alcohol sprayed onto the gloves increased the migration of DEHP to 2.03 mg/kg in rice, 2.45 mg, kg in croquette, and 18.4 mg/kg in radish.
11410071	The current understanding of the origin of atherosclerosis is that of an inflammatory process that involves the acute phase response -an innate biological response to a disturbance in homeostasis -infection, inflammation, tissue injury, neoplasm, or immune disturbance. The activation of the acute phase response, signaled by interleukin-6, produces proteins (fibrinogen, C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid A) that lead to inflammatory reactions. The tissues themselves contain elevated levels of acute phase proteins and cytokines resulting in a localized inflammatory effect. Localized inflammatory responses in the intimal layer of the arterial wall have been shown to be responsible for many of the aspects of intimal thickening and plaque disruption, leading to acute cardiovascular events. The predictive value of plasma C-reactive protein as a risk factor for cardiovascular events has led some researchers to support the use of CRP as a main cardiovascular risk assessment tool, along with total cholesterol:HDL ratios and homocysteine levels. The ability of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors to lower C-reactive protein levels has recently brought into question the mechanisms of action of the statin drugs. Because these medications lower incidences of acute cardiovascular events as well as decreasing morbidity and mortality well before the effects of lowered LDL cholesterol can be expected to occur, questions have been asked about whether they may work independently of LDL-lowering mechanisms. Red yeast rice contains a naturally-occurring statin (lovastatin) as well as other cholesterol-lowering compounds, some with antioxidant effects. Alpha-tocopherol also significantly lowers CRP levels in diabetics and nondiabetics, and minimizes other aspects of the acute phase response and inflammatory damage involved in atherosclerosis. This may account for alpha-tocopherol's positive effect on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Finally, polyphenolic compounds present in virgin olive oil also have anti-inflammatory and antioxidative effects in cardiovascular disease. The phenolic compounds in virgin olive oil may explain some of the protective effects found in epidemiological studies.
11410350	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is an important plant pathogen which causes bacterial blight of rice. To facilitate genome studies of this bacterium, we have constructed a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library of strain MAFF 311018. It consisted of 750 clones representing 16 genome equivalents, and had an insert size ranging from 20 to 220 kb with an average size of 107 kb. This library is the first to be constructed from a X. oryzae pv. oryzae strain. The usefulness of this library was demonstrated through polymerase chain reaction screening of 11 genes and the 16S--23S rDNA spacer region in a 192-clone subset, representing five genome equivalents. The results obtained showed an average of 5.9 BAC clones per screening. This result is in good agreement with the estimated size of the test library, indicating that the constructed BAC library can be used to facilitate genome analysis of X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
11410460	Paddy fields are one of the dominant anthropogenic sources of methane emission to the atmosphere, and the main passageway of methane from paddy soil is through the rice plant. However, the effect of aquatic weeds on methane emission from rice paddies has not been properly evaluated yet. Methane emission from weeded pots and unweeded ones with anaerobic paddy soil was measured throughout the period of rice growth. More than double the amount of methane was emitted from weeded pots compared with unweeded ones. Peroxidase activity of rice root was not different between weeded and unweeded pots. However, methanogenic bacteria populations were higher in weeded pots than in unweeded ones, while methane oxidation activity, measured by the propylene oxidation technique, was higher in unweeded pots than in weeded ones. Methane oxidation activity of roots from three typical aquatic weeds in paddy fields, Lipocarpha sp., Rotala indica, and Ludwigia epilobioides, was higher than that of rice plants, while lower stems of these aquatic plants showed similar or lower activity compared with the same areas of rice plants. These results indicate that the role of aquatic weeds in paddy soil in methane emission should not be overlooked in evaluating mitigation options for reducing methane emission from paddy fields.
11410470	Correlations were examined between habitat characters and clonal structures determined by the RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) assay in five populations of Oryza rufipogon in China. Nine of 175 decameric primers were used in the study because they reproducibly amplified polymorphisms. The extent of clonality together with the clonal and sexual reproductive strategies varied greatly among the five populations and correlated with the habitats where they occur. The populations under serious disturbance or seasonal drought tended to have small clones with relatively high clonal diversity caused by sexual reproduction, whereas the populations with little disturbance and sufficient supply of water were prone to have large clones with relatively low clonal variation and low sexual reproduction. Therefore, the dynamics of sexual vs. clonal reproduction of this species depended mainly on environmental factors, such as external disturbance and water supply, rather than latitudes indicated by previous study. These results have important implications for in situ conservation of O. rufipogon. Adequate external disturbance and water supply control are essential for maintaining high clone diversity of in situ conserved populations. According to the extent of clonality of the populations examined, we recommend that an interval of >12 m should be required for collecting samples for ex situ conservation and for population genetic studies to capture possible genetic diversity for O. rufipogon in China.
1141142	Residues of isopropyl (2E,4E)-11-methoxy-3,7,11-trimethyl-2,4-dodecadienoate (Altosid) insect growth regulator are determined in waters, soils, plants, milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, poultry and cattle tissues, blood, urine, and feces. Acetonitrile is the primary extraction solvent for all samples. Residues are extracted by high-speed blending followed by vacuum filtration. Fatty extracts are subjected to cold-temperature precipitation and filtration. Samples are cleaned up by petroleum ether partitioning and Florisil and neutral alumina chromatography. The concentrated eluants are analyzed by gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) on columns of differing polarity, using hydrogen flame ionization detectors. The identity of suspected residues is confirmed by additional GLC and by mass fragmentography. The lower limits of detection were: water samples, 0.0004-0.001 ppm; soils, blood, and urine, 0.001 ppm; forage grasses, forage legumes, and rice foliage, 0.005 ppm; and milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, poultry and cattle tissues, and feces, 0.010 ppm.
1141185	A residue method has been developed which is capable of determining not only 2,4-dichloro-1-(4-nitrophenoxy)-benzene but a majority of the known metabolites of this compound. The residues are reduced to a common amine intermediate which is further derivatized and quantitatively measured by electron capture gas-liquid chromatography. The method is sensitive to 0.01 ppm and is readily suited to routine use. The method has been used on rice and wheat samples.
11413828	A study to monitor the composting process, to evaluate the effectiveness of bioindicators for the quality and maturity of cured compost obtained by a mixture of winery residues, sludges from dairies and solid residues from food processing (grape-stalks, grape-dregs, rice husks), was conducted. Composting process lasting five months was monitored by chemico-physical, spectroscopic (FTIR, DTG and DSC), microbiological and enzymatic analyses. Biological activities (ATP, DHA contents and several enzymatic activities), impedance variations (DT) of mixed cultures during growth and potential pathogens (E. coli and Salmonella sp.), were determined. The phytotoxicity tests gave a germination index higher than 90% and no significant genotoxic differences between controls and the compost samples were evidenced. Pathogens were not found on the cured compost that can therefore be satisfactorily used as amendment for agricultural crops. However, no single measurement of a composting process factor, biological, chemical or physical, gave a comprehensive view of the quality of a specific composting. We proposed a tool of bioindicators of potential activity and markers in combination for integrated evaluation of monitoring of composting process and compost quality. The responses of several enzymatic activities were positive and indicative of their favorable use capable to reveal even very small changes within microbial population and activity in test and monitoring of compost programmes.
11415488	To assess the association between nutrition and health in an adult urban homeless population. Cross-sectional--nutritional state (body mass index (BMI), triceps skinfold (TSF), upper arm circumference), dietary habits (food frequency), socio-demographic data and self-stated diseases were assessed. Four sites for homeless people in Kiel and Hamburg, Germany. Sample of 75 homeless people (60 males, 15 females) aged 19-62 years. A lack of food was not found in the majority of the homeless. Seventy-six per cent of the study population showed a normal dietary pattern. Critical food groups were fresh fruit and vegetables, rice and noodles. However, 52 or 29% of the homeless were malnourished (i.e. they were below the 25th or 5th percentile of arm muscle area). In addition, 22.7% of the homeless were obese (i.e. BMI>30 kg m-2 and/or TSF>90th percentile). Almost two-thirds of the population suffered from at least one chronic disease (prevalence of nutrition-related disorders 33.3%, gastrointestinal disorders 32.0%, dental diseases 22.7%, psychiatric disorders 18.7%, wasting diseases 6.7%). Smoking (prevalence rate 82%), drinking alcohol (51%) and drug abuse (20%) were frequent among homeless people. Food intake was not related to nutritional state, the prevalence of chronic diseases or addiction habits. By contrast, a poor nutritional state was associated with drug abuse and the prevalence of wasting diseases. Prevention of nutritional problems should be directed to health-related problems such as the prevention or treatment of chronic diseases and addiction habits.
11415723	INTRODUCTION:: The purpose of the study was to compare range of motion (ROM) and plantar loading parameters pre and post surgical intervention for hallux valgus (HV). Fifteen female patients volunteered for the study, providing 27 feet with a diagnosis of moderate or severe HV deformity (greater than 26 degrees HV angle). All participants were screened by the same orthopaedic surgeon to ensure that no other foot deformities or neuromuscular diseases were present that would alter lower extremity biomechanics. Prior to surgery, each patient filled out a five-part questionnaire on previous medical history, description and location of symptoms, perceived pain and current functional status. Radiographs were taken from the dorsoplantar and oblique aspects with the patient weight bearing. HV and intermeditarsal angle (IM) were measured from the radiographs. Seated talocrural and first metatarsophalangeal (MP) joint active and passive (ROM) were measured with a hand-held goniometer as described by Norkin and White (1985). Plantar loading patterns were assessed using barefoot for the involved limb using the two step method as described by Meyers-Rice et al. (1992). Data was collected using a capacitive pressure measurement platform (EMED SD Pedography Analyzer, Novel GmbH, Munich) and stored for further analysis. The pressure platform consisted of a 32 x 62 sensor matrix with a resolution of 2 sensor/cm(2). The sampling rate of the platform was fixed at 70 Hz and auto triggered upon first contact. Five acceptable trials were collected for each subject. All of the following were conducted again eight weeks after a Chevron-Aikin Osteotomy surgical correction for HV. Each step was analysed by dividing the foot into seven plantar regions: heel (HL), midfoot (MF), medial forefoot (MFF), central forefoot (CFF), lateral forefoot (LFF), medial toe (MT) and lateral toe (LT). The following variables for each region were generated via the Novel-win software: peak force (%BW), peak pressure (Kpa), length of contact (ms), pressure time integral (Kpa(*)s), force time integral (%BW(*)s), instant of peak pressure (ms) and instant of peak force (ms). A repeated measures multivariate analysis of variance was used to detect differences in each loading and ROM measure before and after surgery. Post surgically, patients indicated that they had less pain and a higher rating of functional status (p<0.05). Differences were found in active dorsiflexion, active plantar flexion, and passive plantar flexion of the MP joint (p<0.05). No differences were found in talocrural ROM or MP neutral position. Radiographic measures indicated that HV and IM angles were changed following surgery (p<0.05). The average correction for HV angle was 14.0 degrees and 4.6 degrees for IM angle. No differences in loading were found for the HL, MF, MFF regions post surgically. Force time integrals increased from 15.7 BW(*)s to 18.8 BW(*)s post surgically in the CFF region (p<0.05). The LFF region exhibited a greater peak force (22.12 %BW vs. 27.12 %BW), force time integral (7.14 %BW(*)s vs. 9.04 %BW(*)s), pressure time integral (9.24 N/cm2(*)s vs. 12.10 N/cm2(*)s), instant to peak force (520.73 ms vs. 592.03 ms) and instant to peak pressure (548.40 ms vs. 607.97 ms) post surgically (p<0.05). Peak force and peak pressure decreased from 15.11 %BW to 6.92 %BW and 423.24 Kpa to 158.00 Kpa, respectively post surgically (p<0.05). Force time integrals decreased from 3.90 %BW(*)s to 1.72 %BW(*)s and pressure time integrals decreased from 10.41 Kpa(*)s to 4.40 Kpa(*)s post surgically (p<0.05). Contact time in the LT region increased from 627.57 ms to 575.33 ms post surgically (p<0.05). All pain scale and functional status measures improved eight weeks post surgically. Dorsiflexion ROM for the MP joint were decreased post surgically but were still adequate for gait (Hetherington et al., 1990). Loading variables indicated that, post surgically, the foot was loaded more laterally with less load on the hallux. Further research is needed to assess if the lateral loading pattern continues long term after Chevron-Aikin Osteotomy surgical correction for HV.
11416158	Hd6 is a quantitative trait locus involved in rice photoperiod sensitivity. It was detected in backcross progeny derived from a cross between the japonica variety Nipponbare and the indica variety Kasalath. To isolate a gene at Hd6, we used a large segregating population for the high-resolution and fine-scale mapping of Hd6 and constructed genomic clone contigs around the Hd6 region. Linkage analysis with P1-derived artificial chromosome clone-derived DNA markers delimited Hd6 to a 26.4-kb genomic region. We identified a gene encoding the alpha subunit of protein kinase CK2 (CK2 alpha) in this region. The Nipponbare allele of CK2 alpha contains a premature stop codon, and the resulting truncated product is undoubtedly nonfunctional. Genetic complementation analysis revealed that the Kasalath allele of CK2 alpha increases days-to-heading. Map-based cloning with advanced backcross progeny enabled us to identify a gene underlying a quantitative trait locus even though it exhibited a relatively small effect on the phenotype.
11417915	Mung bean, adzuki bean, black bean and rice bean are foods and folk medicines of Taiwan. We evaluated the effects of various water extract concentrations (100, 500 and 1000 mg/kg body wt.) and silymarin (25 mg/kg body wt. on acetaminophen-induced liver injury by measuring serum glutamate-oxalate-transaminase (sGOT) and serum glutamate-pyruvate-transaminase (sGPT) activities in rats. The results showed that the sGOT and the sGPT activities, increased by APAP, were decreased significantly (P < 0.05) through treatment with inceasing amounts up to 1000 mg/kg body wt. of the exracts. In particular, the mung bean aqueous extract showed the best hepatoprotective effect on APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. The pathological changes of liver injury caused by APAP improved by the treatment with all of the legume extracts, which were compared to silymarin as a standardized drug. In addition to these results, the extract of mung bean acted as a potential hepatoprotective agent in dietary supply.
11418240	A promiscuous nuclear sequence containing a mitochondrial DNA fragment was isolated from rice. Nucleotide sequence analysis reveals that the cDNA clone #21 carries a mitochondrial sequence homologous to the 3' portion of the rps19 gene followed by the 5' portion of the rps3 gene. The mitochondrial sequence is present in an antisense orientation. Sequence comparison of the #21 cDNA with the original mitochondrial sequence shows 99% similarity, suggesting a recent transfer event. Moreover, evidence for a lack of an RNA editing event and retaining of the group II intron sequence strongly suggests that the sequence was transferred from mitochondrion to the nucleus via DNA rather than RNA as an intermediate. The upstream region to the mitochondria-derived sequence shows homology to part of the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase B subunit (V-ATPase B) gene. Isolation of a functional V-ATPase B cDNA and its comparison with the #21 cDNA reveal a number of nucleotide substitutions resulting in many translational stop codons in the #21 cDNA. This indicates that the #21 cDNA sequence is not functional. Analysis of genomic sequences shows the presence of five intron sequences in the #21 cDNA, whereas the functional V-ATPase B gene has 14 introns. Of these, three exons and their internal two introns are homologous to each other, suggesting a duplication event of V-ATPase B genomic DNA. The results of this investigation strongly suggest that the mitochondrial sequence was integrated in an antisense orientation into the pre-existing V-ATPase B pseudogene that can be transcribed and spliced. This represents a case of unsuccessful gene transfer from mitochondrion to the nucleus.
11419131	The Brantas is one of Indonesia's most important catchments. It is the "rice bowl" of Java and nationally important for its industrial activity. Surabaya, Indonesia's second largest city, is located at the mouth of the Brantas River which is pivotal to the city's water supply. The challenges associated with the institutional framework for natural resource management in East Java parallels that of many states and provinces around the globe. It is multi-layered and complex. Integrated Catchment Management (ICM) may be defined as "the co-ordinated and sustainable management of land, water, soil vegetation, fauna and other natural resources on a water catchment basis". Over a period of six months, an ICM Strategy was researched and facilitated for the Brantas River Catchment in East Java via a short term advisor attachment. The aim of the Strategy is to improve coordination, co-operation, communication and consistency of government and community efforts towards sustaining the catchment's environmental, economic and social values. The attachment was part of the Pollution Control Implementation (PCI) Project funded by AusAid and the Indonesian Government. The ICM Strategy developed was broad based and addressed the priority natural resource management issues facing the Brantas Catchment. It was co-ordinated by BAPEDALDA, the Provincial Environmental Protection Agency, and developed by all agencies involved in natural resource management in the catchment. Various Universities and Non Government Organisations (NGOs) were also involved in the ICM process which developed the Strategy. At the conclusion of the attachment, a draft ICM Strategy and a proposed institutional framework had been developed. A working group of key agencies was also established to further enhance local "ownership", finalise timescales and implementation responsibilities within the Strategy and bring the institutional arrangements into being through a Governor's Decree.
11419956	The two-headed motor protein kinesin hydrolyzes ATP and moves on microtubule tracks towards the plus end. The motor develops speeds and forces of the order of hundreds of nanometers per second and piconewtons, respectively. Recently, the dependence of the velocity, the dissociation rate and the displacement variance on the load and the ATP concentration were measured in vitro for individual kinesin molecules (Coppin et al., 1997; Visscher et al., 1999) over a wide range of forces. The structural changes in the kinesin motor that drive motility were discovered by Rice et al. (1999). Here we present a phenomenological model for force generation in kinesin based on the bi-stable, nucleotide-dependent behavior of the neck linker. We demonstrate that the model explains the mechanical, kinetic and statistical (experimental) data of Coppin et al. (1997). We also discuss the relationship between the model results and experimental data of Visscher et al. (1999).
11420002
11421077	Previously, two pools of phytochrome A (phyA' and phyA") have been detected by in situ low-temperature fluorescence spectroscopy and photochemistry; it was suggested that they might differ in the nature of their posttranslational modification. In order to verify this possibility Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza) phyA were expressed in yeast and the pigments were assembled in vivo with phycocyanobilin (PCB) and phytochromobilin (P phi B). The resulting recombinant phytochromes in the red-light-absorbing form (Pr) were characterized in the yeast cell by (1) the fluorescence emission spectra; (2) the temperature dependence of Pr fluorescence intensity and activation energy of fluorescence decay; and (3) the extent of photoconversion of Pr into photoproduct lumi-R (gamma 1) or far-red-light absorbing form (Pfr) (gamma 2). Both Arabidopsis phyA/PCB and Oryza phyA/P phi B had low gamma 1 of ca 0.05, allowing their attribution to the Pr" phenomenological type of phytochrome comprising phyA", phyB and cryptogam phytochromes. The spectroscopic properties of Oryza phyA/P phi B were also very close to phyA". However, both investigated holoproteins differed from phyA", both with respect to the character of temperature dependence of the fluorescence yield and activation energy. Thus, recombinant Oryza phyA/P phi B is similar but not identical to phyA". The data demonstrate that the low-abundance-fraction plant phyA (phyA") comes from the same gene as the major (phyA') fraction. Because both endogenous phyA fractions differ from the phytochrome expressed in yeast, they appear to be posttranslationally modified and/or bound to partner proteins or cellular substructures. However, the character of the presumed chemical modification is different in phyA' and phyA" and its extent is more profound in the case of the former.
11421421	We present the case of an 8-month-old boy with failure to thrive and hypoalbuminaemia due to protein malnutrition caused by the replacement of milk by a rice drink. All symptoms resolved with an appropriate feeding. Rice drinks are no alternatives to infant milk formulas and carry a serious risk for the development of protein malnutrition.
11422316	The soil temperature in flooded Italian rice fields is generally lower than 30 degrees C. However, two temperature optima at approximately 41 degrees C and 50 degrees C were found when soil slurries were anoxically incubated at a temperature range of 10-80 degrees C. The second temperature optimum indicates the presence of thermophilic methanogens in the rice field soil. Experiments with 14C-labelled bicarbonate showed that the thermophilic CH4 was exclusively produced from H2/CO2. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) of archaeal SSU rRNA gene fragments revealed a dramatic change in the archaeal community structure at temperatures > 37 degrees C, with the euryarchaeotal rice cluster I becoming the dominant group (about 80%). A clone library of archaeal SSU rRNA gene fragments generated at 49 degrees C was also dominated (10 out of 11 clones) by rice cluster I. Our results demonstrate that Italian rice field soil contains thermophilic methanogenic activity that was most probably a result of members of the as yet uncultivated euryarchaeotal rice cluster I.
11422512	Using a PCR-based method, we detected Wolbachia in the Asian rice gall midge. Furthermore, results showed that all females across all biotypes are infected with Wolbachia. However, all male flies are not infected and show different infection frequency in different biotypes. We have also identified three mitotypes, in the rice gall midge, based on DraI restriction pattern of a portion of the 12S rRNA gene that was PCR amplified using primers specific to this gene. All the females and infected male flies had type 1 mtDNA while uninfected males showed only type 2 or 3 mtDNA. Inheritance patterns of mtDNA revealed the existence of a correlation between mtDNA type and Wolbachia infection in the Asian rice gall midge. Evidence for paternal inheritance of mtDNA in Wolbachia-free gall midge is also presented.
11425720	When a combination of hydrogen peroxide and hypochlorite was used to surface sterilize rice seeds, a 10(2)- to 10(4)-fold decrease in CFU was observed during the first 15 h after inoculation of the rice rhizosphere organism Burkholderia vietnamiensis TVV75. This artifact could not be eliminated simply by rinsing the seeds, even thoroughly, with sterile distilled water. When growth resumed, a significant increase in the frequency of rifampin- and nalidixic acid-resistant mutants in the population was observed compared to the control without seeds. This phenomenon was a specific effect of hypochlorite; it was not observed with hydrogen peroxide alone. It was also not observed when the effect of hypochlorite was counteracted by sodium thiosulfate. We hypothesized that the hypochlorite used for disinfection reacted with the rice seed surface, forming a chlorine cover which was not removed by rinsing and generated mutagenic chloramines. We studied a set of rifampin- and nalidixic acid-resistant mutants obtained after seed surface sterilization. The corresponding rpoB and gyrA genes were amplified and sequenced to characterize the induced mutations. The mutations in five of seven nalidixic acid-resistant mutants and all of the rifampin-resistant mutants studied were found to correspond to single amino acid substitutions. Hypochlorite surface sterilization can thus be a source of artifacts when the initial bacterial colonization of a plant is studied.
11430414	The study of methane-oxidising bacteria (methanotrophs) is of special interest, because of their role in the natural reduction of methane emissions from many different sources. Therefore new probes were developed to detect specifically either type I (Methylococcaceae) or type II methanotrophs (Methylocystaceae). The probes have shown high specificity in fluorescence in situ hybridisations (FISH), as demonstrated by parallel hybridisation of target and reference strains as well as sequence data analysis. With these probes, methanotrophs were detected in soil and root samples from rice microcosms, demonstrating their applicability even in a complex environmental matrix.
11430426	Pre-harvest sprouting (PHS) in sorghum is related to the lack of a normal dormancy level during seed development and maturation. Based on previous evidence that seed dormancy in maize is controlled by the vp1 gene, we used a PCR-based approach to isolate two Sorghum bicolor genomic and cDNA clones from two genotypes exhibiting different PHS behaviour and sensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA). The two 699 amino acid predicted protein sequences differ in two residues at positions 341 (Gly or Cys within the repression domain) and 448 (Pro or Ser) and show over 80, 70 and 60% homology to maize, rice and oat VP1 proteins respectively. Expression analysis of the sorghum vp1 gene in the two lines shows a slightly higher level of vp1 mRNA in the embryos susceptible to PHS than in those resistant to PHS during embryogenesis. However, timing of expression was different between these genotypes during this developmental process. Whereas for the former the main peak of expression was observed at 20 days after pollination (DAP), the peak in the latter was found at later developmental stages when seed maturation was almost complete. Under favourable germination conditions and in the presence of fluridone (an inhibitor of ABA biosynthesis), sorghum vp1 mRNA showed to be consistently correlated with sensitivity to ABA but not with ABA content and dormancy.
11430708	In past studies, patients with cholera and cholera-like diarrhoea treated with rice oral rehydration solution (ORS) had lower purging rates and a shorter illness duration. We evaluated a new packet form of rice ORS (CeraLyte-90) in 167 boys aged 5 to 15 y, with acute, dehydrating cholera and cholera-like diarrhoea in Bangladesh. The patients were randomized to receive either CeraLyte-90 (n = 85) or glucose ORS (n = 82) and were given early feeding and early antibiotics. The efficacy of the two solutions was compared for stool output during the first 8 h, the first 24 h, and total output, duration of diarrhoea, hematocrit, serum electrolytes and requirement for unscheduled intravenous fluids. The clinical and laboratory characteristics of the two groups were comparable on admission, and most of the patients had cholera (88% and 84% in the CeraLyte and glucose groups, respectively). The mean (+/- SE) stool output was 20% less in the rice ORS group during the first 8 h of treatment (86.2+/-6.6 ml/Kg vs 108.8+/-7.9 ml/Kg, p < 0.05), but the outputs during the other time periods were similar in the two groups, although children in the rice ORS group had slightly more vomiting on day one (p < 0.05). The mean serum electrolyte concentrations in both groups of children remained within normal range. The study documents the safety and efficacy of the new, packaged rice ORS.
11431987	RFLP markers were employed to test whether the individuals possess wide compatibility genes (WCGs) in the progenies of Dular, which is one of the typical wide compatibility varieties in ecotype Aus rice. Meanwhile the characteristics of WCGs were also analysed. The results are shown as follows: (1) the effect of WCG at S-5 locus is better than the others, (2) the combination of different wide compatibility loci is obviously effective in increasing the spikelet fertility, (3) intraallelic interaction can cause japonica macrospore abortive, while interallelic interaction has some effects in fertility expression.
11432928	To identify senescence-associated genes (SAGs) in rice leaves, senescence was induced by transferring rice seedlings into darkness. Senescence up-regulated cDNAs were obtained by PCR-based subtractive hybridization. Among 14 SAG clones characterized, 11 were found to be associated with both dark-induced and natural leaf senescence. Three clones were associated only with dark-induced leaf senescence. The possible physiological roles of these SAGs during rice leaf senescence are discussed.
11432936	Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) was detected cytochemically in plant tissues during anoxia and re-oxygenation by transmission electron microscopy using its reaction with cerium chloride to produce electron dense precipitates of cerium perhydroxides. Anoxia-tolerant yellow flag iris (Iris pseudacorus) and rice (Oryza sativa), and anoxia-intolerant wheat (Triticum aestivum) and garden iris (Iris germanica) were used in the experiments. In all plants tested, anoxia and re-oxygenation increased H2O2 in plasma membranes and the apoplast. In the anoxia-tolerant species the response was delayed in time, and in highly tolerant I. pseudacorus plasma membrane associated H2O2 was detected only after 45 d of oxygen deprivation. Quantification of cerium precipitates showed a statistically significant increase in the amount of H2O2 caused by anoxia in wheat root meristematic tissue, but not in the anoxia-tolerant I. pseudacorus rhizome parenchyma. Formation of H2O2 under anoxia is considered mainly an enzymatic process (confirmed by an enzyme inhibition analysis) and is due to the trace amount of dissolved oxygen (below 10(-5) M) present in the experimental system. The data suggest oxidative stress is an integral part of oxygen deprivation stress, and emphasize the importance of the apoplast and plasma membrane in the development of the anoxic stress response.
11432939	Ninety-eight backcross inbred lines (BC1F6) developed between Nipponbare, a japonica rice, and Kasalath, an indica rice were employed to detect putative quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with the contents of cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1; EC 6.3.1.2) and NADH-glutamate synthase (NADH-GOGAT; EC 1.4.1.14) in leaves. Immunoblotting analyses showed transgressive segregations toward lower or greater contents of these enzyme proteins in these backcross inbred lines. Seven chromosomal QTL regions for GS1 protein content and six for NADH-GOGAT protein content were detected. Some of these QTLs were located in QTL regions for various biochemical and physiological traits affected by nitrogen recycling. These findings suggested that the variation in GS1 and NADH-GOGAT protein contents in this population is related to the changes in the rate of nitrogen recycling from senescing organs to developing organs, leading to changes in these physiological traits. Furthermore, a structural gene for GS1 was mapped between two RFLP markers, C560 and C1408, on chromosome 2 and co-located in the QTL region for one-spikelet weight. A QTL region for NADH-GOGAT protein content was detected at the position mapped for the NADH-GOGAT structural gene on chromosome 1. A QTL region for soluble protein content in developing leaves was also detected in this region. Although fine mapping is required to identify individual genes in the future, QTL analysis could be a useful post-genomic tool to study the gene functions for regulation of nitrogen recycling in rice.
11434461	RAPD, RFLP, nuclear SSLP and chloroplast SSLP analyses were carried out to clarify the phylogenetic relationships among A-genome species of rice. In total, 12 cultivars of Oryza sativa (4 Japonica, 3 Javanica and 5 Indica), one cultivar of O. glaberrima, and 17 wild accessions (12 O. rufipogon, 2 O. glumaepatula, 1 O. longistaminata, 1 O. meridionalis and 1 O. barthii) were used. Their banding patterns were scored and compared to evaluate the similarity between accessions. Genetic differentiation within and between taxa was examined based on the average similarity indices. Except for chloroplast SSLP analysis, the average similarities were higher within O. sativa than within O. rufipogon, and O. sativa Indica had greater intrasubspecific variation than Japonica and Javanica. Comparisons between cultivated and wild species showed that O. sativa was closely related to O. rufipogon, while O. glaberrima was closely related to O. barthii. This indicated that two cultivated species, O. sativa and O. glaberrima, originated from O. rufipogon and O. barthii, respectively. Domestication of O. sativa seemed to be diphyletic, since strong similarity was observed between O. sativa Japonica-Javanica and O. rufipogon from China and between O. sativa Indica and O. rufipogon from tropical Asia. In addition, dendrograms for RAPD, RFLP, and nuclear and chloroplast SSLP analyses were constructed to reveal the overall genetic relationships among A-genome species. In all analyses, O. sativa and O. glaberrima formed groups with O. rufipogon and O. barthii, respectively. However, their manners of clustering with other wild species were not the same. The results of RAPD and RFLP analyses indicate that O. glumaepatula was relatively close to the groups of O. sativa and O. glaberrima whereas O. longistaminata and O. meridionalis were highly differentiated from other A-genome species. On the other hand, clear interspecific relationships were not obtained by nuclear or chloroplast SSLP analyses.
11435398	The nucleotide sequence was determined for a 340-kb segment of rice chromosome 2, revealing 56 putative protein-coding genes. This represents a density of one gene per 6.1 kb, which is higher than was reported for a previously sequenced segment of the rice genome. Sixteen of the putative genes were supported by matches to ESTs. The predicted products of 29 of the putative genes showed similarity to known proteins, and a further 17 genes showed similarity only to predicted or hypothetical proteins identified in genome sequence data. The region contains a few transposable elements: one retrotransposon, and one transposon. The segment of the rice genome studied had previously been identified as representing a part of rice chromosome 2 that may be homologous to a segment of Arabidopsis chromosome 4. We confirmed the conservation of gene content and order between the two genome segments. In addition, we identified a further four segments of the Arabidopsis genome that contain conserved gene content and order. In total, 22 of the 56 genes identified in the rice genome segment were represented in this set of Arabidopsis genome segments, with at least five genes present, in conserved order, in each segment. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that the Arabidopsis genome has undergone multiple duplication events. Our results demonstrate that conservation of the genome microstructure can be identified even between monocot and dicot species. However, the frequent occurrence of duplication, and subsequent microstructure divergence, within plant genomes may necessitate the integration of subsets of genes present in multiple redundant segments to deduce evolutionary relationships and identify orthologous genes.
11436193	The purpose of this study was to determine whether pre-exercise ingestion of meals with moderate and high glycemic indexes (GI) affects glucose availability during exercise and exercise performance time. Six male volunteers (22 +/- 1 years; 80.4 +/- 3.7 kg; VO(2peak), 54.3 +/- 1.2 ml. kg(-1). min(-1)) ingested 75 g of carbohydrate in the form of 2 different breakfast cereals, rolled oats (moderate GI, approximately 61; MOD-GI) or puffed rice (high GI, approximately 82; HI-GI), combined with 300 mL of water; or water alone (control). The trials were randomized, and the meals were ingested 45 minutes before the subjects performed cycling exercise (60% VO(2peak)) to exhaustion. Venous blood samples were drawn to measure glucose, free fatty acids (FFAs), glycerol, insulin (INS), epinephrine (EPI) and norepinephrine (NE) concentrations. A muscle biopsy specimen was obtained from the vastus lateralis before the meal and immediately after exercise for glycogen determination. Before exercise, both test meals elicited significant (P <.05) hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia compared with control. The glycemic response was higher (P <.05) at the start of exercise after the HI-GI meal than after the control. During exercise, plasma glucose levels were higher (P <.05) at 60 (5.2 +/- 0.1, 4.2 +/- 0.2, and 4.6 +/- 0.1 mmol. L(-1)) and 90 (4.8 +/- 0.1, 4.1 +/- 0.1, and 4.3 +/- 0.1 mmol. L(-1)) minutes after the MOD-GI meal than after either the HI-GI or control. Total carbohydrate oxidation was greater (P <.05) during the MOD-GI trial than in control and was directly correlated with exercise performance time (r =.95, P <.0001). Pre-exercise plasma FFA levels were suppressed (P <.05) 30 and 45 minutes after ingestion of the HI-GI meal and 45 minutes after the MOD-GI meal compared with control. At 30, 60, and 120 minutes of exercise, FFAs remained suppressed (P <.05) for both test meals compared with control. At exhaustion, plasma glucose, INS, FFA, glycerol, EPI, and NE levels and muscle glycogen use were not different for all trials. Exercise time was prolonged (P <.05) after the MOD-GI meal compared with control, but the HI-GI trial was not different from control (MOD-GI, 165 +/- 11; HI-GI, 141 +/- 8; control, 134 +/- 13 minutes). Thus, in contrast to the HI-GI meal or control, the MOD-GI breakfast cereal ingested 45 minutes before exercise enhanced performance time, maintained euglycemia for a longer period during exercise, and resulted in greater total carbohydrate oxidation during the exercise bout. We conclude that a MOD-GI meal provides a significant performance and metabolic advantage when consumed 45 minutes before exercise.
11436587	The dynamics of reinfection by Schistosoma haematobium and Schistosoma mansoni after repeated treatment with praziquantel (40 mg/kg body weight, single dose) was studied in a cohort of schoolchildren living in an endemic area. A total of 214 urine and 220 stool samples were collected and examined at three different times, i.e., February 1989, July 1989 and February 1990. Mass chemotherapy was administered at the beginning of study (February 89). Treatment was repeated in children with positive tests at each subsequent sampling. Prevalence rates were 55.1 p. 100, 3.7 p. 100, and 35.0 p. 100 for Schistosoma haematobium and 62.7 p. 100, 46.3 p. 100 and 73.1 p. 100 for Schistosoma mansoni in February 1989, July 1989 and February 1990 respectively (p < 0.001). From July 1989 to February 1990, reinfection was observed in 84.5 p. 100 of children by Schistosoma haematobium versus 57.8 p. 100 by Schistosoma mansoni. The risk of reinfection by Schistosoma haematobium was higher in children between the ages of 7 and 10 years than in children between the ages of 11 and 15 years (p < 0.001), The incidence of intense Schistosoma haematobium egg excretion rose from 0 p. 100 in July 1989 to 6.0 p. 100 in February 1990. The incidence of intense Schistosoma mansoni excretion in February 1990 was 4.5 p. 100. The reinfection rate at 7 months was over 50 p. 100 for both parasite species despite repeated treatment. This finding demonstrates that additional measures such as proper sanitation and vector control are needed to control human schistosomiasis in irrigated rice paddies.
11437248	With a homologous gene region we successfully isolated a Na+/H+ antiporter gene from a halophytic plant, Atriplex gmelini, and named it AgNHX1. The isolated cDNA is 2607 bp in length and contains one open reading frame, which comprises 555 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 61.9 kDa. The amino acid sequence of the AgNHX1 gene showed more than 75% identity with those of the previously isolated NHX1 genes from glycophytes, Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. The migration pattern of AgNHX1 was shown to correlate with H+-pyrophosphatase and not with P-type H+-ATPase, suggesting the localization of AgNHX1 in a vacuolar membrane. Induction of the AgNHX1 gene was observed by salt stress at both mRNA and protein levels. The expression of the AgNHX1 gene in the yeast mutant, which lacks the vacuolar-type Na+/H+ antiporter gene (NHX1) and has poor viability under the high-salt conditions, showed partial complementation of the NHX1 functions. These results suggest the important role of the AgNHX1 products for salt tolerance.
11437252	During rice seed development, prolamine RNAs are localized to the surface of the prolamine storage protein bodies (PBs), organelles bounded by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The exact mechanism by which prolamine RNAs are enriched on this ER subdomain is not known but recent evidence indicates the directed transport and targeting of prolamine RNAs to the prolamine PBs. As such a process involves RNA signal determinants and cytoskeleton-interacting proteins that recognize these signals, we obtained an enriched cytoskeleton-PB fraction and identified a prominent RNA-binding activity, Rp120, by RNA-binding UV-cross-linking assay. Recombinant cDNA clones of Rp120 revealed that the primary sequence shared considerable structural homology to the human transcriptional coactivator p100 and possessed a modular organization, four nucleic acid-binding SN domains, a tudor domain and a coil-coil domain. Consistent with the presence of SN domains, Rp120 binds a variety of RNAs including prolamine RNA. Interaction with the latter RNA, however, was specific as binding activity was evident only to the prolamine 3' UTR and not to the 5' UTR or coding sequences. Rp120 is also able to interact with other proteins as its sedimentation behavior in sucrose density gradient suggests an association with the cytoskeleton. The presence of a tudor domain, suggested to have a role in RNA processing or transport, together with the SN and coiled-coil domains are consistent with the view that Rp120 may be involved in RNA sorting in rice endosperm.
11437261	A partial cDNA with homology to the PR-10 class of pathogenesis-related proteins was used to screen a rice genomic library. One 16-kb genomic clone contained three genes with PR-10 similarity. These genes, RPR10a, RPR10b, and RPR10c, were arranged in tandem and separated by approximately 2.5 kb. RPR10a cDNA was obtained by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and sequence analysis revealed that RPR10a and RPR10b encode predicted proteins of 158 and 160 amino acids, respectively, and share 71% amino acid identity. RPR10c appears to be a nonfunctional pseudogene. Gene-specific probes were used to study transcript accumulations of the three RPR10 genes in rice plants following inoculation with Magnaporthe grisea. RPR10a transcripts were induced from a low basal level within 12 h after inoculation and showed a second higher level induction at 48 h, which continued throughout the 144 h it was examined. In addition, RPR10a was induced strongly by salicylic and jasmonic acid applications to rice plants. Transcripts of RPR10b also were enhanced by M. grisea, but were not strongly visible until 48 h after inoculation. Tissue prints of M. grisea-infected rice leaves when the RPR10a-specific probe was used indicate that RPR10a is expressed most strongly in a localized fashion in response to the pathogen.
11438692	We have cloned two gibberellin (GA) 3 beta-hydroxylase genes, OsGA3ox1 and OsGA3ox2, from rice by screening a genomic library with a DNA fragment obtained by PCR using degenerate primers. We have used full-scan GC-MS and Kovats retention indices to show function for the two encoded recombinant fusion proteins. Both proteins show 3 beta-hydroxylase activity for the steps GA(20) to GA(1), GA(5) to GA(3), GA(44) to GA(38), and GA(9) to GA(4). In addition, indirect evidence suggests that the OsGA3ox1 protein also has 2,3-desaturase activity, which catalyzes the steps GA(9) to 2,3-dehydro-GA(9) and GA(20) to GA(5) (2,3-dehydro GA(20)), and 2 beta-hydroxylase activity, which catalyzes the steps GA(1) to GA(8) and GA(4) to GA(34). Molecular and linkage analysis maps the OsGA3ox1 gene to the distal end of the short arm of chromosome 5; the OsGA3ox2 gene maps to the distal end of the short arm of chromosome 1 that corresponds to the D18 locus. The association of the OsGA3ox2 gene with the d18 locus is confirmed by sequence and complementation analysis of three d18 alleles. Complementation of the d18-AD allele with the OxGA3ox2 gene results in transgenic plants with a normal phenotype. Although both genes show transient expression, the highest level for OsGA3ox1 is from unopened flower. The highest level for OsGA3ox2 is from elongating leaves.
11440135	A rice bran 57-kDa protein was isolated by affinity chromatography with fibronectin immobilized on agarose. This fibronectin-binding protein designated as RB-57 had an amino-terminal amino acid sequence identical with that of a putative mature form of rice hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein. A distinct feature of the amino acid composition of RB-57 was the high contents of hydroxyproline and proline representing about 45% of the total amino acids. The sugar analysis indicated that arabinose represented 46.8% of the total carbohydrates. RB-57 showed cell adhesion activity for murine Lewis lung carcinoma cells. The result suggests that RB-57 may play a role in plant cell adhesion, although cell adhesion-promoting activity for plant cells remains to be tested.
11441656	Drought resistance is one of the most important traits in rice abiotic study. The report here analyzed several major root traits affecting drought resistance expression with the double haploid population (DH) from ZYQ8 (indica)/JX17 (japonica) containing 127 lines. After 10 days solution culturing, three rice root traits, Maximum Root Length (MRL), Dry Root Weight (DRW) and Root/Shoot Ratio of Dry Weight (RSR), were revealed existing significant difference among the DH lines. Using the constructed molecular linkage map from this segregating population, the QTL mapping was conducted among these three root parameters. MRL, DRW, and RSR were found being controlled by 2/1/2 QTLs respectively in JX17, 2/0/1 QTLs respectively in ZYQ8. Phenotype variance could be explained by 16.4% and 17.0% for MRL, 16.4% for DRW, 10.4% and 19.9% for RSR in JX17, 19.6% and 13.0% for MRL, 13.2% for RSR in ZYQ8. All these QTLs identified were distributed on rice chromosome 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10. Comparing with the other mapping results, one QTL for each trait (L169-CT106A for MRL, G45-G1314A for DRW, G62-G144 for RSR) was identical with the results reported previously.
11441657	The development of molecular genetic linkage map has accelerated the identification and mapping of genomics regions controlling quantitative trait loci. A recombinant inbred line population derived from Zhenshan 97/Minghui 63 was grown in two years. Mixed linear model approach was used to jointly identify QTLs and QTL x environment interactions for five panicle characteristics. Ten, three, six, eight and seven QTLs were detected for spiketets per panicle, grains per panicle, seed setting, panicle length and panicle setting density, respectively. They collectively explained 29.13%, 19.2%, 29.46%, 26.39% and 35.76% of phenotypic variations for these traits, respectively. For the five traits, QTLs with increasing effects and decreasing effects could be simultaneously identified in high value parent and low value parent. QTLs for correlative traits clustering located in the similar regions. One QTL for panicle length, two QTLs for spikelets per panicle and three QTLs for seed setting performed significant interactions with environment. The contributions from interactions were slightly larger than that from the QTLs involved in the interactions. No QTL x environment interaction was detected for traits with high heritabilities such as grains per panicle and panicle setting density.
11441658	Utilization of heterosis between rice subspecies has fascinated rice breeders for several decades. One of the main obstacles is the hybrid sterility in the F1 populations of subspecies crosses in rice. Wide compatibility varieties are considered to an important way to overcome the problem. But the genetics of the wide compatibility is controversial. This paper dealt with the problem through three kinds of triple crosses in which a wide compatibility variety, Ketan Nangka, was involved. Pollen fertility, spikelet fertility and the correlationship between the two fertilities were analyzed in the three kinds of triple crosses. The results suggested that male and female sterilities existed in indica-japonica hybrids at the same time, while the contribution of male sterility to spikelet fertility varied from cross to cross; The characteristic of wide compatibility in different triple crosses was coordinated with the hybrid sterility between the indica and japonica test varieties used; Ketan Nangka possessed the wide compatibility genes on the loci in which the male and female sterilities between the test varieties were involved; The genetics of wide compatibility gene S-5 fitted to one locus sporo-gametophytic interaction model.
11441659	In the F2 and recombinant inbred populations of Zhenshan 97B/Milyang 46, RFLP linkage maps were constructed to detect QTL for yield and its component traits. Results indicated that QTL having substantial additive effects were generally detected in both F2 and recombinant inbred populations. In addition, the trait performances were measured either based on a single plant or on replicated trials in the recombinant inbred population hardly affected the detection of QTL of higher effects.
11442061	A GFP excision assay was developed to monitor the excision of Ac introduced into rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The presence of a strong double enhancer element of the CaMV 35S promoter adjacent to the Ac promoter induced very early excision, directly after transformation into the plant cell, exemplified by the absence of Ac in the T-DNA loci. Excision fingerprint analysis and characterization of transposition events from related regenerants revealed an inverse correlation between the number of excision events and transposed Ac copies, with single early excisions after transformation generating Ac amplification. New transpositions were generated at a frequency of 15-50% in different lines, yielding genotypes bearing multiple insertions, many of which were inherited in the progeny. The sequence of DNA flanking Ac in three representative lines provided a database of insertion tagged sites suitable for the identification of mutants of sequenced genes that can be examined for phenotypes in a reverse genetics strategy to elucidate gene function. Remarkably, two-thirds of Ac tagged sites showing homology to sequences in public databases were in predicted genes. A clear preference of transposon insertions in genes that are either predicted by protein coding capacity or by similarity to ESTs suggests that the efficiency of recovering knockout mutants of genes could be about three times higher than random. Linked Ac transposition, suitable for targeted tagging, was documented by segregation analysis of a crippled Ac element and by recovery of a set of six insertions in a contiguous sequence of 70 kb from chromosome 6 of rice.
11442221	Amino acid profiles, protein digestibility, corrected amino acid scores (PDCAAS), chemical scores, essential amino acid indexes, and calculated biological values of controlcowpea flour (CCF), germinated cowpea flour (GCF) prepared from cowpeas germinated at 25 degrees C for either 24 h or 48 h and weaning foods prepared from cowpea flours were determined. Locally available rice, cowpea flour, banana-pumpkin slurry, and skim milk powder and sucrose in the ratio 35:35:15:15:5 were used to formulate weaning food containing not less than 15% protein. The ingredients were cooked into a slurry and oven-dried to produce flakes. The nutritional and sensory qualities of the weaning products were evaluated. Germination had little effect on the amino acid profile of cowpeas. In vitro protein quality and starch digestibility were improved in germinated cowpea flour. The PDCAAS of 24 h germinated cowpea flour (GCF) weaning food was higher (55.49%) than CCF-weaning food (46.74%). Vitamin A activity in 24 h GCF weaning food was higher than in CCF-weaning food. In vitro starch digestibilities of 24 h GCF and 48 h GCF-weaning foods were higher than that of CCF weaning food. The 24 h GCF-weaning food which had a higher overall acceptability score by sensory panelist than 48 h GCF and CCF-weaning food is recommended for household consumption.
11442450	This study was designed to evaluate the effects of an ordinary mixed meal on endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Ten young healthy volunteers were given a mixed meal (minced meat sauce with rice, 900 kcal, 34% of the energy content was fat). In the fasting state, at 60 and 120 min after the start of the meal, endothelium-dependent vasodilation and endothelium-independent vasodilation were evaluated by local infusion of metacholine (4 microg min (-1)) and sodium nitroprusside (10 microg min (-1)) in the brachial artery. Blood flow in the forearm was measured using venous occlusion plethysmography. Endothelium-dependent vasodilation decreased from 15.4 +/- 3.3 (mean +/- SD) at fasting to 13.7 +/- 3.5 mL min (-1) (100 mL tissue)-1 (P < 0.01) 60 min after feeding, but had returned to the fasting level at 120 min. At 60 min, but not in the fasting state, the serum level of free fatty acids was inversely related to endothelium-dependent vasodilation (r=-0.74, P < 0.05), although no significant net changes in FFA levels were seen. Endothelium-independent vasodilation was not affected by the mixed meal. No similar attenuations in endothelium-dependent vasodilation were seen during control meals. In conclusion, an ordinary mixed meal transiently attenuated endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Free fatty acids may be involved in this effect on endothelial function.
11443913	The success in complete sequencing of "small" genomes and development of new technologies which sharply accelerate processes of cloning and sequencing made real an intensive development of plant genomics and complete sequencing of DNA of some species. It is assumed that the success in plant genomics will result in revolutionary changes in biotechnology and plant breeding. However, the enormous size of genomes (tens of billions bp), their extraordinary enrichment in repetitive sequences, and allopolyploidy (the presence in a nucleus of several related but not identical genomes) force us to think that only few "basic" will undergo complete sequencing, whereas the genome investigations in other species will follow principles of comparative genomics. By the present time, complete sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome (125 Mbp) is completed and that of the rice genome (about 430 Mbp) is close to its end. Studying other plant genomes, including those economically valuable, already began on the basis of these investigations. Peculiarities of plant genomes make extraordinarily important the knowledge on plant chromosomes which, in its turn, requires expansion of investigations in this direction and development of new chromosome technologies, including the DNA-sparing methods of high-resolution banding.
11444020	Scirpophaga incertulas, commonly referred to as yellow stem borer, is a predominant pest of rice causing serious losses in its yield. Genetic variation among populations of Scirpophaga incertulas collected from 28 hotspot locations in India was examined using the randomly amplified polymorphic DNA-polymerase chain reaction (RAPD-PCR). In all, 32 primers were used and 354 amplification products were observed. No RAPD-PCR bands diagnostic to the pest population from any specific region were identified. Cluster analysis using UPGMA showed that, with the exception of the pest population from Pattambi, all the populations cluster as one group with GD values in the range of 6-22%, suggesting that gene flow between populations is independent of geographic distance and appears to be unrestricted. The relatively high GD value of 48% exhibited by the pest population from Pattambi was the only exception.
11444033	The most common enteric viruses responsible for diarrhoea are rotavirus, enteric adenoviruses, caliciviruses including the Norwalk agent and astrovirus. These infections are usually mild to moderate in severity, self-limiting and of short duration and thus, specific antiviral therapy is not recommended. The standard management of these infections is restoration of fluid and electrolyte balance and then maintenance of hydration until the infection resolves. WHO oral rehydration therapy (ORT) was introduced about 30 years ago and has saved the lives of many infants and young children. During the last 10 years it has become evident that the efficacy of ORT can be increased by reducing the osmolality of the WHO oral rehydration solution (ORS) to produce a relatively hypotonic solution. Hypotonic ORS appears to be safe and effective in all forms of acute diarrhoea in childhood. Complex substrate ORS, which is also usually hypotonic, has been shown to have increased efficacy in cholera but not in other bacterial or viral diarrhoeas. Nevertheless, the scientific rationale for using rice or resistant starch as substrate in ORS is of physiological interest. Other treatments such as hyperimmune bovine colostrum, probiotics and antiviral agents are largely experimental and have not been introduced into routine clinical practice. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection of the gastrointestinal tract occurs mainly in the immunocompromised although it has been reported in immunocompetent individuals. CMV infects both the oesophagus and colon to produce oesophagitis, often with discrete ulcers, and colitis, respectively. Both conditions can be treated with ganciclovir or foscarnet. Failure to respond to monotherapy is an indication to use both agents concurrently.
11444598	By applying different electric field strengths to the orifice-skimmer region of an electrospray ionization mass spectrometer, the rate of dissociation can be varied based on the amount of internal energy acquired by an ion through collisions with the curtain gas molecules. Both the Arrhenius equation and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (RRK) theory can be used to predict the rate of dissociation of internally excited molecules. A previously determined model for collision-induced dissociation is tested by comparison of predicted and experimentally observed orifice-skimmer potential differences for dissociation of ions. The rate of collision-induced dissociation of bradykinin ions is determined by monitoring the fragments produced in a mass spectrometer. The semi-quantitative model is found to yield effective predictions when accurate Arrhenius and RRK parameters are utilized.
11444694	To provide improved access to the wealth of resources and genomic information that is presently being developed for rice a set of 88 rice expressed sequence tags (ESTs) previously mapped on rice chromosome I in the cross 'Nipponbare' x 'Kasalath' was used for comparative mapping in a cross of the barley cultivars 'Igri' and 'Franka'. As expected. most (89%) of the clones gave distinct banding patterns in barley of which about one-third was polymorphic between 'Igri' and 'Franka'. These polymorphisms were mapped, and most of these (56%) confirmed that rice chromosome 1 and barley chromosome 3H are syntenous. All single-copy markers identified conserved collinear positions, while markers with multiple copies did so in a few cases only. The markers that were not fitting in the collinear order were distributed randomly across the barley genome. The comparative maps of barley chromosome 3H and rice chromosome 1 comprise in total 26 common markers covering more than 95% of the genetic length of both chromosomes. A 30-fold reduction of recombination is seen around the barley centromere, and synteny may be interrupted in this region. However, the good overall synteny on a mesoscale (1-10 cM) justifies the use of rice as a platform for map-based cloning in barley.
11444696	Regions of amino acid conservation in the NBS domain of NBS-LRR resistance proteins facilitated the PCR isolation of eight resistance gene analog (RGA) sequences from genomic DNA of rice, barley, and Aegilops tauschii. These clones and other RGAs previously isolated from maize, rice, and wheat were assigned to 13 classes by DNA-sequence comparison and by their patterns of hybridisation to restricted barley DNA. Using a doubled-haploid mapping population, probes from 12 RGA classes were used to map 17 loci in the barley genome. Many of these probes have been used for mapping in wheat, and the collective data indicate that the positions of orthologous RGAs are conserved between barley and wheat. RGA loci were identified in the vicinity of barley leaf rust resistance loci Rph4, Rph7, and Rph10. Recombinants were identified between RGA loci and Rph7 and Rph10, while a cluster of RGA sequences detected by probe 5.2 cosegregated with Rph4 in 55 F2 lines.
11444697	The citrus tristeza virus resistance gene (Ctv) is a single dominant gene in Poncirus trifoliata, a sexually compatible relative of citrus. To clone this gene, a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library has been constructed from an individual plant that was homozygous for Ctv. This library contains 45,696 clones with an average insert size of 80 kb, corresponding to 9.6 genome equivalents. Screening of the BAC library with five chloroplast DNA probes indicated that 0.58% of the BAC clones contained chloroplast-derived inserts. The chromosome walk across the Ctv locus was initiated using three closely linked genetic markers: C19, AD8, and Z16. The walk has been completed and a contig of ca. 1.2 Mb was constructed. Based on new data, the genetic map in the Ctv region was revised, with Ctv being located between AD8-Z16 and C19 at distances of 1.2 and 0.6 cM, respectively. Utilizing DNA fragments isolated from the contig as RFLP markers, the Ctv locus was further mapped to a region of ca. 300 kb. This contig contains several putative disease-resistance genes similar to the rice Xa21 gene, the tomato Cf-2 gene, and the Arabidopsis thaliana RPS2 gene. This library will therefore allow cloning of Ctv and other putative disease-resistance genes.
11444698	Mago Nashi, a protein initially shown to be essential in the development of the Drosophila oocyte, is highly conserved among species and shows no homology to any other known cellular proteins. Here we report the nucleotide sequence of a cDNA and a partial gene that encode rice Mago Nashi protein homologs. In addition, we present the tissue-specific expression pattern of mago nashi at the level of RNA and protein. The rice Mago Nashi protein shares at least 73% amino acid identity with all known animal homologs. Genomic DNA gel blot analysis indicates that two copies of the mago nashi gene exist in the rice genome, one of which has identical intron positions to those found in an Arabidopsis homolog. mago nashi is expressed in root, leaf and developing seed tissue as determined by RNA and protein gel blot analysis. Evidence from Drosophila, Caenorhabditis elegans and human studies of Mago Nashi suggests that a major function of this protein is its involvement in RNA localization. The highly conserved amino acid sequence of all Mago Nashi protein homologs across kingdoms suggests that the plant version of this protein may similarly be involved in RNA localization.
11444706	The cloning and propagation of large DNA fragments as bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) has become a valuable technique in genome research. BAC clones are highly stable in the host, Escherichia coli, a major advantage over yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs) in which recombination-induced instability is a major drawback. Here we report that BAC clones containing tandemly repeated DNA elements are not stable and can undergo drastic deletions during routine library maintenance and DNA preparation. Instability was observed in three BAC clones from sorghum, rice, and potato, each containing distinct tandem repeats. As many as 46% and 74% of the single colonies derived from a rice BAC clone containing 5S ribosomal RNA genes had insert deletions after 24 and 120 h of growth, respectively. We also demonstrated that BAC insert rearrangement can occur in the early stage of library construction and duplication. Thus, a minimum growth approach may not avoid the instability problem of such clones. The impact of BAC instability on genome research is discussed.
11444708	A sample of American wild rice and other accessions of the genus Oryza were studied at polymorphic regions of nuclear, mitochondrial, and chloroplastic genomes. First, flow cytometry, genome-specific RAPD markers, and chromosome counting were utilized to verify the original ploidy and classification of 230 accessions studied. Based on these methods, 8% of the accessions were considered to be misclassified either taxonomically or as a result of contamination. Second, a fine resolution analysis was conducted at genomic regions sampled at random by RAPD markers and at specific sites of the chloroplast and mitochondrial DNA by cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) analysis. Phylogenetic trees resulting from phenetic and cladistic analyses of RAPD, cpDNA, and mtDNA polymorphisms were obtained. The results indicated that the American diploid species O. glumaepatula should be considered an individual species, distinct from O. rufipogon, and confirmed that the American tetraploid species (O. alta, O. grandiglumis, and O. latifolia) belong to the O. officinalis complex. The data indicate that these species should still be treated as a group rather than as three distinct species and that their closest relative is a CC-genome species. It was estimated that the diploid and tetraploid American species diverged from O. sativa - O. nivara (AA genome) and CC- and BBCC-genome species, respectively, 20 million years ago.
11445894	The measurement of the carbon isotope composition of starch and cellulose still relies on chemical isolation of these water-insoluble plant constituents and subsequent elemental analysis by isotope ratio mass spectrometry (EA/IRMS) of the purified fractions, while delta(13)C values of low-molecular-weight organic compounds are now routinely measured by gas chromatography/combustion/isotope ratio mass spectrometry (GC/C/IRMS). Here we report a simple and reliable method for processing milligram quantities of dried plant material for the analysis of the carbon isotope composition of lipids, soluble sugars, starch and cellulose from the same sample. We evaluated three different starch preparation methods, namely (1) enzymatic hydrolysis by alpha-amylase, (2) solubilization by dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) followed by precipitation with ethanol, and (3) partial hydrolysis by HCl followed by precipitation of the resulting dextrins by ethanol. Starch recovery for three commercially available native starches (from potato, rice and wheat) varied from 48 to 81% for the techniques based on precipitation, whereas the enzymatic technique exhibited yields between 99 and 105%. In addition, the DMSO and HCl techniques introduced a significant (13)C fractionation of up to 1.9 per thousand, while the carbon isotope composition of native starches analyzed after enzymatic digestion did not show any significant difference from that of untreated samples. The enzymatic starch preparation method was then incorporated into a protocol for determination of delta(13)C signatures of lipids, soluble carbohydrates, starch and crude cellulose. The procedure is based on methanol/chloroform/water extraction of dried and ground leaf material. After recovery of the chloroform phase (lipid fraction), the methanol/water phase was deionized by ion exchange (soluble carbohydrate fraction) and the pellet treated with heat-stable alpha-amylase (starch fraction). The remaining insoluble material was subjected to solvolysis by diglyme (cellulose fraction). The method was shown to be applicable to foliar tissues of a variety of different plant species (spruce, erect brome, maize and soybean).
11446635	The 5-aza-6-deoxy analogue of castanospermine (+/-)-5a and its 1-epimer (+/-)-5b was synthesized. The synthesis started from the known compound 5-benzyloxy-7-hydroxyhepta-1,3-diene, which was protected and subjected to Diels-Alder reaction with 4-phenyl-1,2,4-triazoline-3,5-dione to give two epimeric adducts. One of these was transformed through epoxidation, acetolysis, a series of side-chain transformations that converted it into a terminally protected aldehyde, deprotection, and hydrogenolysis/reductive amination into 5a. By a similar set of reactions the other adduct epimer was converted into 5b. The castanospermine analogue 5a was a weaker inhibitor of almond beta-glucosidase and rice alpha-glucosidase than castanospermine (2) or 1-azafagomine (4), but was considerably more potent than its epimer 5b. This suggests that these enzymes have a strong preference for binding substrates or azasugars with the 6-OH in an axial conformation.
11448732	Two rice cDNAs, EL5 and RRF1, were isolated and characterized. EL5 was responsive to N-acetylchitooligosaccharide, a biotic elicitor active in suspension-cultured rice cells. The structural specificity of the elicitor required for the expression of EL5 was consistent with other defense reactions observed in the experimental system, indicating that the elicitor signal to EL5 is transmitted through a single class of receptor-mediated recognition events. However, the intracellular signaling pathway to EL5 was distinct from those to other elicitor-responsive genes. Sequence analysis and alignment showed that a genomic sequence stored in rice genome databases in addition to EL5 and RRF1 belongs to the ATL family of RING-H2 finger motif proteins first isolated from Arabidopsis.
11448751	Rice, with its small genome size and well-characterized molecular information, is an ideal model plant for cereal genomics research. Sequence of the rice (Oryza sativa) genome will be determined by the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP) in the near future. Therefore, a large population of mutant plants should be required for adequately assigning function to the abundant sequence information. Here we summarize strategies as well as the progress that has been made in producing gene tags that may be invaluable for understanding the functional genomics of rice.
11448759	In rice (Oryza sativa var. Jackson) at least three copies of hemoglobin (hb) gene exist. Rice hb1 and hb2 genes are differentially expressed in roots and leaves from mature plants. We used polyclonal antibodies raised to recombinant rice Hb1 and Western blotting to analyze the synthesis of Hbs in rice plants growing under normal or stress conditions. Results showed that rice Hbs are synthesized in coleoptiles, seminal roots and embryos from seeds germinated for 6 days, and also in leaves and roots from plants 2-14 weeks after germination. Analysis of Hb synthesis in stressed rice showed that: (i) level of Hbs was higher in etiolated than control plants, (ii) level of Hbs increased in roots from flooded rice, and (iii) level of Hbs did not change under oxidative (H(2)O(2)), nitrosative (SNP) and hormonal (2,4-D) stresses. These results suggest that the effect of light withdrawal in etiolated leaves and O(2)-limiting conditions in flooded roots, but not oxidative, nitrosative and hormonal stresses, modulate the synthesis of rice Hbs.
11450457	The infection of tobacco, nightshade, rice plants, and their tissue cultures with the cyanobacteria-bacteria symbiotic associations (CBSA) isolated from natural syncyanoses (the ferns Azolla pinnata and Azolla sp. and the cycad Encephalartos ferox) was studied. The inoculation of the intact plants or their cuttings with CBSA led to the colonization of the plant roots, stems, and leaves by cyanobacteria and their bacterial symbionts (referred to as satellite bacteria, SB). The sites of the long-term contact of plant organs with cyanobacteria were characterized by the formation of copious slime. On the roots of infected plants, one could observe the callus growth of cortical parenchyma cells and the formation of pseudonodules, in which SB cells gradually accumulated. In mixed cultures of plant callus tissues and the CBSA isolated from the ferns A. pinnata and Azolla sp., the callus tissue specifically influenced the growth of the CBSA components, causing (depending on the plant species and strain) either their balanced growth, or their cyclic growth, or the predominant growth of one of the CBSA components (either cyanobacteria or satellite bacteria). This phenomenon is proposed to be used for the dissociation of stable multicomponent natural symbiotic complexes and the selection of their particular components.
11450951	Evidence is presented that a tenuivirus recovered from the grass Urochloa plantaginea is probably a novel tenuivirus species, to be called Urochloa hoja blanca virus (UHBV). It is related to both Echinochloa hoja blanca virus (EHBV) and Rice hoja blanca virus (RHBV), and these three form a group distinct from Maize stripe virus (MStV) and Rice stripe virus (RStV). Phylogenetic analysis of the sequence data for RNA-3 and RNA-4 of these viruses supports the hypothesis that EHBV and UHBV may have evolved from an ancestral form of RHBV, precipitated by the introduction of Echinochloa colona and Urochloa plantaginea to America.
11451522	Specific PCR assays were used to amplify the 16S rRNA genes of the Desulfobacteriaceae and the Desulfovibrionaceae from extracted environmental DNA from rice roots. 16S rDNA-based community patterns of the Desulfobacteriaceae were generated via terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis from rice roots and compared with bulk soil. The molecular fingerprints showed no significant difference between rice roots and bulk soil, but changes during the vegetation period. 16S rDNA clone libraries and sequencing showed that the predominant terminal restriction fragments represented distinct phylogenetic groups. The 16S rDNA clone sequences of the Desulfobacteriaceae fell in the phylogenetic radiation of Desulfonema and Desulfosarcina or grouped within the Desulforhabdus-Syntrophobacter assemblage. Three of the latter sequences were closely affiliated with the MPN isolate EZ-2C2 from rice roots. All Desulfovibrionaceae 16S rDNA clone sequences, with one exception, were affiliated with the MPN isolate F1-7b from rice roots. The clustering of the clone sequences and the close phylogenetic affiliation with isolates from MPN enrichments from the same habitat in two cases indicated that these sequence clusters may represent predominant Gram-negative sulfate reducers on rice roots. Quantification of the bacterial abundances was accomplished by rRNA dot blot hybridization. In total the Gram-negative sulfate reducers accounted for approximately 2-3% of the total rRNA content. The relative rRNA abundance of the Desulfobacteriaceae was, at 1.4%, higher than that of the Desulfovibrionaceae (0.5%).
11452511	Follow-up survey of the blood concentration of PCDDs, PCDFs and non-ortho-chlorine substituted PCBs in Yusho patients is very important for their health control. We determined the blood concentration of these dioxin isomers in 119 blood samples collected in 1998 and 1999 using by a high-resolution gas chromatograph/high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRGC/HRMS). Thirty years had passed since the Yusho occurrence, and the total blood concentrations of PCDFs in the blood of Yusho patients were still as high as ever, except the patients with the PCB pattern C. Among the different groups of PCB patterns, the concentration of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF and 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF showed significant differences, excluding the group BC because of the small number of cases. The findings indicate that these isomers are not decomposed in human body since they had highly contaminated the causal rice oil at the onset. In typical Yusho patients (Group A of PCB pattern), the mean TEQ concentrations of PCDDs, PCDFs and non-ortho-chlorine substituted PCBs in the blood collected in 1998 were 21, 206, and 14 pg-TEQ/g lipid, respectively, and in 1999, 30, 308 and 14 pg-TEQ/g lipid, respectively. The toxic contribution rate of PCDFs TEQ was still at high levels for total TEQ in both years. The patients of the group C, however, the mean blood levels of the dioxins TEQ in 1998 and 1999 did not differ from those of the normal controls determined in 1996 although some patients in this group showed a high toxic contribution rate of PCDFs TEQ for total TEQ. We will try the PCB isomer specific analysis of the Yusho patients blood, and will investigate the difference from normal controls blood.
11453256	The wheat mitochondrial genome contains only partial coding sequences for the L2 and S19 ribosomal proteins, unlike in rice or liverwort mitochondria, where these genes are functional and have a bacterial-type linkage. A single-copy stretch corresponding to the extreme 3' terminus of the wheat rpl2 gene is co-transcribed with the trans-splicing nad1 exon 4; and, at another unique location, the rps19 segment lacking the 5' coding region is co-transcribed with the downstream nad4L gene. In both cases, the 5' termini of these transcripts map to promoter consensus motifs acquired through genomic reorganization, enabling continued expression of essential downstream genes. In both wheat and rice, the rpl2 and rps19 genomic regions differ in their RNA profiles between germinating embryos and seedlings. The absence of intact rpl2 and rps19 genes in wheat mitochondria is consistent with their inactivation through DNA rearrangement/deletion after the successful transfer of functional copies to the nucleus.
11453547	Immature embryos of rice varieties "Xiushuill" and "Chunjiang 11" precultured for 4d were infected and transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101/pExT7 (containing the spider insecticidal gene). The resistant calli were transferred onto the differentiation medium and plants were regenerated. The transformation frequency reached 56% approximately 72% measured as numbers of Geneticin (G418)-resistant calli produced and 36% approximately 60% measured as numbers of transgenic plants regenerated, respectively. PCR and Southern blot analysis of transgenic plants confirmed that the T-DNA had been integrated into the rice genome. Insect bioassays using T1 transgenic plants indicated that the mortality of the leaffolder (Cnaphalocrasis medinalis) after 7d of leaf feeding reached 38% approximately 61% and the corrected mortality of the striped stem borer (Chilo suppressalis) after 7d of leaf feeding reached 16% approximately 75%. The insect bioassay results demonstrated that the transgenic plants expressing the spider insecticidal protein conferred enhanced resistance to these pests.
11455651	A series of novel types of 7-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl)oxy- and -thio-3-methyl-1 (3H)-isobenzofuranones were discovered at Dr R Maag AG. From the thio-isobenzofuranyl series, CGA 279 233--BSI-proposed common name pyriftalid--was chosen for further development as a grass herbicide for use in rice. General synthetic approaches to these new phthalic acid-derived compounds are given, with emphasis on the synthesis of pyriftalid and its physico-chemical behaviour.
11455653	Translocation of the antiblast compound, carpropamid, was investigated in rice using [14C]carpropamid. When applied to the seed, carpropamid was not only readily absorbed but was translocated to different parts of the seedlings emerging from treated seeds. A substantial portion of fungicide appeared to be exuded onto the leaf surface. In 21-day-old plants grown from [14C]carpropamid-treated seeds, 27.2% of the radioactivity isolated from leaves was present on the surface of lamina. This exuded fraction is probably responsible for its action as a fungal anti-penetrant compound. Following 30-min root dipping of 14-day-old seedlings, carpropamid was rapidly absorbed and translocated throughout the seedling. Its intra-laminar distribution was uniform as determined by autoradiography. Only a small fraction (< 2%) of fungicide applied to the foliage was translocated beyond the site of application within the treated leaf. Translocation was primarily apoplastic. Approximately 54% of the radioactivity recovered from leaves was in the form of carpropamid. At least seven radiolabelled metabolic products were observed by TLC. Only 8.3% of radioactivity applied through the seeds could be recovered from 21-day-old seedlings.
11455659	To investigate the selectivity and safening action of the sulfonylurea herbicide pyrazosulfuron-ethyl (PSE), pyrazosulfuron-ethyl O-demethylase (PSEOD) activity involving oxidative metabolism by cytochrome P-450 was studied in rice (Oryza sativa L cv Nipponbare) and Cyperus serotinus Rottb. Cytochrome P-450-dependent activity was demonstrated by the use of the inducers 1,8-naphthalic anhydride and ethanol, the herbicides PSE, bensulfuron-methyl, dimepiperate and dymron, or the inhibitor piperonyl butoxide (PBO). Growth inhibition in C serotinus seedlings was more severe than that in rice seedlings. O-Dealkylation activities of PSE were induced differently in rice and in C serotinus, with distinctly higher activity in rice seedlings. The induced PSEOD activities were slightly inhibited by PBO in rice seedlings, whereas they were strongly inhibited in C serotinus seedlings. Dimepiperate and dymron were effective safeners of rice against PSE treatment. Treatments with herbicide alone resulted in less induction of PSEOD activity compared with combined treatments of the herbicide and safener. PSEOD activity in rice seedlings induced with herbicide alone was strongly inhibited by PBO, whereas it was weakly inhibited in rice seedlings induced with combinations of PSE and two safeners. These results suggest that O-demethylation by cytochrome P-450 enzymes may be involved in the metabolism of PSE and may contribute to its selectivity and safening action. Furthermore, these results suggest the existence of a multiple form of cytochrome P-450 in plants.
11455815	Imazosulfuron, 1-(2-chloroimidazo[1,2-alpha]pyridin-3-ylsulfonyl)-3- (4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl)urea, is a new post-emergence sulfonylurea herbicide applied once per growing season, highly active at low application levels, used to control most annual and perennial broad-leaf weeds and sedges in paddy rice (75-95 g AI ha-1) and turf (500-1000 g AI ha-1), and characterised by low mammalian toxicity. The degradation of imazosulfuron in a sandy loam soil (10-15 cm depth) has been investigated under aerobic and anaerobic laboratory conditions to evaluate its likely environmental fate. Test soils were treated with imazosulfuron in acetonitrile to give a final concentration of 0.2 mg kg-1 (100 g ha-1). The treated soils were extracted with methylene chloride + acetonitrile + 1 M ammonium hydroxide (4 + 15 + 1 by volume) and analysed by HPLC. Recoveries from spiked soils ranged from 80% to 95% (RSD 0.5-2.5%; n = 3) for imazosulfuron and its metabolites 2-chloroimidazo[1,2-alpha]pyridin-3-sulfonamide (IPSN), 1-(2-chloroimidazo[1,2-alpha]pyridin-3-ylsulfonyl)-3-(4-hydroxy-6- methoxypyrimidin-2-yl)urea (HMS) and 2-amino-4,6-dimethoxypyrimidine (ADPM). The limits of quantitation ranged from 0.001 mg kg-1 to 0.005 mg kg-1. Chemical cleavage of the sulfonylurea bond to give ADPM and IPSN was the main degradation pathway in aerobic conditions, whereas a remarkable production of HMS under anaerobic conditions suggested that degradation was due to micro-organisms which had the ability to demethylate imazosulfuron. In aerobic and anaerobic conditions, imazosulfuron disappeared from the soil with a half-life of approximately 70 (90% CL 62-75; r2 = 0.98) and 4 (90% CL 3.2-4.2; r2 = 0.97) days, respectively.
11456101	A new series of silicon-containing derivatives of 2-aryl-3-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)propanenitriles were synthesized and evaluated for fungicidal activities against rice sheath blight and powdery mildew on cucumber. These derivatives exhibited higher efficacy than reference fungicides.
11456114	A base-nonspecific and acid ribonuclease (RNase Os) belonging to the RNase T2 family was purified from rice bran to a homogeneous state by SDS-PAGE. The primary structure of RNase Os was determined by protein chemistry and molecular cloning. The RNase Os was a simple protein and consisted of 205 amino acid residues. Its molecular weight was 22578 and its amino acid sequence showed that it was most similar to barley RNase among the known RNase T2 family enzymes having 157 amino acid residues identical with barley RNase. However, its N-terminus was blocked by a gamma-pyroglutamyl residue. The optimal pH of RNase Os was around 5.5. The base preference at the B1 and B2 site of RNase Os was estimated from the rates of hydrolysis of 16 dinucleoside phosphates, to be guanine as the case of RNase LE from tomato. RNase Os was successfully expressed from yeast cells using the E. coli yeast expression vector pYE-RNAP.
11456294	This study deals with the bioconversion of xylose into xylitol by Candida guilliermondii FTI 20037 using eucalyptus hemicellulosic hydrolysate obtained by acid hydrolysis. The influence of various parameters (ammonium sulfate, rice bran, pH, and xylose concentration) on the production of xylitol was evaluated. The experiments were based on multivariate statistical concepts, with the application of factorial design techniques to identify the most important variables in the process. The levels of these variables were quantified by the response surface methodology, which permitted the establishment of a significant mathematical model with a coefficient determination of R2 = 0.92. The best results (xylitol = 10.0 g/L, yield factor = 0.2 g/g, and productivity = 0.1 g/[L x h]) were attained with hydrolysate containing ammonium sulfate (1.1 g/L), rice bran (5.0 g/L), and xylose (initial concentration of 60.0 g/L), after 72 h of fermentation. The pH of fermentation was adjusted to 8.0 and the inoculum level utilized was 3 g/L.
11457911	Ethanolic fermentation, the predominant catabolic pathway in anoxia-tolerant rice coleoptiles, was manipulated in excised and 'aged' tissues via glucose feeding. Coleoptiles with exogenous glucose survived 60 h of anoxia, as evidenced by vigorous rates of K+ and phosphate net uptake and growth of roots and shoots when re-aerated. In contrast, coleoptiles without exogenous glucose showed net losses of K+ and phosphates starting 12 h after anoxia was imposed and these did not recover fully when re-aerated after 60 h of anoxia. Ethanol production (micromol x g(-1) FW x h(-1)) declined from about 7.5 during the first 12 h of anoxia to 5 or 2.2 after 48-60 h, in coleoptiles with or without exogenous glucose, respectively. Carbohydrate concentrations changed only slightly in anoxic coleoptiles with exogenous glucose due to net glucose uptake at 2.6 micromol x g(-1) FW x h(-1). Ethanolic fermentation, and therefore ATP production, may have been down-regulated after an initial period of acclimation to anoxia in coleoptiles with exogenous glucose. Maintenance requirements for energy were assessed to be 3.4-7.6-fold lower in these anoxic coleoptiles than published estimates for non-growing aerated leaf tissues. A modest part of the required economy in energy consumption would have been derived from diminished ion transport; anoxia reduced K+ and phosphate net uptake by 70-90% in these coleoptiles. K+ efflux was 10-fold lower in anoxic than in aerated coleoptiles with exogenous glucose. Using the unidirectional efflux equation, the membrane permeability to K+ was estimated to be 17-fold lower in anoxic than in aerated coleoptiles, presumably due to predominantly closed K+ channels.
11457918	With a conventional method of RNA extraction using an acid guanidinium thiocyanate-water-saturated phenol-chloroform mixture, extraction efficiency of extractable RNA to total RNA (extractable RNA+ residual RNA) in rice leaves at various ages was 54-69%. With a new method, an improvement of the above, using benzyl chloride instead of water-saturated phenol together with further maceration with a small amount of quartz sand, the efficiency was increased to 81-95%. When RNA fractions obtained with the improved method were subjected to agarose gel electrophoresis, intact bands of 25 S and 17 S rRNAs were detected. With a DNA probe for rice rbcS, only a single band was observed on the blotted membrane. These results indicate that the improved extraction method of RNA with benzyl chloride is useful for quantitative and qualitative analysis of RNA in plant tissues such as stiff leaves of rice.
11459185	The majority of plant disease-resistance genes (R-genes) isolated so far encode a predicted nucleotide-binding site (NBS) domain. NBS domains related to R-genes show a highly conserved backbone of amino acid motifs, which makes it possible to isolate resistance gene analogues (RGAs) by PCR with degenerate primers. Multiple combinations of primers with low degeneracy, designed from two conserved motifs in the NBS regions of R-genes of various plants, were used on genomic DNA from coffee trees, an important perennial tropical crop. Nine distinct classes of RGAs of the NBS-like type, representing a highly diverse sample, were isolated from Coffea arabica and C. canephora species. The analysis of one coffee RGA family suggested point mutations as the primary source of diversity. With one exception, coffee RGA families appeared to be closely related in sequence to at least one cloned R-gene. In addition, deduced amino acid sequences of coffee RGAs were identified that showed strong sequence similarity to almost all known non-TIR (Toll/Interleukin 1 Receptor)-type R-genes. The high degree of similarity between particular coffee RGAs and R-genes isolated from other angiosperm species, such as Arabidopsis, tomato and rice, indicates an ancestral relationship and the existence of common ancestors. The data obtained from coffee species suggests that the evolution of NBS-encoding sequences involves the gradual accumulation of mutations and slow rates of divergence within distinct R-gene families, rather than being a rapid process. Functional inferences drawn from the suggested pattern of evolution of NBS-type R-genes is also discussed.
11459218	Three genes encoding 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGR, EC1.1.1.34), which converts HMG-CoA into mevalonate in the early key step of the plant isoprenoid pathway, were isolated by RT-PCR and rice cDNA and genomic library screening. A genomic Southern blot analysis confirmed that HMGR genes are present in three copies in rice. Of the three, the HMGR 2 gene (Hmg2) obtained as a cDNA clone and its genomic clone had 4 exons and 3 introns, and encoded a 576 amino acid peptide containing an open reading frame of 1,728 bp with a calculated Mw. of 61,150. The structure of rice Hmg2 had common features, based on its nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequence homologies, with other plant HMGR genes published to date. Rice Hmg2 transcripts were constitutively detected in all parts of the rice plant, except in lamina and their levels were high particularly in the leaf part of the dark-grown seedlings and mature flowers. Our result showed that mRNA levels of rice Hmg2 were strongly induced in seedlings and influorescence in the early development stage. Rice Hmg2 possibly has a housekeeping role involved in the sterol biosynthesis, among the possible roles of plant HMGR genes that have been suggested in other plants [Weissenborn et al. (1995)].
11459226	The cDNA clone, CanMADS1, was isolated from young flower buds of the hot pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) by screening a cDNA library using the OsMADS1 rice MADS-box gene as a probe. We used a yeast two-hybrid screening method to investigate interaction partners of the protein product of CanMADS1. A MADS-box gene, CanMADS6, was isolated from young flower buds using the region containing the K domain and 15 amino acid residues of the C-terminal region of CanMADS1 as a bait. CanMADS1 and CanMADS6 showed high amino acid sequence similarities to members of the AGL2 subfamily and the SQUA subfamily, respectively. CanMADS1 transcript was expressed in flower buds and fruits, and the transcription signal was the strongest in the stage of the fruit set (2 d after anthesis). CanMADS6 showed the same expression pattern as CanMADS1. CanMADS1 and CanMADS6 were not expressed in leaves. These results suggest that a regulatory role for flower and fruit development of the hot pepper may be accomplished through an interaction of the protein products of the two MADS-box genes, CanMADS1 and CanMADS6.
11460333	A feasibility study was performed to examine the agronomic application of the treated sewage on paddy rice culture through field experiment. The domestic sewage was treated using a constructed wetland system, a subsurface flow type consisting of sand and macrophyte. The effluent of the wetland system was diluted to maintain the total nitrogen concentration below 25 mg/L and was used as irrigation water. Addition of the treated sewage to the irrigation water showed no adverse effect on the paddy rice culture; in fact some enhancement was noticed in both growth and yield. Irrigation with the treated sewage after the concentration was adjusted accompanied by conventional fertilization showed a better result, with the yield exceeding that of the control where clean water was used, thus suggesting that reuse of the treated sewage as supplemental irrigation water could be a feasible and practical alternative. For a full-scale application, however, further study is recommended on the specific guideline for controlling the major water quality components in the treated sewage.
11461340	Diagnostics applied to a rice-pile cellular automaton reveal different mechanisms producing power-law behaviors of statistical attributes of grains which are germane to self organised critical phenomena. The probability distributions for these quantities can be derived from two distinct random walk models that account for correlated clustered behavior through incorporating fluctuations in the number of steps in the walk. The first model describes the distribution for a spatial quantity, the resultant flight length of grains. This has a power-law tail caused by grains moving through a discrete, power-law distributed number of random steps of finite length. Developing this model into a random walk obtains distributions for the resultant flight length with characteristics similar to Lvy distributions. The second random walk model is devised to explain a temporal quantity, the distribution of "trapping" or "residence" times of grains at single locations in the pile. Diagnostics reveal that the trapping time can be constructed as a sum of "subtrapping times," which are described by a Lvy distribution where the number of terms in the sum is a discrete random variable accurately described by a negative binomial distribution. The infinitely divisible, two-parameter, limit distribution for the resultant of such a random walk is discussed, and describes a dual-scale power-law behavior if the number fluctuations are strongly clustered. The form for the distribution of transit times of grains results as a corollary.
11463397	Phosphine fumigation trials were carried out on bag-stacks of paddy rice to study the differences in gas loss rates and concentration-time (Ct) products achieved during the treatment of indoor and outdoor stacks. Stacks (89-132t) were fumigated singly under 250&mgr;m thick polyethylene sheeting, which was sealed with a double layer of sand-snakes to the concrete floor. Phosphine was applied as an aluminium phosphide formulation and the fumigations continued for 7 days. In the first experiment, stacks of paddy rice with moisture contents ranging from 12.2 to 13.7% were held in either indoor or in outdoor storage and subjected to fumigation at the rate of 2, 3 or 4g of phosphine/tonne. The outdoor stacks held relatively low levels of phosphine with Ct products for the indoor stacks of 135, 171 and 294gh/m(3), respectively, whilst the corresponding values for the outdoor stacks were 70, 85 and 166gh/m(3) only. The average gas loss rate was 14.5% per day for the indoor stacks and 29.5% for the outdoor stacks. In the second experiment, old stacks of paddy rice inside a godown, one each with grains at 8.8 and 9.8% moisture content, were fumigated at 3g phosphine/tonne. Release of phosphine was delayed and fumigant sorption was less and therefore higher Ct products of 204 and 216gh/m(3) were achieved. In the stacks built outdoors, the resident infestations of Rhyzopertha dominica, Cryptolestes sp. and Oryzaephilus surinamensis were completely controlled despite lower Ct products. On the other hand, in the stacks of old paddy, R. dominica survived the treatment. Subsequent testing showed that the population had a degree of resistance to phosphine.
11464272	Three mold strains isolated from soil in the Taipei area of Taiwan were compared with a commercial strain of Aspergillus oryzae for their proteolytic activities in an 18% NaCl aqueous solution system. Among these strains, the one subsequently identified and designated as Aspergillus sp. FC-10 produced protease with superior saline tolerance. In aflatoxin tests, this strain did not generate detectable aflatoxin after growing on steamed grain polished rice substrate for 24 days. Two types of extracellular proteases were preliminary fractionated by column chromatography on DEAE Sepharose CL-6B. Proteolytic activity of the nonadsorbed protease (P-I) was reduced to 9.4% in the 18% NaCl solution compared to its original activity determined in the buffer solution. However, the adsorbed protease (P-II) was particularly salt tolerant and stable, with 50% proteolytic activity retained throughout the 6-h stability test in 18% NaCl solution.
11464665	The effect of feeding rice and bean diets in both hepatic and plasmatic activity of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase-(GGT-EC 2.3.2.2) activity was evaluated in growing-rats (Experiment A) and mature rats (Experiment B). During 28 days, the animals were fed with isocaloric-diets composed by tree levels of rice, bean or rice-and-bean protein. Similarly with the aproteic group, a significant increase on both the hepatic and plasmatic GGT activity were showed with the lowest levels of protein, when compared with 25% casein control group. This rise was more effective in growing-rats fed on legume-based diets (as bean or rice-and-bean diets), making evident a differential effect of age and an exacerbated effect of the protein restriction with the lowest sulfur amino acids disposal. These alterations suggest a metabolic adaptation of GGT to both the inadequate protein and sulfur-amino acid levels, thus supporting the hypothesis that the Glutathione levels may be reduced by these legume-based diets.
11465512	Two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) is known as the most effective as well as one of the simplest methods for separating proteins. However, a few hundred plant leaf proteins out of thousands visualized on a 2-DE gel can be identified by chemical analysis due to the presence of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) that limits protein loading. We describe the extraction and fractionation technique with polyethylene glycol (PEG) to analyze rice leaf proteins. Rice proteins were extracted with Mg/NP-40 extraction buffer. The Mg/Nonidet P-40 (NP-40) buffer extract was further fractionated with PEG into three fractions: 10% PEG and 10-20% PEG precipitants and the final supernatant fraction that was precipitated with acetone. Rubisco, the most abundant rice leaf protein, was enriched in the 20% PEG precipitant. This fractionation technique analyzed at least 2,600 well-separated protein spots and exhibited less than 1.2% of noticeable overlapping spots. An immunological approach was used to verify the efficiency whether PEG fractionation technique can detect or enrich signal transduction components such as Galpha, ADP ribosylation factor, small GTP binding protein and 14-3-3. The ADP ribosylation factor (ARF) and Galpha were only detected in the PEG supernatant fraction not in the total protein fraction. The small GTP binding protein (Rab 7) was identified in the 10% PEG fraction and only faintly in the total protein fraction. The 14-3-3 protein was detected in all fractions but was especially prevalent in the 20% PEG fraction.
11466523	MADS-domain-containing transcription factors play diverse roles in plant development. The prototypic members of this gene family are the floral organ identity genes of the model dicotyledonous plant, Arabidopsis thaliana. Sequence relatedness and function ascribe them to AP1/AGL9, AG, AP3 and PI gene groups. The rice MADS-box gene, OsMADS1, is a member of the AP1/ AGL9 sub-group. Tomato and Petunia members of this sub-group specify floral meristem identity and control organ development in three inner whorls. Reported here are phylogenetic analyses that show OsMADS1 to form a distinct clade within the AGL9 gene family. This sub-group currently has only three other monocot genes. We have studied the expression pattern of OsMADS1 and determined the consequences of its ectopic expression in transgenic rice plants. OsMADS1 is not expressed during panicle branching; earliest expression is in spikelet meristems where it is excluded from the outer rudimentary/sterile glumes. During organogenesis, OsMADS1 expression is confined to the lemma and palea, with weak expression in the carpel. Ectopic OsMADS1 expression results in stunted panicles with irregularly positioned branches and spikelets. Additionally, in spikelets, the outer rudimentary glumes are transformed to lemma/palea-like organs. Together, these data suggest a distinct role for OsMADS1 and its monocot relatives in assigning lemma/palea identity.
11469557	1. Laying performance, egg quality, fertility and hatchability, and fat deposition in liver and abdomen were recorded in broiler breeders (29 to 48 weeks of age) fed on diets containing perarl millet (Pennisetum typhoides) (PM), broken rice (BR) or yellow maize (YM) (600 g/kg diet). Constant ratios of metabolisable energy (ME) to other nutrients were maintained in all the diets. Food grade choline chloride (50%) was added to the diets at 3 concentrations (0, 760 and 1,520 mg/kg). Each diet was offered to 3 replicate groups of 15 birds (12 hens and 3 cockerels), maintained in deep litter pens, to provide 1.46 MJ ME/bird/d. 2. Neither the source of energy nor dietary choline content had any influence on hen-d egg production, fertility or hatchability. Food efficiency and egg weight were significantly reduced in BR-fed groups compared to those fed on the other energy sources. 3. The efficiency of energy and protein utilisation increased and liver fat content was decreased significantly by dietary choline supplementation. 4. Haugh unit score, egg shell weight, liver weight and intestinal weight were not influenced by either supplementary choline or the source of energy. However, the yolk colour index was significantly reduced in PM- or BR-fed groups compared to those fed on the maize-based diet. 5. Deposition of abdominal fat was significantly greater in BR-fed birds compared to those fed on the YM-based diet, while liver fat content was significantly greater in the birds fed on the PM-or BR-based diets than those based on YM. Although supplementation of the diet with choline had no influence on abdominal fat deposition, liver fat content was significantly reduced in birds given diet containing 760 mg supplemental choline/kg diet. 6. The present study indicates that PM or BR can be used as principal energy sources in place of YM in broiler breeder diets without affecting egg production, fertility or hatchability. Liver fat content can be reduced by adding choline at 760 mg/kg to diets based on different energy sources.
11469581	Compartmental analysis with 13N was used to determine cytosolic nitrate (NO3-) pools, and their turnover rates, in roots of intact barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Klondike) seedlings. Influx, efflux, flux to the vacuole and assimilation, and flux to the xylem, varied as much as 300-fold over a wide range of external NO3- conditions. By contrast, the kinetic constant kc describing cytosolic NO3- turnover varied by less than 4% from a mean value of 0.0407 min(-1). Accordingly, cytosolic NO3- pools varied linearly with influx. A literature survey showed that kc constancy is observed with both NO3- and ammonium (NH4+) fluxes in many plant species, including H. vulgare, Arabidopsis thaliana, Picea glauca, and Oryza sativa. The regulatory system implied by this phenomenon is fundamentally different from that of potassium (K+) fluxes, in which cytosolic pool size is held constant while kc varies with external K+ concentrations. We further present data showing that barley plants, grown on one steady-state concentration of NH4+, restore kc within minutes of exposure to new, non-steady-state, NH4+ concentrations. We propose the existence of a high-fidelity mechanism governing the timing of cytosolic N turnover, and discuss its implications for attempts to improve plants biotechnologically.
11469667	Rice flour-based batter (RFBB) formulations for chicken drumstick coating were developed as an alternative for traditional wheat flour-based batter (WFBB). Physicochemical properties and storage stability of selected RFBB were evaluated and compared to WFBB. Batter pickup of RFBB formulated in combination with oxidized corn starch and methylcellulose (MC) was not significantly different from that of WFBB. In contrast, batters with only rice and corn flour (60:40% flour weight) exhibited significantly higher pickup. Rice flour batter with 15% oxidized corn starch had the lowest batter pickup. All RFBB exhibited (P < 0.05) lower oil absorption than WFBB. The TBA values of RFBB and WFBB increased (P < 0.05) with increased frozen storage time at -40 C for 90 d. The RFBB with MC exhibited the lowest TBA values, whereas WFBB had the highest values. Microstructural analysis revealed that freezing caused structural deterioration of all batters, but the RFBB with MC exhibited less freezing tolerance than other samples. The total plate counts of immediately fried or frozen fried chicken stored for 90 d were less than 1 log cfu/g sample. The RFBB with 5% oxidized corn starch and MC can replace WFBB on fried drumsticks. Additionally, RFBB results in a healthier product due to lower fat absorption.
11470000	Recent advances in prevention and treatment of cholera have occurred in the areas of vaccine testing, modifications of oral-rehydration solutions (ORS), and antimicrobial treatment. Oral vaccines consisting of killed whole bacterial cells (WC) with and without the B-subunit of cholera toxin (BS) were shown to be effective in large trials in Bangladesh, Peru, and Vietnam. However, the trials did not resolve whether two or three doses of vaccine are required and whether BS adds significantly to the immune protection of WC. Live, attenuated bacterial vaccines that are immunogenic and have been shown protective in human volunteer studies are candidates for future field trials. Rehydration of patients is a life- saving effort. The best ORS contains rice powder in place of glucose, and solutions with reduced osmolarity (245 mOsm/L, sodium 75 mEq/L) are as effective as standard ORS. Ciprofloxacin in a single dose is effective in adults, and erythromycin or ampicillin in multiple doses is effective in children.
11470159	Type III carboxypeptidase (CPD3) is one of the hydrolytic enzymes whose expression is up-regulated by gibberellins (GA) in the aleurones of germinated cereal grains. A number of pyrimidine boxes and a sequence resembling the gibberellic acid response element (GARE) are observed in the region upstream of the transcription initiation site of the CPD3 gene, showing a characteristic of cereal GA-responsive genes. Transient gene expression assays in germinated rice aleurone demonstrated that the CPD3 promoter was able to confer hormonally responses on the expression of the reporter gene. By southwestern screening, several cDNAs encoding the Dof class proteins were isolated from a rice aleurone library. Each mRNA accumulation for five novel members of Dof proteins (OsDof1--5) occurs with a different time course and in a tissue-specific manner following the germination of grains. Of these, the expression of the OsDof3 gene is abundant in aleurones where it precedes that of the CPD3 gene, implying that this is an early response gene of GA. The OsDof3 protein, expressed in Escherichia coli, selectively bound AAAG motifs of the pyrimidine boxes through the DNA-binding activity of its Dof domain. Co-expression experiments in aleurones suggested that the OsDof3 protein should play a regulatory role in the expression of the CPD3 gene under the control of GA.
11470506	The 20S proteasome is the proteolytic complex that is involved in removing abnormal proteins and other diverse biological functions. The 20S proteasome is constituted of 28 subunits arranged in four rings of seven subunits, and exists as a hollow cylinder. The two outer rings and the two inner rings are composed of seven different alpha and beta type subunits, respectively, giving an alpha 7 beta 7 beta 7 alpha 7 structure. We previously reported the primary structures of the 14 proteasomal subunit subfamilies in rice (Oryza sativa), representing the first set for all the subfamilies from monocot. In this study, a distinct cDNA sequence encoding the alpha1 subunit, OsPAA2, was identified. The amino acid sequence similarity between the two rice alpha1 subunits was as low as 59.6%, contrasting with those between paralogs of Arabidopsis proteasome subunit genes. The expression pattern of the OsPAA2 gene was different from that of another alpha1 gene, OsPAA1. These data suggest that OsPAA2 might play a distinct role from that of OsPAA1 in the 20S proteasome complex.
11470540	Replication protein A (RPA), which is comprised of three subunits, is an important factor involved in DNA replication, repair, and transcription. We isolated and characterized 70 and 32 kDa subunits of RPA from rice (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare) termed OsRPA70a and OsRPA32. OsRPA70a shows a low level of homology with OsRPA1 which was isolated from deepwater rice (Oryza sativa cv. Pin Gaew 56), previously. We also succeeded to isolate OsRPA70b which is homologue to OsRPA1 from Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare. OsRPA70a shows only 33.8% sequence identity with OsRPA70b, indicating that two different types of 70 kDa RPA subunits are present in Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare. These subunits showed differences in their expression patterns among tissues. The transcripts of OsRPA70a and OsRPA32 were expressed strongly in proliferating tissues such as root tips and young leaves that contain root apical meristem and marginal meristem, respectively, and weakly in the mature leaves which have no proliferating tissues. On the other hand, OsRPA70b was expressed mostly in the proliferating tissues. The roles of these molecules in plant DNA replication and DNA repair are discussed.
11471727	The underground portion of the Welsh onion (Allium fistulosum) was extracted and separated into seven fractions to purify allelopathic compounds that were found to promote the growth of rice seedlings (Oryza sativa). The 80% (v/v) ethanol-insoluble fraction of the hot water extract showed the highest growth-promoting effect. Purification by DEAE-cellulose chromatography gave four fractions, AD-1, 2, 3 and 4. AD-3 at 1000 ppm stimulated root and shoot growth by about 2.4 and 1.5 times over the respective water and sucrose-treated controls. The molecular weight of AD-3 was roughly estimated as 630 kDa by gel permeation chromatography. Seventy two percent (by wt.) of AD-3 was a carbohydrate and no proteins were detected. A GC analysis of the neutral sugar composition revealed the presence of Gal (50.1%), Man (17.9%), Ara (10.4%), Rha (8.8%), Glc (7.2%) and Xyl (5.6%). About 3% (by wt.) of the total carbohydrate was uronic acid, which was identified as GalU by a GC analysis. The remainder of AD-3 was extracted in ethyl acetate after its hydrolysis with 2 M HCl. The major component of the ethyl acetate-soluble fraction was identified as unsaturated linear primary alcohols, 1-tetradecanol and 1-octadecanol (16% and 84% by peak areas from GC, respectively) by means of NMR and GC-MS. Sole or combined treatment of these alcohols did not affect the growth of rice seedlings. After partial hydrolysis with 0.2 M trifluoroacetic acid or by a sodium periodate treatment, the activity of AD-3 had completely disappeared, suggesting that the sugar moiety and/or molecular size were important for the activity.
11472500	Two cellulose-fermenting methanogenic enrichment cultures originating from rice soil, one at 15 degrees C with Methanosaeta and the other at 30 degrees C with Methanosarcina as the dominant acetoclastic methanogen, both degraded cellulose anaerobically via propionate, acetate and H2 to CH4. The degradation was a two-stage process, with CH4 production mainly from H2/CO2 and accumulation of acetate and propionate during the first, and methanogenic consumption of acetate during the second stage. Aeration stress of 12, 24, 36 and 76 h duration was applied to these microbial communities during both stages of cellulose degradation. The longer the aeration stress, the stronger the inhibition of CH4 production at both 30 degrees C and 15 degrees C. The 72 h stressed culture at 30 degrees C did not fully recover. Aeration stress at 30 degrees C exerted a more pronounced effect, but lasted for a shorter time than that at 15 degrees C. The aeration stress was especially effective during the second stage of fermentation, when consumption of acetate (and to a lesser extent propionate) was also increasingly inhibited as the duration of the stress increased. The patterns of CH4 production and metabolite accumulation were consistent with changes observed in the methanogenic archaeal community structure. Fluorescence in situ hybridization showed that the total microbial community at the beginning consisted of about 4% and 10% archaea, which increased to about 50% and 30% during the second stage of cellulose degradation at 30 degrees C and 15 degrees C respectively. Methanosarcina and Methanosaeta species became the dominant archaea at 30 degrees C and 15 degrees C respectively. The first round of aeration stress mainly reduced the non-Methanosarcina archaea (30 degrees C) and the non-Methanosaeta archaea (15 degrees C). Aeration stress also retarded the growth of Methanosarcina and Methanosaeta at 30 degrees C and 15 degrees C respectively. The longer the stress, the lower was the percentage of Methanosarcina cells to total microbial cells after the first stress at 30 degrees C. A later aeration stress decreased the population of Methanosarcina (at 30 degrees C) in relation to the duration of stress, so that non-Methanosarcina archaea became dominant. Hence, aeration stress affected the acetotrophic methanogens more than the hydrogenotrophic ones, thus explaining the metabolism of the intermediates of cellulose degradation under the different incubation conditions.
11472551	Studies of the effects of insect-resistant transgenic plants on beneficial insects have, to date, concentrated mainly on either small-scale "worst case scenario" laboratory experiments or on field trials. We present a laboratory method using large population cages that represent an intermediate experimental scale, allowing the study of ecological and behavioural interactions between transgenic plants, pests and their natural enemies under more controlled conditions than is possible in the field. Previous studies have also concentrated on natural enemies of lepidopteran and coleopteran target pests. However, natural enemies of other pests, which are not controlled by the transgenic plants, are also potentially exposed to the transgene product when feeding on hosts. The reduction in the use of insecticides on transgenic crops could lead to increasing problems with such nontarget pests, normally controlled by sprays, especially if there are any negative effects of the transgenic plant on their natural enemies. This study tested two lines of insect-resistant transgenic oilseed rape (Brassica napus) for side-effects on the hymenopteran parasitoid Diaeretiella rapae and its aphid host, Myzus persicae. One transgenic line expressed the delta-endotoxin Cry1Ac from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) and a second expressed the proteinase inhibitor oryzacystatin I (OC-I) from rice. These transgenic plant lines were developed to provide resistance to lepidopteran and coleopteran pests, respectively. No detrimental effects of the transgenic oilseed rape lines on the ability of the parasitoid to control aphid populations were observed. Adult parasitoid emergence and sex ratio were also not consistently altered on the transgenic oilseed rape lines compared with the wild-type lines.
11472935	A mechanistic approach is presented to describe oxidation of the greenhouse gas methane in the rice rhizosphere of flooded paddies by obligate methanotrophic bacteria. In flooded rice paddies these methanotrophs compete for available O(2) with other types of bacteria. Soil incubation studies and most-probable-number (MPN) counts of oxygen consumers show that microbial oxygen consumption rates were dominated by heterotrophic and methanotrophic respiration. MPN counts of methanotrophs showed large spatial and temporal variability. The most abundant methanotrophs (a Methylocystis sp.) and heterotrophs (a Pseudomonas sp. and a Rhodococcus sp.) were isolated and characterized. Growth dynamics of these bacteria under carbon and oxygen limitations are presented. Theoretical calculations based on measured growth dynamics show that methanotrophs were only able to outcompete heterotrophs at low oxygen concentrations (frequently < 5 microM). The oxygen concentration at which methanotrophs won the competition from heterotrophs did not depend on methane concentration, but it was highly affected by organic carbon concentrations in the paddy soil. Methane oxidation was severely inhibited at high acetate concentrations. This is in accordance with competition experiments between Pseudomonas spp. and Methylocystis spp. carried out at different oxygen and carbon concentrations. Likely, methane oxidation mainly occurs at microaerophilic and low-acetate conditions and thus not directly at the root surface. Acetate and oxygen concentrations in the rice rhizosphere are in the critical range for methane oxidation, and a high variability in methane oxidation rates is thus expected.
11472944	In addition to forming symbiotic nodules on legumes, rhizobial strains are members of soil or rhizosphere communities or occur as endophytes, e.g., in rice. Two rhizobial strains which have been isolated from root nodules of the aquatic legumes Aeschynomene fluminensis (IRBG271) and Sesbania aculeata (IRBG74) were previously found to promote rice growth. In addition to analyzing their phylogenetic positions, we assessed the suitability of the 16S-23S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) intergenic spacer (IGS) sequences for the differentiation of closely related rhizobial taxa and for the development of PCR protocols allowing the specific detection of strains in the environment. 16S rDNA sequence analysis (sequence identity, 99%) and phylogenetic analysis of IGS sequences showed that strain IRBG271 was related to but distinct from Bradyrhizobium elkanii. Rhizobium sp. (Sesbania) strain IRBG74 was located in the Rhizobium-Agrobacterium cluster as a novel lineage according to phylogenetic 16S rDNA analysis (96.8 to 98.9% sequence identity with Agrobacterium tumefaciens; emended name, Rhizobium radiobacter). Strain IRBG74 harbored four copies of rRNA operons whose IGS sequences varied only slightly (2 to 9 nucleotides). The IGS sequence analyses allowed intraspecies differentiation, especially in the genus Bradyrhizobium, as illustrated here for strains of Bradyrhizobium japonicum, B. elkanii, Bradyrhizobium liaoningense, and Bradyrhizobium sp. (Chamaecytisus) strain BTA-1. It also clearly differentiated fast-growing rhizobial species and strains, albeit with lower statistical significance. Moreover, the high sequence variability allowed the development of highly specific IGS-targeted nested-PCR assays. Strains IRBG74 and IRBG271 were specifically detected in complex DNA mixtures of numerous related bacteria and in the DNA of roots of gnotobiotically cultured or even of soil-grown rice plants after inoculation. Thus, IGS sequence analysis is an attractive technique for both microbial ecology and systematics.
11473706	The physiological and biochemical factors contributing to poor grain filling of indica-japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) hybrids were studied by analyzing the role of grain sink strength in dry matter accumulation of grains of two types of rice cultivars, Yayou 2 (an indica-japonica hybrid) and Yanjing 2 (a japonica cultivar). Carbon dioxide enrichment and plant hormone application were imposed at anthesis and the number of endosperm cells, dry matter accumulation and the activities of some sugar-metabolizing enzymes of grains were measured during grain filling. In Yayou 2, strong-potential grains (SPGs) accumulated dry weight much earlier than weak-potential grains (WPGs), but this difference was not obvious for Yanjing 2. Carbon dioxide enrichment imposed after heading significantly stimulated dry matter accumulation of WPGs of Yayou 2, but had little influence on WPGs of Yanjing 2 and SPGs of both cultivars. Leaf sheath dry matter decreased steadily in both cultivars during early stages of grain filling and accumulated during the later stages. Carbon dioxide enrichment increased leaf sheath dry matter. Dry matter accumulated by grains was linearly related to the increases in endosperm cell numbers and the activities of sucrose synthase (SS) and ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) in SPGs and WPGs of both cultivars. Application of either 6-benzyladenine or abscisic acid had no significant influences on both endosperm cell number and grain dry matter accumulation. These results suggest that grain sink strength, determined by both cell numbers, SS and AGPase activities in the endosperm control the dry matter accumulation of grains.
11474900	Preparation of a tape ketan starter material called ragi tape was described by using pure cultures of A. rouxii, S. cerevisiae, P. anomale (HA 122) and P. anomale (HA 893) grown on rice. In a fermentation experiment this self-produced ragi tape was compared with a commercial available ragi tape (NKL). In addition to that, the growth of fungi, yeast and bacteria as well as the biochemical changes during the fermentation process of tape ketan were monitored. To do this, samples were taken periodically after 0, 5, 10, 15, 24, 36, 48 and 60 h fermentation with a commercially available starter (Tebu) at 30 degrees C. Samples were analysed for DM, ash, total N, soluble N, glucose before and after hydrolysis, ethanol, lactic acid, pH and viable cell count. Results show that a palatable product was ready for consumption after 48 h. Finally, tape ketan was prepared using two different samples of Indonesian ragi tape (Tebu) as inoculum and the products were compared by their nutritional constituents.
11476466	Lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) are highly conserved proteins present in a broad spectrum of fruits and vegetables that might represent a novel plant panallergen. To demonstrate that LTP is an important allergen in beer and that beer LTP cross-reacts with LTP from botanically unrelated plant-derived foods. Serum from a patient with clinical allergy to both beer and Rosaceae was studied for IgE reactivity to LTP to several vegetable foods by RAST, ELISA, immunoblot, and inhibition studies. Patient's serum showed a strong IgE reactivity to LTP purified from peach peel, carrot, and broccoli, and to a 10 kD protein in both apple and peach immunoblots, whereas no reactivity to birch cross-reactive allergens such as Bet v 1, profilin, or carbohydrates was found. In inhibition studies, preabsorption of serum with apple, walnut, hazelnut, peanut, corn, and rice caused a fall of 97%, 20%, 66%, 91%, 94%, and 93%, respectively, of its reactivity to peach LTP. Beer RAST fell from 1.8 IU/mL to <0.1 IU/mL when a patient's serum was preabsorbed with recombinant carrot LTP. LTP is a relevant allergen in beer. Beer LTP may cross-react with LTP from several other plant-derived foods.
11478654	A new fluorescent reagent, 2-hydroxy-1-naphthaldehydene-8-aminoquinoline (HNAAQ), was synthesized. The fluorescent reaction of this reagent with lead was also studied. Based on this chelation, a highly sensitive spectrofluorimetric method was developed for the determination of trace amounts of lead in a water-ethanol (5 + 1, v/v) medium at pH = 9.4. Under these conditions, the Pb-HNAAQ complex has excitation and emission maxima at 398 and 450 nm, respectively. The linear range of the method is from 0 to 100 microg l(-1) and detection limit is 0.28 microg l(-1) of lead. Interference of other ions was studied. In strongly basic media most interfering metal ions form precipitates of hydroxides or oxides and can be removed efficiently through filtration while the residual cations can be removed with a cation-exchange resin. Hence, the selectivity of the method can be increased considerably. The procedure can easily be performed and affords good precision and accuracy. The method was successfully applied to the determination of lead in wheat and rice flour.
11479384	Azospirillum spp. are endophytic bacteria with beneficial effects on cereals--effects partially attributed to gibberellin production by the microorganisms. Azospirillum lipoferum and Azospirillum brasilense inoculated to rice dy mutant reversed dwarfism in seedlings incubated with [17,17-2H2]GA20 with formation of [17,17-2H2]GA1, showing the in vivo capacity to perform the 3beta-hydroxylation. When prohexadione-Ca, an inhibitor of late steps in gibberellin biosynthesis, was added to the culture medium, no complementation was observed and no [17,17-2H2]GA1 was produced. The latter suggests that the bacterial operating enzyme may be a 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase, similar to those of plants.
11479454	The conquest of malignant hypertension is one of the most important medical achievements of the second half of the 20th century. As we enter the new millennium, it is critical to examine the efforts that have led to our ability to treat this once incurable disease. Review was performed of the literature from 1900 to the 1950s regarding the etiology, clinical evaluation, and treatment of hypertension, focusing on malignant hypertension. Fifty years ago, in a time of sparse treatment options, the occurrence of malignant hypertension was a dreaded event that taxed the aptitude of the clinician. Confronted with an "extreme disease," physicians chose to use "extreme methods of cure" in conformity with the teaching of Hippocrates. In the 1950s malignant hypertension was treated with such drastic measures as rice diet, sympathectomy, and intravenous pyrogens. In the practice of medicine today, while work is being done to reassert biomolecular mechanisms, we still face patients who have reached the end stages of failure and manifest devastating morbidity. These patients are subjected to "extreme therapies" reminiscent of those that surrounded malignant hypertension in the past. In an era when adequate treatment of hypertension has become a reality for so many patients, it is appropriate to give credit to those who paved the way to such great progress.
11479934	Large numbers of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) have now been generated from a variety of model organisms. In plants, substantial collections of ESTs are available for Arabidopsis and rice, in each case representing significant proportions of the estimated total numbers of genes. Large-scale comparisons of Arabidopsis and rice sequences are especially interesting due to the fact that these two species are representatives of the two subclasses of the flowering plants (Dicotyledonae and Monocotyledonae, respectively). Here we present the results of systematic analysis of the Arabidopsis and rice EST sets. Non-redundant sets of sequences from Arabidopsis and rice were first separately derived and then combined so that gene families in common between the two species could be identified. Our results show that 58% of non-singleton ESTs are derived from genes in gene families common to the two species. These gene families constitute the basis of a core set of higher plant genes.
11480174	F1 progenies of a genic male sterile and early maturing indica line 6442S-7 crossed with sixteen medium or late maturing varieties, such as Minghui 63, shared the same heading date as 6442S-7 under long day and short day, suggesting that 6442S-7 has completely dominant earliness. Segregation of heading dates of the F2 and B1F1 populations indicated that the earliness of 6442S-7 is mainly controlled by two dominant major genes. Whereas, heading dates of F1 progenies of 6442S-7 crossed with other four late maturing varieties, i.e. IR68, Xianguo, 9311, and BG1639, closed to the mid-parent value under long day. In F2 populations of 6442S-7 crossed with each of the four late maturing varieties, F1 from three-way crosses between 6442S-7 and each F1 of Minghui 63 crossed with each of the four late maturing varieties, and F1 from three-way crosses between 6442S-7 and each F1 of crosses between each two of the four late maturing varieties, segregation of heading dates showed that an incompletely diminant allelic suppressor for the dominant earliness of 6442S-7 existed in the late maturing varieties, IR68, Xianguo, 9311, and BG1639. It is considered that dominant earliness genes harbored in 6442S-7 have splendid future in rice improvement.
11480214	Like other bamboo species, Dendrocalamus strictus flowers gregariously after a prolonged intermast period of 48 years and constitutes an ideal material for in vitro clonal propagation. In this study, MS liquid medium containing 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mL/L vipul (Godrej Agrovet, Ltd., Sachin, India), a commercial formulation of triacontanol, with or without BA (3.0 mg/L) was tested for in vitro shoot multiplication and 1.0, 2.5 and 5.0 mL/L of 20% (w/v) alcoholic/aqueous rice bran extract (alone or in combination) with NAA (3 mg/L) used for in vitro adventitious rhizogenesis in single node culture derived shoots of Dendrocalamus strictus.. After a multiplication cycle for 4-5 week, vipul (0.5 mL/L) with BA (3.0 mg/L) in the culture medium induced 4.59 fold shoot multiplication rate whereas application of BA and vipul alone had corresponding values of 3.29 and 0.53 fold respectively. Maximum vipul concentration (2 mL/L) with BA (3 mg/L) exhibited shoot multiplication higher than (or equal to) that of BA alone. Maximum in vitro rooting percentage (55.66%) was obtained on half MS medium enriched with alcoholic rice bran extract (2.5 mL/L) and NAA (3 mg/L). This is the first investigation reporting amelioration of in vitro shoot multiplication rate by triacontanol and rooting percentage by rice bran extract in explants from mature bamboo culms. The protocol is economical and rapid for in vitro clonal propagation of Dendrocalamus strictus.
11480774	Spectral characteristics of rice plants at various levels of infestation by the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Stl), (Homoptera:Delphacidae), in the early grain-filling stage were measured and analyzed using a spectroradiometer. Plant damage was classified into six scales, i.e., 0 (CK), 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9, based on the scale of infestation displayed on the surfaces of plant parts. Results showed that mean curves of reflectance spectra (350 - 1800 nm) from different scales of insect infestation were clearly differentiated, especially in the region of 737 - 925 nm, where reflectance was in the order of severity. There were significant differences in reflectance among infestations at wavelengths of 755 and 890 nm particularly. Spectral parameters such as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and cumulative reflectance may also be used to discriminate levels of infestation. Twelve wavelengths from apparent peaks and valleys of individual spectra were selected as characteristic wavelengths making up the spectral signature of each infestation.
11481043	We purified a glutamyl endopeptidase that is a major foliar endopeptidase in cucumber. The endopeptidase had a molecular mass of 400 kDa, consisted of four subunits of 97 kDa, and was inactivated by SH-modifying reagents. Its optimum pH and optimum temperature were 8.0 and 30-37 degrees C, respectively. An internal amino acid sequence of the endopeptidase was highly homologous to a partial sequence of unidentified proteins deduced from genetic information for Arabidopsis thaliana, soybean and rice, but not to the sequences of bacterial glutamyl endopeptidases or animal proteases. Therefore, the unidentified proteins might be glutamyl endopeptidases and be widely distributed only among plant species. The activity of the cucumber glutamyl endopeptidase was inhibited by at least three inhibitors existing in cucumber leaves. One of the inhibitors was a competitive inhibitor of 25 kDa, which did not significantly inhibit commercial endopeptidases derived from animals and microorganisms. This suggests that the cucumber glutamyl endopeptidase might be controlled by endogenous inhibitors in vivo.
11483586	A total of 57.8 Mb of publicly available rice (Oryza sativa L.) DNA sequence was searched to determine the frequency and distribution of different simple sequence repeats (SSRs) in the genome. SSR loci were categorized into two groups based on the length of the repeat motif. Class I, or hypervariable markers, consisted of SSRs > or =20 bp, and Class II, or potentially variable markers, consisted of SSRs > or =12 bp <20 bp. The occurrence of Class I SSRs in end-sequences of EcoRI- and HindIII-digested BAC clones was one SSR per 40 Kb, whereas in continuous genomic sequence (represented by 27 fully sequenced BAC and PAC clones), the frequency was one SSR every 16 kb. Class II SSRs were estimated to occur every 3.7 kb in BAC ends and every 1.9 kb in fully sequenced BAC and PAC clones. GC-rich trinucleotide repeats (TNRs) were most abundant in protein-coding portions of ESTs and in fully sequenced BACs and PACs, whereas AT-rich TNRs showed no such preference, and di- and tetranucleotide repeats were most frequently found in noncoding, intergenic regions of the rice genome. Microsatellites with poly(AT)n repeats represented the most abundant and polymorphic class of SSRs but were frequently associated with the Micropon family of miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) and were difficult to amplify. A set of 200 Class I SSR markers was developed and integrated into the existing microsatellite map of rice, providing immediate links between the genetic, physical, and sequence-based maps. This contribution brings the number of microsatellite markers that have been rigorously evaluated for amplification, map position, and allelic diversity in Oryza spp. to a total of 500.
11486387	A simple and rapid method using capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) for the determination of milt protein (MP), which contains mainly protamine, and polylysine (PL) in food additive preparations and processed foods was developed. CZE separation was performed on poly(vinyl alcohol)-coated capillaries at a column temperature of 20 degrees C with 120 mmol/L phosphate buffer (pH 2.5) as the running buffer. The influence of various components in food additive preparations on CZE analysis of MP and PL was examined. Egg white lysozyme, glycine, sodium acetate, glycerol, fumaric acid, calcium carbonate, dextrin, emulsifiers and sodium polyphosphate and pyrophosphate had no effect. No peak of protamine was detected in preparations containing metaphosphate. The analysis method for processed foods was composed of extraction with 4% formic acid, precipitation of macromolecular compounds with ethanol, concentration in a water bath and determination by CZE. The average recoveries were 108.4% for protamine sulfate (PS) in red bean sticky rice, and 81.3% for PL in white rice, 118% in egg sandwiches, and 115% in shiraae. The limits of detection of PS in red bean sticky rice and PL in white rice were both 50 ppm.
114865
11486881	Plant membrane lipids were separated by multiple solid-phase extraction (SPE) in a single run. Elution was performed continuously through the modulated stationary phase employing only non-aqueous solvent systems. At the different stages of the glycerolipid separation the SPE manifold combined arninopropyl, arninopropyl/silica gel and silica gel/aminopropyl weak anion exchanger columns. The glycerolipid extract of pigment-containing plant tissues was cleared from the pigments onto the aminopropyl column. The aminopropyl column with the glycerolipid extract was then connected to a silica gel column from which monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol and digalactosyldiacylglycerol were eluted as individual fractions. The elution was performed under polarity, pH and temperature gradient conditions. To continue the separation, the aminopropyl column was discarded and the silica gel column containing the remaining glycerolipid extract was connected to an aminopropyl anion exchanger column. Individual fractions of sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylinositol were now eluted. The separation process was supported by ammonium counter ions and by the polarity gradient of the elution systems used. The membrane lipids were isolated from pigment-containing (rice and maize leaves and rice leafy stems) and pigment-free (rice roots) tissues. The repeatability for a standard glycerolipid mixture was 2-6% (n=7), and for rice leaf lipid extracts, 3-7% (n=5). Glycerolipid recovery was 87-95%.
11487693	Bioactive gibberellins (GAs) are essential endogenous regulators of plant growth. GA signaling is mediated via GAI, a nuclear member of the GRAS family of plant transcription factors. Previous experiments have suggested that GAI is a GA-derepressible repressor of plant growth. Here we test this hypothesis by examining the effects of the expression of Arabidopsis GAI in transgenic Basmati rice. High-level expression of GAI caused dwarfism and reduced GA responses, and the strength of this effect was correlated with the level of transgene expression. In particular, the expression of GAI abolished the GA-mediated induction of rice aleurone alpha-amylase activity, thus implicating GAI orthologs in the well-characterized cereal aleurone GA response. The GA derepressible repressor model predicts that high-level expression of GAI should confer dwarfism, and these observations are consistent with this prediction.
11487698	Shoot architecture and flowering time in angiosperms depend on the balanced expression of a large number of flowering time and flower meristem identity genes. Loss-of-function mutations in the Arabidopsis EMBRYONIC FLOWER (EMF) genes cause Arabidopsis to eliminate rosette shoot growth and transform the apical meristem from indeterminate to determinate growth by producing a single terminal flower on all nodes. We have identified the EMF1 gene by positional cloning. The deduced polypeptide has no homology with any protein of known function except a putative protein in the rice genome with which EMF1 shares common motifs that include nuclear localization signals, P-loop, and LXXLL elements. Alteration of EMF1 expression in transgenic plants caused progressive changes in flowering time, shoot determinacy, and inflorescence architecture. EMF1 and its related sequence may belong to a new class of proteins that function as transcriptional regulators of phase transition during shoot development.
11489174	Using transgenic rice seedlings expressing a firefly luciferase (luc) gene under the control of a rice CAB (chlorophyll a/b binding protein) promoter, we demonstrated how light affects circadian clocks in the transcription of the CAB gene. Rhythmic luc expression was observed for more than 5 d under constant light and dark (DD) conditions after light/dark entrainment. After a light pulse was applied at different time points in DD various temporal patterns of CAB gene expression were individually observed. We first examined two distinct properties related to the entrainment mechanism of the circadian clock: fluence-rate dependence of free-running periods (FRPs) and phase resetting by a light pulse. Although fluence-rate dependent shortening of FRP was demonstrated, the FRP in DD was almost equal to that in constant light of a middle fluence-rate, indicating that this fluence-rate dependence may not fully describe the entrainment of the circadian clock in rice. Typical phase responses of the circadian clock by a single light pulse were also observed at the transcriptional level in rice seedlings. Thus, the phase resettings upon the light/dark transitions of daily cycles may be sufficient to explain the entrainment mechanisms of rice. We have further demonstrated that, in addition to having a gating effect to acute response, a light pulse can activate the circadian clock-controlled CAB1R gene expression at the first circadian peak in a phase-dependent manner. This suggests that light activates circadian clock activity in the diurnal CAB gene expression under daily light/dark cycles.
11489175	We screened plant genome sequences, primarily from rice and Arabidopsis thaliana, for CpG islands, and identified DNA segments rich in CpG dinucleotides within these sequences. These CpG-rich clusters appeared in the analysed sequences as discrete peaks and occurred at the frequencies of one per 4.7 kb in rice and one per 4.0 kb in A. thaliana. In rice and A. thaliana, most of the CpG-rich clusters were associated with genes, which suggests that these clusters are useful landmarks in genome sequences for identifying genes in plants with small genomes. In contrast, in plants with larger genomes, only a few of the clusters were associated with genes. These plant CpG-rich clusters satisfied the criteria used for identifying human CpG islands, which suggests that these CpG clusters may be regarded as plant CpG islands. The position of each island relative to the 5'-end of its associated gene varied considerably. Genes in the analysed sequences were grouped into five classes according to the position of the CpG islands within their associated genes. A large proportion of the genes belonged to one of two classes, in which a CpG island occurred near the 5'-end of the gene or covered the whole gene region. The position of a plant CpG island within its associated gene appeared to be related to the extent of tissue-specific expression of the gene; the CpG islands of most of the widely expressed rice genes occurred near the 5'-end of the genes.
11489188	The Arabidopsis NPR1/NIM1 gene is a key regulator of systemic acquired resistance (SAR). Over-expression of NPR1 leads to enhanced resistance in Arabidopsis. To investigate the role of NPR1 in monocots, we over-expressed the Arabidopsis NPR1 in rice and challenged the transgenic plants with Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the rice bacterial blight pathogen. The transgenic plants displayed enhanced resistance to Xoo. RNA blot hybridization indicates that enhanced resistance requires expression of NPR1 mRNA above a threshold level in rice. To identify components mediating the resistance controlled by NPR1, we used NPR1 as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen. We isolated four cDNA clones encoding rice NPR1 interactors (named rTGA2.1, rTGA2.2, rTGA2.3 and rLG2) belonging to the bZIP family. rTGA2.1, rTGA2.2 and rTGA2.3 share 75, 76 and 78% identity with Arabidopsis TGA2, respectively. In contrast, rLG2 shares highest identity (81%) to the maize liguleless (LG2) gene product, which is involved in establishing the leaf blade-sheath boundary. The interaction of NPR1 with the rice bZIP proteins in yeast was impaired by the npr1-1 and npr1-2 mutations, but not by the nim1-4 mutation. The NPR1-rTGA2.1 interaction was confirmed by an in vitro pull-down experiment. In gel mobility shift assays, rTGA2.1 binds to the rice RCH10 promoter and to a cis-element required sequence-specifically for salicylic acid responsiveness. This is the first demonstration that the Arabidopsis NPR1 gene can enhance disease resistance in a monocot plant. These results also suggest that monocot and dicot plants share a conserved signal transduction pathway controlling NPR1-mediated resistance.
11494103	This study was conducted to determine the time-dependent changes of solid-state fermentation of rice with Monascus purpureus to produce anka and anka pigments. Growth of the fungus occurred prior to the synthesis of anka pigments. A steady increase in the yield of pigments occurred between the 5th and 15th days. After 15 days, growth of the fungus on rice substrate ceased and the yield of yellow anka pigments remained constant; however, orange anka pigments were reduced with a decreasing rate of 3.6 mg/g anka/day.
11495019	The environmental fate and distribution of fungicide epoxiconazole were studied by a rice paddy field model ecosystem. One week before the head-sprouting stage, rice plant was treated separately once with OPUS (tradename of epoxiconazole) 12% SC 2.1 kg ha(-1) and 1.4 kg ha(-1), respectively. Soil, water and rice plant were sampled seven days intervals nine times after application. The bioconcentration factor of epoxiconazole on mosquito fish in the ecosystem was also determined, based on the amounts of epoxiconazole content both in fish and water. This was initiated one day after the fungicide treatment, and continued for four days. In addition, the residue of epoxiconazole in rice grains was analyzed after harvest. After harvest, both planted water spinach (Ipomoea aquatica Forsk) and edible amaranth (Amaranthus mangostans L.) were analyzed. The results showed that epoxiconazole degraded in the local environment under the experimental conditions described. The degradation equations were in accordance with the first order kinetics. The DT50 of soil, field water and rice plant were 20-69 days, 11-20 days and 14-39 days, respectively. The bioconcentration factors of epoxiconazole on mosquito fish were 12.9 and 10.6 from 2.1 kg ha(-1) and 1.4 kg ha(-1) treatment, respectively. Residues of epoxiconazole in both rice and harvest vegetables were non-detectable. This indicates that epoxiconazole applied to rice at the recommended rates and application frequencies will not accumulate on rice grain and successive cropping vegetables.
11497665	Non-Gaussian height fluctuations occurring on the fueling time scale of a slowly driven rice pile match those observed in some turbulent/critical phenomena, forming an anticorrelated random fractal process with Hurst exponent H=0.2. Inspired by this observation, the concept of fractional Brownian motion (FBM) is extended to treat stochastic processes with skewed increments. Simulations of this process for antipersistent motion have first return time distribution deviating from the t(-2+H) law for FBM. The first return time distribution of this fractional non-Brownian motion describes and quantitatively determines the trapping-time distribution of grains in rice piles upon incorporating a continuous representation of the additional height fluctuations that occur on the time scale between fueling events.
1150011	Specific death rates for esophageal cancer by each city and county in Japan were calculated. Nara and Wakayama Prefectures formed a high death-rate area with some neighboring cities and counties in other perfectures. Inhabitants of these area are known by the custom of taking "Chagayu", tea-cooked rice gruel. According to this survey on the habit of taking hot tea-gruel, with over 5,000 teachers and their families aged over 50 years old, the distribution of the precentages of taking tea-gruel among surveyed subjects by cities and counties was similar to that of the death rates for esophageal cancer. Also, in Yamaguchi Prefecture, western-most prefecture of the main island (Honshu), there was an area which showed a similar condition. The result of this survey suggests that taking hot tea-gruel is one of possible factors for esophageal cancer in these districts.
11500548	Anthranilate synthase (AS) is a key enzyme in the synthesis of tryptophan (Trp), indole-3-acetic acid, and indole alkaloids. Two genes, OASA1 and OASA2, encoding AS alpha-subunits were isolated from a monocotyledonous plant, rice (Oryza sativa cv Nipponbare), and were characterized. A phylogenetic tree of AS alpha-subunits from various species revealed a close evolutionary relationship among OASA1 and Arabidopsis ASA2, Ruta graveolens AS alpha 2, and tobacco ASA2, whereas OASA2, Arabidopsis ASA1, and R. graveolens AS alpha 1 were more distantly related. OASA1 is expressed in all tissues tested, but the amount of its mRNA was greater in panicles than in leaves and roots. The abundance of OASA2 transcripts is similar among tissues and greater than that of OASA1 transcripts; furthermore, OASA2 expression was induced by a chitin heptamer, a potent elicitor, suggesting that OASA2 participates in secondary metabolism. Expression of wild-type OASA1 or OASA2 transgenes did not affect the Trp content of rice calli or plants. However, transformed calli and plants expressing a mutated OASA1 gene, OASA1(D323N), that encodes a protein in which aspartate-323 is replaced with asparagine manifested up to 180- and 35-fold increases, respectively, in Trp accumulation. These transgenic calli and plants were resistant to 300 microM 5-methyl-Trp, and AS activity of the calli showed a markedly reduced sensitivity to Trp. These results show that OASA1 is important in the regulation of free Trp concentration, and that mutation of OASA1 to render the encoded protein insensitive to feedback inhibition results in accumulation of Trp at high levels. The OASA1(D323N) transgene may prove useful for the generation of crops with an increased Trp content.
11501419	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal organism of bacterial blight of rice which produces leaf blight as well as kresek (wilt) symptoms in plants were tested for indole, auxin production in culture supplemented with L-tryptophan. On the basis of indoleacetic acid (IAA) production the isolates were grouped into IAA-positive and IAA-negative. Out of 17 isolates, 11 were IAA-positive while 6 were IAA-negative. The isolates metabolized tryptophan through two different routes and the isolates vary in the pathway of tryptophan utilization. The IAA-positive isolates converted tryptophan to IAA as the end product, whereas the IAA-negative isolates formed anthranilate as an intermediate metabolite and finally produced pyrocatechol via the kynurenine pathway. Quantification of tryptophan metabolism revealed that the maximum production of IAA and pyrocatechol in culture occurred during 2-d incubation at 30 +/- 2 degrees C.
11503069	Fipronil is a phenylpyrazole insecticide that is the active ingredient in the pesticide Icon 6.2 FS which is applied to rice seeds targeting the rice water weevil. An arthropod-selective insecticide, fipronil blocks the GABA-gated chloride channel and is unique in that several of its degradation products have been indicated to be equal or more potent than fipronil. After application of rice seeds (2-3 days postplant) to flooded rice fields, water is typically pumped from the rice fields and can be used for the culture of crayfish (Procambarus sp.). Because fipronil is selective for arthropods, is transported via organic sediment, and crayfish consume organic sediment, 96-h LC(50) experiments were conducted with fipronil and three of its environmental derivatives in crayfish under conditions without carrier solvents in water of similar pH, alkalinity, and hardness as observed in south Louisiana crayfish culture ponds. Measured LC(50)s for fipronil to red swamp (Procambarus clarkii) and white river (Procambarus zonangulus) crayfish were 14.3 (95% CI; 5.1-23.4) and 19.5 (95% CI; 11.1-27.9) microg/L, respectively. LC(50)s of fipronil sulfone (11.2; 9.2-13.2 microg/L), fipronil sulfide (15.5; 13-18 microg/L); and the photoproduct, desulfinyl fipronil (68.6; 46-95.2 microg/L) displayed very high toxicity in crayfish. In situ toxicity studies using caged crayfish in culturing ponds receiving effluent from drained rice fields indicated that effluent from rice fields planted with Icon-treated seed was significantly more toxic compared to untreated surface water (40% survival compared to 83% survival). Hazard quotient comparisons using measured water concentrations in the field and laboratory-based LC(50)s indicated that fipronil and its metabolites in water resulting from Icon-treated rice seed planting poses a significant risk to crayfish survival.
11503318	A 6-month-old girl had been admitted three times due to the sudden onset of respiratory and gastrointestinal symptoms, paleness and a reduced level of consciousness. Various laboratory tests (including allergy tests) as well as microbiological and radiological investigations did not establish the cause. Only when it was noticed that the incidents followed a change of diet, did it became obvious that a reaction to food components was the underlying cause. A provocation test revealed an anaphylactic reaction to rice flour. Food allergy is a widespread problem within paediatrics; rice flour appears to be hypoallergenic, but can lead to immunological responses.
11507760	Theoretical model calculations were performed to validate the 'mobile proton' model for protonated lysylglycine (KG). Detailed scans carried out at various quantum chemical levels of the potential energy surface (PES) of protonated KG resulted in a large number of minima belonging to various protonation sites and conformers. Transition structures corresponding to proton transfer reactions between different protonation sites were determined, to obtain some energetic and structural insight into the atomic details of these processes. The rate coefficients of the proton transfer reactions between the isomers were calculated using the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) method in order to obtain a quantitative measure of the time-scale of these processes. Our results clearly indicate that the added proton is less mobile for protonated KG than for peptides lacking a basic amino acid residue. However, the energy needed to reach the energetically less favorable but-from the point of view of backbone fragmentation-critical amide nitrogen protonation sites is available in tandem mass spectrometers operated under low-energy collision conditions. Using the results of our scan of the PES of protonated KG, the dissociation pathways corresponding to the main fragmentation channels for protonated KG were also determined. Such pathways include loss of ammonia and formation of a protonated alpha-amino-epsilon-caprolactam. The results of our theoretical modeling, which revealed all the atomic details of these processes, are in agreement with the available experimental results.
11512574	An eleven-year follow-up study was carried out to elucidate the changes in the level of environmental exposure to cadmium (Cd) from rice after soil replacement of polluted paddy fields and these effects on urinary excretion of Cd in male inhabitants of a Cd-polluted area in Toyama, Japan. In addition, the prevalence of renal tubular dysfunction (RTD) was examined to clarify the progress of Cd-induced RTD. One hundred and twenty-seven male inhabitants born between 1914 and 1929 in 11 districts of the Cd-polluted Jinzu River basin and 31 reference subjects in 2 adjacent districts were examined twice in 1985-86 and 1996-97. The geometric means of Cd concentrations in polished rice (Cd-R) in the Cd-polluted areas were 0.18 ppm in 1985 and 0.21 ppm in 1986; these values were significantly higher than those of the reference areas (0.13 ppm in 1985 and 0.12 ppm in 1986). After 11 years, the Cd-R levels were significantly decreased to approximately half (0.08 ppm in 1996, 0.12 ppm in 1997) due to soil replacement of polluted paddy fields, which has been carried out since 1980. The mean Cd levels in urine (Cd-U) were significantly reduced from 7.9 and 9.5 microg/g creatinine in the initial study to 6.9 and 6.8 microg/g creatinine in the follow-up study. However, the prevalence of RTD, which was determined by urinary beta2-microglobulin exceeding 1 mg/g creatinine and urinary glucose exceeding 150 mg/g creatinine, increased from 18 and 23% in the 1985-86 study to 25 and 32% in the 1996-97 study, and a total of 12 new cases (12%) of RTD were found. Whereas, only one subject (4%) in the reference control areas was identified as RTD. Cd-induced RTD was prevalent, progressive and irreversible for male inhabitants of the Cd-polluted Jinzu River basin, although the environmental exposure to Cd through rice was significantly reduced by soil replacement of polluted paddy fields.
11512740	Many-body effects on the oxygen 1s resonant x-ray emission spectrum (O 1s RXES) in copper-based oxides, such as Sr2CuO3 and La2CuO4, are discussed on the basis of cluster-model calculations. The Zhang-Rice singlet excitation, which is a typical many-body state in Cu-based oxide systems, can be detected at low temperatures where the antiferromagnetic correlation between the neighboring Cu spins is strong. Thus the present study emphasizes that the O 1s RXES can be a good tool to obtain information on the Cu 3d states. In particular the polarization-dependent RXES gives the symmetry-decomposed information.
11513047	Time series of rice yields consist of a technology-driven trend and variations caused by climate fluctuations. To explore the relationship between yields and climate, the trend and temporal variation often have to be separated. In this study, a progressive-difference method was applied to eliminate the trend in time series. By differentiating yields and climatic factors in 2 successive years, the relationship between variations in yield and climatic factors was determined with multiple-regression analysis. The number of hours of sunshine, the temperature and the precipitation were each defined for different intervals during the growing season and used as different regression variables. Rice yields and climate data for the Yangtze Delta of China from 1961 to 1990 were used as a case study. The number of hours of sunshine during the tillering stage and the heading to milk stage particularly affected the yield. In both periods radiation was low. In the first period, the vegetative organs of the rice crop were formed while in the second period solar radiation was important for grain filling. The average temperature during the tillering to jointing stage reached its maximum, which affected rice yields negatively. Precipitation was generally low during the jointing and booting stages, which had a positive correlation with yield, while high precipitation had a negative effect during the milk stage. The results indicate that the climatic factors should be expressed as 20- to 30-day averages in the Yangtze Delta; a shorter or longer period, e.g. 10 or 40 days, is less appropriate.
11513656	Seven impurities, namely, isopropylaniline (III), isopropylacetanilide (V), isopropylchloroacetanilide (VII), oxoanalogue (VIII), dithiodimer (IX), monothiodimer (X), and mercaptoacetanilide (XI), have been identified from technical anilofos. The quantification of each impurity was carried out by comparison with authentic samples of known concentration by GC and HPLC. The structure of authentic samples (synthesized and isolated) was established on the basis of NMR, IR, and MS spectral data. Bioassay of all the detected impurities along with three possible contaminants was carried out on transplanted rice under laboratory conditions. The oxo compound (VIII) was found to have an inhibitory effect on transplanted rice at 1 microg/g of soil.
11513677	Water samples collected once a week from early April 1996 to the end of August 1996 from four sites on the Shinano River in Japan were analyzed for pesticides and their metabolites using a gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer. Among the total of 53 chemicals found, 22 were herbicides, 15 were insecticides, 11 were fungicides, and 5 were metabolites. The concentrations of chemicals found ranged from 3 ng/L (bromobutide) to 8200 ng/L (isoprothiolane). Herbicides were found primarily during May and June at all four sites. Insecticides and fungicides were found primarily during July and August at all four sites. The presence of pesticides in the river water correlated with the time of pesticide application to the rice fields near the river.
11514457	Genome-wide physical mapping with bacteria-based large-insert clones (e.g., BACs, PACs, and PBCs) promises to revolutionize genomics of large, complex genomes. To accelerate rice and other grass species genome research, we developed a genome-wide BAC-based map of the rice genome. The map consists of 298 BAC contigs and covers 419 Mb of the 430-Mb rice genome. Subsequent analysis indicated that the contigs constituting the map are accurate and reliable. Particularly important to proficiency were (1) a high-resolution, high-throughput DNA sequencing gel-based electrophoretic method for BAC fingerprinting, (2) the use of several complementary large-insert BAC libraries, and (3) computer-aided contig assembly. It has been demonstrated that the fingerprinting method is not significantly influenced by repeated sequences, genome size, and genome complexity. Use of several complementary libraries developed with different restriction enzymes minimized the "gaps" in the physical map. In contrast to previous estimates, a clonal coverage of 6.0-8.0 genome equivalents seems to be sufficient for development of a genome-wide physical map of approximately 95% genome coverage. This study indicates that genome-wide BAC-based physical maps can be developed quickly and economically for a variety of plant and animal species by restriction fingerprint analysis via DNA sequencing gel-based electrophoresis.
11514459	To understand the genetic basis of inbreeding depression and heterosis in rice, main-effect and epistatic QTL associated with inbreeding depression and heterosis for grain yield and biomass in five related rice mapping populations were investigated using a complete RFLP linkage map of 182 markers, replicated phenotyping experiments, and the mixed model approach. The mapping populations included 254 F(10) recombinant inbred lines derived from a cross between Lemont (japonica) and Teqing (indica) and two BC and two testcross hybrid populations derived from crosses between the RILs and their parents plus two testers (Zhong 413 and IR64). For both BY and GY, there was significant inbreeding depression detected in the RI population and a high level of heterosis in each of the BC and testcross hybrid populations. The mean performance of the BC or testcross hybrids was largely determined by their heterosis measurements. The hybrid breakdown (part of inbreeding depression) values of individual RILs were negatively associated with the heterosis measurements of their BC or testcross hybrids, indicating the partial genetic overlap of genes causing hybrid breakdown and heterosis in rice. A large number of epistatic QTL pairs and a few main-effect QTL were identified, which were responsible for >65% of the phenotypic variation of BY and GY in each of the populations with the former explaining a much greater portion of the variation. Two conclusions concerning the loci associated with inbreeding depression and heterosis in rice were reached from our results. First, most QTL associated with inbreeding depression and heterosis in rice appeared to be involved in epistasis. Second, most (approximately 90%) QTL contributing to heterosis appeared to be overdominant. These observations tend to implicate epistasis and overdominance, rather than dominance, as the major genetic basis of heterosis in rice. The implications of our results in rice evolution and improvement are discussed.
11514460	The genetic basis underlying inbreeding depression and heterosis for three grain yield components of rice was investigated in five interrelated mapping populations using a complete RFLP linkage map, replicated phenotyping, and the mixed model approach. The populations included 254 F(10) recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between Lemont (japonica) and Teqing (indica), two backcross (BC) and two testcross populations derived from crosses between the RILs and the parents plus two testers (Zhong413 and IR64). For the yield components, the RILs showed significant inbreeding depression and hybrid breakdown, and the BC and testcross populations showed high levels of heterosis. The average performance of the BC or testcross hybrids was largely determined by heterosis. The inbreeding depression values of individual RILs were negatively associated with the heterosis measurements of the BC or testcross hybrids. We identified many epistatic QTL pairs and a few main-effect QTL responsible for >65% of the phenotypic variation of the yield components in each of the populations. Most epistasis occurred between complementary loci, suggesting that grain yield components were associated more with multilocus genotypes than with specific alleles at individual loci. Overdominance was also an important property of most loci associated with heterosis, particularly for panicles per plant and grains per panicle. Two independent groups of genes appeared to affect grain weight: one showing primarily nonadditive gene action explained 62.1% of the heterotic variation of the trait, and the other exhibiting only additive gene action accounted for 28.1% of the total trait variation of the F(1) mean values. We found no evidence suggesting that pseudo-overdominance from the repulsive linkage of completely or partially dominant QTL for yield components resulted in the overdominant QTL for grain yield. Pronounced overdominance resulting from epistasis expressed by multilocus genotypes appeared to explain the long-standing dilemma of how inbreeding depression could arise from overdominant genes.
11515235	This paper, using the nutrient density concept and the development of Food-Based Dietary Guidelines (FBDG), explores the nutritional adequacy of food patterns based on the main staples around the world--maize, wheat, rice and potato. The nutritional adequacy of the vitamins A, C, folates and the minerals iron, zinc and calcium in diets composed by these staples is analyzed. Projected diets modified by the addition of foods high in vitamins and minerals, based on food table composition information, are analyzed for changes in nutritional adequacy, in order to cover the nutritional requirements of all family members. This theoretical exercise shows that diets diversified by the addition of relatively small quantities (27-70 g) of foods like fruits, vegetables, legumes and meat improve substantially the nutritional adequacy of the vitamins A, C, folates, iron and zinc. In the case of calcium, the addition of a dairy source becomes essential. From the practical point of view, the implementation of the food based approach requires a national effort in order to support the production of nutrient rich foods and to promote consciousness of nutrient bioavailability, so that people may obtain all nutrient potential from foods. Simultaneously, the need of fortification programs at the national level is recognized. This is the case for critical nutrients, where requirements might be above the potential in available foods. A similar situation occurs in the case of vulnerable groups like pregnant women and infants, who need supplementation to ensure nutritional adequacy of their diets. In conclusion, the use of FBDG is a good alternative for improving the nutritional adequacy of diets based predominantly on staple foods. However, food fortification and supplementation programs directed to vulnerable groups are necessary and complementary practices to the FBDG implementation.
11515236	The nutritive value of manioc flour (Manihot esculenta) enriched with yeast protein (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) added to a food mixture most frequently consumed by low-income populations was assessed in female Wistar rats (n = 30; 100-120 days old). Animals were divided into three groups, mated and had free access to diets and water. Diets were as follows: beans, rice, yeast-enriched manioc flour (BRYMF17); beans, rice, manioc flour (BRMF13); casein (17% protein) (CAS17). Body weight gains and food consumption were recorded during pregnancy and lactation. At the parturition, the number of pups per litter was recorded and offspring were uniformly distributed (7 pups per litter). Weight gains were determined until weaning (21 days). At weaning two youngs were selected from each litter and individually housed. Weight gains, food consumption and the length of the tail were measured until rats were 70 days old. Rats had their liver and brain removed for protein determination and wet and relative weights. Liver samples were histologically examined. Blood hemoglobin, hematocrit and proteins, as well as the Food Efficiency Ratio (FER), were determined. ANOVA and Tukey's test were used. The experimental diet had not significant effect on pregnant and lactating dams. Values for the investigated parameters were higher in experimental youngs than in their controls and lower than in the standard group. This yeast protein-enriched manioc flour proved to be valid in terms of dietary supplementation.
11515527	Mating experiments between Magnaporthe grisea Japanese rice pathogens and Guy11, a hermaphroditic fertile rice pathogen, were done aimed at identification of avirulence genes. A cross named cross 2107 with thirty-six random progenies was obtained. Segregation analyses of genetic markers found that the cross was less suitable for genetic analysis. Backcrosses with cross 2107 progenies and Guy11 were done and another cross named cross 5307 with sixty-five progenies was obtained. A locus controlling kasugamycin resistance named Ksg1R was identified and used for a model case of genetic mapping. Bulked segregant analysis was done to find adjacent RAPD markers for mapping of the gene. Three adjacent markers to Ksg1R were obtained and a genetic map around the Ksg1R was made, but these markers were not located on a single chromosome. These results suggest that genetic analysis to identify a gene locus is available in cross 5307. Infection assay of parental strains of cross 5307 to Japanese differential rice cultivars suggested the possibility of genetic analysis of cultivar specificity toward four rice cultivars: Aichi-asahi, Kusabue, Tsuyuake, and K59.
11515655	Radioactivity values of 137Cs in printed pages and covers of hardbound books issued during the 1960s in Japan were measured by gamma-ray spectrometry. The result showed that the main source of 137Cs present in the books was rice straw used to make the backing board of covers. The 1965 peak of 137Cs content of the book was explained by the variation of 137Cs content of rice straw with the harvest year and a change of the kind of board.
11515674	Captive callitrichids are prone to developing intestinal problems. Their captive and natural diets differ enormously, and diet has been suggested to play a major role in wasting marmoset syndrome. Proteins in wheat, soy and milk are included in callitrichid diets of most colonies and have been linked to an immune reaction in Saguinus oedipus and Callithrix jacchus. In the present study of 23 males and females of the two species, wheat protein was tested but soy and milk products were excluded. One group had wheat and the other had rice in their diet. Blood samples and biopsies from the colon were taken. Results showed changes in the colon and an immune reaction to gliadin, a wheat protein related to coeliac disease in humans. A further immune reaction was also observed. Suggestions for further study and exclusion of cereal in the diet of these small, New World primates are discussed.
11516635	Tocotrienols exert hypocholesterolemic action in humans and animals. Lovastatin is widely used for that purpose. Both agents work by suppressing the activity of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase through different mechanisms, post-transcriptional vs competitive inhibition. A human study with 28 hypercholesterolemic subjects was carried out in 5 phases of 35 days each, to check the efficacy of tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF(25)) of rice bran alone and in combination with lovastatin. After placing subjects on the American Heart Association (AHA) Step-1 diet (phase II), the subjects were divided into two groups, A and B. The AHA Step-1 diet was continued in combination with other treatments during phases III to V. Group A subjects were given 10 mg lovastatin, 10 mg lovastatin plus 50 mg TRF(25), 10 mg lovastatin plus 50 mg alpha-tocopherol per day, in the third, fourth, and fifth phases, respectively. Group B subjects were treated exactly to the same protocol except that in the third phase, they were given 50 mg TRF(25) instead of lovastatin.The TRF(25) or lovastatin plus AHA Step-1 diet effectively lower serum total cholesterol (14%, 13%) and LDL-cholesterol (18%, 15% P < 0.001), respectively, in hypercholesterolemic subjects. The combination of TRF(25) and lovastatin plus AHA Step-1 diet significantly reduces of these lipid parameters of 20% and 25% (P < 0.001) in these subjects. Substitution of TRF(25) with alpha-tocopherol produces insignificant changes when given with lovastatin. Especially significant is the increase in the HDL/LDL ratio to 46% in group (A) and 53% (P < 0.002) in group (B). These results are consistent with the synergistic effect of these two agents. None of the subjects reported any side-effects throughout the study of 25-weeks. In the present study, the increased effectiveness of low doses of tocotrienols (TRF(25)) as hypocholesterolemic agents might be due to a minimum conversion to alpha-tocopherol. The report also describes in vivo the conversion of gamma-[4-3H]-, and [14C]-desmethyl (d-P(21)-T3) tocotrienols to alpha-tocopherol.
11517602	An efficient and rapid gene transformation system of rice mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens was used. Calli induced from immature and mature embryos of Zhonghua No. 11, a japonic rice variety, were cultured with the A. tumefaciens strain EHA105 harboring the superbinary plasmid pDsBar1300 or pUBITs separately, and more than 400 independent transgenic lines inserted Ds element or Ac fragment were obtained. Some visible mutants in T0 or T1 generation were found, consisting of disease resistance, albino, dwarf, male sterile, chlorosis, early heading, late heading, stripe, etc. From the phenotype analysis, a few mutants such as dwarf and male sterile seemed to be linked to the Basta resistance and the transposon.
11517732	The objective of this study was to determine the nutritional status regarding vitamin A, iron and anthropometric indices and dietary intakes of children aged 2-5 years and their caregivers in a rural South African community. Micronutrient, haematological, anthropometric and dietary indicators were used to assess nutritional status during a cross-sectional survey. The setting was a low socioeconomic rural African community (Ndunakazi), approximately 60 km northwest of the coastal city of Durban in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. The subjects were children aged 2-5 years (n = 164), and their caregivers (n = 137). Of the preschool children, 50% had a low vitamin A status (serum retinol < 20 micrograms/dL), 54% were anaemic (Hb < 11 micrograms/dL), 33% had depleted iron stores (serum ferritin levels < 10 micrograms/L), and 21% were stunted (Z-score for height-for-age < -2SD). Of the caregivers, 30% had a low vitamin A status (serum retinol < 30 micrograms/dL), 44% were anaemic (Hb < 11 micrograms/dL), 19% had depleted iron stores (serum ferritin levels < 12 micrograms/L), and 40% and 26% were overweight (BMI > or = 24 and < 30) and obese (BMI > or = 30), respectively. The children and caregivers consumed a cereal-based diet, with phutu (a stiff porridge made with maize meal), rice and bread as staple foods. Quantitative dietary analysis showed that the dietary intakes were high in carbohydrates (approximately 70% of total energy), while fat intake was within the prudent dietary guideline of 30% of total energy intake. Median dietary intakes were below 50% of the RDA for calcium, zinc (children only), vitamin A, riboflavin, niacin (children only) and vitamin B12. These preschool children and their caregivers consumed a high carbohydrate diet deficient in most of the essential micronutrients. The poor quality of the diet was reflected in a poor vitamin A and iron status, and one-fifth of the children showed linear growth retardation. Nutrition education and intervention programmes should address micronutrient deficiencies, with the focus not only on quantity, but also quality of the diet.
11518328	Six endophytic strains isolated from surface-sterilized rice roots and stems of different rice varieties grown in the Philippines were characterized. They were analyzed by physiological and biochemical tests, SDS-PAGE of whole-cell protein patterns, DNA-DNA hybridization and 16S rDNA sequencing. SDS-PAGE of whole-cell patterns showed that the six isolates fell into two subgroups which were similar but not identical in protein patterns to S. marcescens. The phylogenetic analysis of 16S rDNA sequences of two representative strains IRBG 500 and IRBG 501 indicated that they were closely related to S. marcescens (more than 99% identity). Physiological and biochemical tests corroborated that the isolates were highly related to each other and to S. marcescens. In cluster analysis, all six isolates were clustered together at 93% similarity level and grouped closely with Serratia marcescens at 86% similarity level. DNA-DNA hybridization studies revealed that the isolates shared high similarity levels with S. marcescens (> or =86% DNA-DNA binding), indicating they belong to the same species. However, the isolates differed in several biochemical characteristics from the type strain. They produce urease and utilize urea and L(+) sorbose as a substrate, which is different from all known Serratia reference strains. These results suggest that the six endophytic isolates represent a novel, non-pigmented subgroup of S. marcescens.
11519874	The Oryza officinalis complex is a genetically diverse, tertiary genepool of rice. We analyzed part of the primary structure of the integrase coding domain (ICD) of a gypsy-like retrotransposon from species of the O. officinalis species complex. PCR was performed with degenerate primers that hybridized to conserved sequences in the integrase genes of gypsy-type retrotransposons, using total DNA from different species of the O. officinalis complex as templates. Cloning and sequencing of the PCR products showed that the amplified fragments are highly homologous to each other (75-90%) and belong to one family of retrotransposons that is related to the previously studied RIRE-2 element from rice. Two main subfamilies of 292 and 351 bp were distinguished. Analysis of primary sequence data supports previous reports that sequence divergence during vertical transmission has been the major influence on the evolution of gypsy-type retrotransposons in Oryza species. Based on sequence data phylogenetic relationships among species of the O. officinalis complex were estimated. The data suggests that O. eichingeri is more closely related to the ancestral species of the complex.
11520871	Genetic relations among the contents of Rubisco, soluble protein and total leaf nitrogen (N) in leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.) were studied by quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis with a population of backcross inbred lines (BILs) of japonica Nipponbarexindica Kasalath. The ratio of Rubisco to total leaf N in leaves is the main target in improving photosynthetic N-use efficiency in plants. QTLs controlling Rubisco content were not detected near QTLs for total leaf N content. These results indicate that contents of Rubisco and total leaf N are controlled by different genetics. QTLs that controlled the ratio of Rubisco to total leaf N (CORNs) were detected. These results suggest that some mechanism(s) may be involved in determining this ratio, while the contents of Rubisco and total leaf N are controlled in other ways. In elite BILs, the ratios of Rubisco to total leaf N were higher than those of both parents. These results suggest a good possibility of improving N-use efficiency by CORNs in cultivated rice. A QTL controlling Rubisco content was mapped near a QTL for soluble protein content on chromosome 8 at 5 d after heading and on chromosome 9 at 25 d. In each chromosome region, the peaks of both QTLs overlapped accurately, giving a high possibility of pleiotropic effects by the same genes. Different QTLs controlling soluble protein or Rubisco were detected from those detected at 5 d or 25 d after heading. This suggests that these traits are genetically controlled depending on the growth stages of leaves.
11520872	A pressure chamber and a root pressure probe technique have been used to measure hydraulic conductivities of rice roots (root Lp(r) per m(2) of root surface area). Young plants of two rice (Oryza sativa L.) varieties (an upland variety, cv. Azucena and a lowland variety, cv. IR64) were grown for 31-40 d in 12 h days with 500 micromol m(-2) s(-1) PAR and day/night temperatures of 27 degrees C and 22 degrees C. Root Lp(r) was measured under conditions of steady-state and transient water flow. Different growth conditions (hydroponic and aeroponic culture) did not cause visible differences in root anatomy in either variety. Values of root Lp(r) obtained from hydraulic (hydrostatic) and osmotic water flow were of the order of 10(-8) m s(-1) MPa(-1) and were similar when using the different techniques. In comparison with other herbaceous species, rice roots tended to have a higher hydraulic resistance of the roots per unit root surface area. The data suggest that the low overall hydraulic conductivity of rice roots is caused by the existence of apoplastic barriers in the outer root parts (exodermis and sclerenchymatous (fibre) tissue) and by a strongly developed endodermis rather than by the existence of aerenchyma. According to the composite transport model of the root, the ability to adapt to higher transpirational demands from the shoot should be limited for rice because there were minimal changes in root Lp(r) depending on whether hydrostatic or osmotic forces were acting. It is concluded that this may be one of the reasons why rice suffers from water shortage in the shoot even in flooded fields.
11520884	Twelve alpha and beta 20S proteasome subunits cDNAs showing 70-82% identity with the corresponding genes in Arabidopsis or rice, and features of eukaryotic proteasome subunits were cloned in tobacco. Only beta1-tcI 7, alpha3 and alpha6, 20S proteasome subunits encoding genes were up-regulated by cryptogein, a proteinaceous elicitor of plant defence reactions. These results led to the hypothesis that the activation of beta1-tcI 7, alpha3 and alpha6 could induce a specific proteolysis involved in the hypersensitive response and systemic acquired resistance monitored by cryptogein.
11522393	Mannose-specific lectins are widely distributed in higher plants and are believed to play a role in recognition of high-mannose type glycans of foreign micro-organisms or plant predators. Structural studies have demonstrated that the mannose-binding specificity of lectins is mediated by distinct structural scaffolds. The mannose/glucose-specific legume (e.g., Con A, pea lectin) exhibit the canonical twelve-stranded beta-sandwich structure. In contrast to legume lectins that interact with both mannose and glucose, the monocot mannose-binding lectins (e.g., the Galanthus nivalis agglutinin or GNA from bulbs) react exclusively with mannose and mannose-containing N-glycans. These lectins possess a beta-prism structure. More recently, an increasing number of mannose-specific lectins structurally related to jacalin (e.g., the lectins from the Jerusalem artichoke, banana or rice), which also exhibit a beta-prism organization, were characterized. Jacalin itself was re-defined as a polyspecific lectin which, in addition to galactose, also interacts with mannose and mannose-containing glycans. Finally the B-chain of the type II RIP of iris, which has the same beta-prism structure as all other members of the ricin-B family, interacts specifically with mannose and galactose. This structural diversity associated with the specific recognition of high-mannose type glycans highlights the importance of mannose-specific lectins as recognition molecules in higher plants.
11522739	Because of the beneficial intestinal effects of dietary fibers, we have evaluated the therapeutic effects of green banana or pectin in children with persistent diarrhea. In a double-blind trial, 62 boys, age 5-12 months, were randomly given a rice-based diet containing either 250 g/L of cooked green banana (n = 22) or 4 g/kg pectin (n = 19) or the rice-diet alone (control, n = 21), providing 54 kcal/dL daily for 7 days. Stool weight and consistency, frequency of vomiting and purging, and duration of illness were measured. Most children (60%) had no pathogens isolated from stools, 17% had rotavirus, 5% Vibrio cholerae, 4% Salmonella group B, and 11% had enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli infections. By day 3 posttreatment, significantly (P < 0.001) more children recovered from diarrhea receiving pectin or banana than controls (59%, 55%, and 15%, respectively). By day 4, these proportions correspondingly increased to 82%, 78%, and 23%, respectively, the study diet groups being significantly (P < 0.001) different than controls. Green banana and pectin significantly (P < 0.05) reduced amounts of stool, oral rehydration solution, intravenous fluid, and numbers of vomiting, and diarrheal duration. Green banana and pectin are useful in the dietary management of persistent diarrhea in hospitalized children and may also be useful to treat children at home.
11522903	Heterotrimeric G proteins are mediators that transmit the external signals via receptor molecules to effector molecules. The G proteins consist of three different subunits: alpha, beta, and gamma subunits. The cDNAs or genes for all the alpha, beta, and gamma subunits have been isolated from many plant species, which has contributed to great progress in the study of the structure and function of the G proteins in plants. In addition, rice plants lacking the alpha subunit were generated by the antisense method and a rice mutant, Daikoku d1, was found to have mutation in the alpha-subunit gene. Both plants show abnormal morphology such as dwarfism, dark green leaf, and small round seed. The findings revealed that the G proteins are functional molecules regulating some body plans in plants. There is evidence that the plant G proteins participate at least in signaling of gibberellin at low concentrations. In this review, we summarize the currently known information on the structure of plant heterotrimeric G proteins and discuss the possible functions of the G proteins in plants.
11522913	This study reports the identification and characterization of allyl diphosphatases (EC 3.1.7.1) in plants by using rice seedlings. Two distinct Mg(2+)-independent allyl diphosphatases, which convert farnesyl diphosphate (FDP) and geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGDP) into farnesol and geranylgeraniol, respectively, were induced in rice seedlings irradiated with UV-C. Farnesyl diphosphatase (FDPase) and geranylgeranyl diphosphatase (GGDPase) are located in the microsomal fraction. The relative specific activity of FDPase was much higher than the specific activity of GGDPase. FDPase activity was inhibited by GGDP (50% inhibition at 5 microM) and geranyl diphosphate (50% inhibition at 100 microM). In contrast, GGDPase activity was inhibited 50% by 50 microM isopentenyl diphosphate or 100 microM FDP. The optimal pH for FDPase was 6.3 and for GGDPase was 7.9.
11522916	The mobilization of storage proteins (glutelins) in germinating rice seeds was accompanied by an ordered sequential combination of proteolysis and reduction of disulfide groups. Mobilization was followed by application of non-reducing/reducing two dimensional-PAGE after monobromobimane labeling of the sulfhydryl groups of the proteins in intact seeds.
1152435
1152437
11525066	Wild germplasm of domesticated crops is a source of genetic variation little utilized in breeding programs. Interspecific crosses can potentially uncover novel gene combinations that can be important for quantitative trait analysis. The combined use of wide crosses and genetic maps of chromosomal regions associated with quantitative traits can be used to broaden the genetic basis of rice breeding programs. Oryza glumaepatula is a diploid (AA genome) wild rice species native from South and Central America. A genetic map was constructed with 162 PCR-based markers (155 microsatellite and 7 STS markers) using a backcross population derived from the cross O. glumaepatula, accession RS-16 from the Brazilian Amazon Region x O. sativa BG-90-2, an elite rice inbred line. The map included 47 new SSR markers developed from an O. glumaepatula genomic library enriched for AG/TC sequences. All SSR markers were able to amplify the O. sativa genome, indicating a high degree of SSR flanking region conservation between O. glumaepatula and O. sativa species. The map covered 1500.4 cM, with an average of one marker every 10 cM. Despite some chromosomes being more densely mapped, the overall coverage was similar to other maps developed for rice. The advantage to construct a SSR-based map is to permit the combination of the speed of the PCR reaction, and the codominant nature of the SSR marker, facilitating the QTL analysis and marker assisted selection for rice breeding programs.
11525629	In order to understand the mode of action of the taxonomically related pathogens Xanthomonas campestris pv. translucens, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, which attack wheat and rice crops, we examined the compositional differences of their exopolysaccharides (EPSs). Maximum production of polysaccharide in shake cultures of these pathogens was observed between 24 and 72 h. X. campestris pv. translucens, the leaf streak pathogen of wheat, produced a higher amount of polysaccharide (46.97 microg/ml) at 72 h compared to X. oryzae pv. oryzae (42.02 microg/ml), the bacterial blight pathogen of rice, and X. oryzae pv. oryzicola (41.91 microg/ml), the bacterial leaf streak pathogen of rice. Infrared (FTIR) spectra suggested that the polysaccharides of all three Xanthomonas pathovar strains have an -OH group with intermolecular hydrogen bonding, a C-H group of methyl alkanes, an aldehyde (RCHO) group, a C=C or C=O group, and a C-O group. FTIR spectra also revealed the presence of an acid anhydride group in X. oryzae pv. oryzae, a secondary aromatic or aliphatic amine group in X. campestris pv. translucens, and a primary aromatic or aliphatic amine group in X. oryzae pv. oryzae and X. oryzae pv. oryzicola. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra revealed the presence of unsubstituted sugars, an acetyl amine of hexose or pentose, and a beta-anomeric carbon of hexose or pentose in the polysaccharides of all bacteria. NMR spectra also identified the alpha-anomeric carbon of hexose or pentose in all strains, and a branching at the fourth carbon of the sugar only in X. campestris pv. translucens; the presence of an uronic acid molecule (acid anhydride group) in X. oryzae pv. oryzae; and a deoxy sugar, rhamnose, in X. oryzae pv. oryzicola.
11525758	Photoperiodic induction of flowering in the long-day plant Arabidopsis is mediated by the circadian regulated CONSTANS gene. New evidence suggests that CONSTANS-like genes have a similar role in short-day induction of flowering of rice and Pharbitis.
11525998	Some methane-oxidizing bacteria (methanotrophs) are known to be capable of expressing nitrogenase and utilizing N2 as a nitrogen source. However, no sequences are available for nif genes in these strains, and the known nitrogen-fixing methanotrophs are confined mainly to a few genera. The purpose of this work was to assess the nitrogen-fixing capabilities of a variety of methanotroph strains. nifH gene fragments from four type I methanotrophs and seven type II methanotrophs were PCR amplified and sequenced. Nitrogenase activity was confirmed in selected type I and type II strains by acetylene reduction. Activities ranged from 0.4 to 3.3 nmol/min/mg of protein. Sequence analysis shows that the nifH sequences from the type I and type II strains cluster with nifH sequences from other gamma proteobacteria and alpha proteobacteria, respectively. The translated nifH sequences from three Methylomonas strains show high identity (95 to 99%) to several published translated environmental nifH sequences PCR amplified from rice roots and a freshwater lake. The translated nifH sequences from the type II strains show high identity (94 to 99%) to published translated nifH sequences from a variety of environments, including rice roots, a freshwater lake, an oligotrophic ocean, and forest soil. These results provide evidence for nitrogen fixation in a broad range of methanotrophs and suggest that nitrogen-fixing methanotrophs may be widespread and important in the nitrogen cycling of many environments.
11526021	The diversity of methanotrophic bacteria associated with roots of submerged rice plants was assessed using cultivation-independent techniques. The research focused mainly on the retrieval of pmoA, which encodes the alpha subunit of the particulate methane monooxygenase. A novel methanotroph-specific community-profiling method was established using the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) technique. The T-RFLP profiles clearly revealed a more complex root-associated methanotrophic community than did banding patterns obtained by pmoA-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. The comparison of pmoA-based T-RFLP profiles obtained from rice roots and bulk soil of flooded rice microcosms suggested that there was a substantially higher abundance of type I methanotrophs on rice roots than in the bulk soil. These were affiliated to the genera Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, and to a novel type I methanotroph sublineage. By contrast, type II methanotrophs of the Methylocystis-Methylosinus group could be detected with high relative signal intensity in both soil and root compartments. Phylogenetic treeing analyses and a set of substrate-diagnostic amino acid residues provided evidence that a novel pmoA lineage was detected. This branched distinctly from all currently known methanotrophs. To examine whether the retrieval of pmoA provided a complete view of root-associated methanotroph diversity, we also assessed the diversity detectable by recovery of genes coding for subunits of soluble methane monooxygenase (mmoX) and methanol dehydrogenase (mxaF). In addition, both 16S rRNA and 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) were retrieved using a PCR primer set specific to type I methanotrophs. The overall methanotroph diversity detected by recovery of mmoX, mxaF, and 16S rRNA and 16S rDNA corresponded well to the diversity detectable by retrieval of pmoA.
11527066	We measured peripheral lymphocyte subpopulations after direct moxibustion using moxa cones the size of a half-rice grain. In humans at 2 hrs after the direct moxibustion, NK cell percentage decreased and CD4/CD8 ratio increased significantly. Although the same trends were observed in the control session, those changes were not statistically significant. In rabbits at 3 and 12 hrs after direct moxibustion, CD4/CD8 ratio significantly increased, and recovered at between 24 and 72 hrs after treatment. Similarly, the CD4/CD8 ratio significantly increased in the control session, but they seemed to have a shorter duration. Although it is not yet clear whether the effects are beneficial, we found that direct moxibustion influences the immune system at least transiently.
11527516	To assess and contrast awareness of the link between dietary fibre and folate and their major food sources (fruit, vegetables, bread and cereals). Mailed questionnaire investigating changes made to dietary intake of fibre, folate, fruit, vegetables, bread and cereals in the previous six months. The survey was conducted between June and November 1998 in the Australian Capital Territory. One thousand one hundred and twenty-six adults randomly selected from the electoral roll. More women than men in both older (50+ years) and younger (18-49 years) age groups reported increasing their consumption of folate, fibre, fruit and vegetables in the prior six months. In contrast, more men than women reported increased consumption of bread, cereals, rice and pasta in the previous six months. For food categories and fibre, less than 4% of respondents were unsure about changes in these food habits. However, 26% of men and women were 'not sure' about changes to folate intake. Similar proportions of men and women (about 33%) reported consuming more fruit, vegetables or cereal-based foods over the prior six months, yet only 6% of these men and 14% of these women reported consuming more folate. In contrast, 44% of men and 51% of women who reported consuming more plant foods also reported consuming more dietary fibre. The results suggested that subjects, particularly the younger age group, had a poor understanding of the relationship between folate intake and its major food sources. The understanding of the relationship between fibre intake and its food sources appeared substantial, but confusion about specific food sources was still evident. These outcomes question the effectiveness of nutrition education used to date, particularly for the current priority of increasing folate intake in younger women in the new, 'health claims' environment.
11528486	To assess the relative validity of a semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire (SQFFQ) against 28 day weighed diet records (WDRs). The SQFFQ was administered to 106 (21 male and 85 female) Japanese dietitians in Aichi Prefecture in autumn, 1996 and four-season consecutive 7 day WDRs were carried out during 1996-1997. We evaluated validity of intakes of 15 foods and 31 macro- and micro-nutrients based on the SQFFQ against those according to 28 day WDRs among 79 Japanese female dietitians. Mean daily intakes of selected foods and nutrients determined by the SQFFQ were generally equivalent to those measured by 28 day WDRs. Pearson's de-attenuated correlation coefficients (CCs) with log-transformation and energy-adjustment between intakes of selected foods and nutrients quantified by the SQFFQ and 28 day WDRs (minimum-median-maximum) ranged from 0.17 (beverages)-0.52 to 0.74 (rice), and Spearman's rank CCs with energy-adjustment ranged from 0.28 (confectionery)-0.42 to 0.68 (rice). Respective Pearson's CCs for intakes of nutrients were 0.28 (PUFAs)-0.51 to 0.73 (magnesium), and Spearman's rank CCs ranged from 0.23 (n-3 PUFAs)-0.45 to 0.71 (magnesium). Favorably higher agreement for intakes of foods/nutrients was achieved along with lower disagreement. Satisfactorily higher relative validity was attained in Japanese female dietitians with the SQFFQ. This calibrated questionnaire seems therefore appropriate for administration to Japanese dietitians to clarify associations between diet and health/disease. A grant-in-aid from the Ministry of Education, Science, Sports and Culture (06454242).
11529191	A number of chlorinated derivatives of phenols, catechols, guaiacols, syringaldehydes, have been detected and their concentrations estimated, using gas chromatography in the chlorination (C) and extraction (E) stage of spent bleach liquor generated in the laboratory by bleaching rice-straw soda pulp. The concentration of various compounds detected have also been compared with their reported 96LC50 values.
11529420	13C high-resolution solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) was employed to study carbon materials prepared through the thermal decomposition of four different organic precursors (rice hulls, endocarp of babassu coconut, peat, and PVC). For heat treatment temperatures (HTTs) above about 600 C, all materials presented 13C NMR spectra composed of a unique resonance line associated with carbon atoms in aromatic planes. With increasing HTT a continuous broadening of this resonance and a diamagnetic shift in its central frequency were verified for all samples. The evolution of the magnitude and anisotropy of the magnetic susceptibility of the heat-treated carbon samples with HTT explains well these findings. It is shown that these results are better understood when a comparison is made with the features of the 13C NMR spectrum of polycrystalline graphite, for which the magnetic susceptibility effect is also present and is much more pronounced.
11529505	A series of synthetic hybrid brassinosteroid/ecdysteroid structures has been assessed for their ecdysteroid agonist/antagonist activities in the Drosophila melanogaster B(II) cell bioassay and for brassinosteroid-like activity in the rice lamina inclination test. Most of the compounds proved inactive for ecdysteroid agonist activity, demonstrating the specificity of the ecdysteroid receptor for compounds closely structurally related to 20-hydroxyecdysone. However, compound 18, with 14alpha-hydroxy-7-en-6-one and 22S-hydroxy functionalities (as in most active ecdysteroids), possessed distinct agonist activity (median effective concentration = 1.4 x 10(-5) M), although this is still almost 2000-fold less active than 20-hydroxyecdysone (25). Compounds 13 and 15 possessed weak agonist activity. Compounds 5, 11 and 14 weakly antagonised the action of 20-hydroxyecdysone (at 5 x 10(-8) M) on B(II) cells. In the brassinosteroid bioassay, most of the tested compounds showed activity. This may reflect the metabolic capability of plant tissue to convert test compounds to more active analogues. However, it is clear that biological activity declines as the structure of the test compound deviates further from that of castasterone (16). Three ecdysteroids (25, 26 and 27) are completely inactive in the rice lamina inclination test. These studies demonstrate the high specificities of the insect ecdysteroid receptor and the plant brassinosteroid receptor and indicate that phytoecdysteroids, even in high concentrations, would not interfere with brassinosteroid signalling pathways in plants where the two classes of compounds co-occur. Equally, brassinosteroids would not interfere with ecdysteroid signalling in insects, especially if one takes into account the low concentrations of brassinosteroids in the diet of phytophagous insects.
11529565	Air samples were collected simultaneously at three sites downwind of Lake Ontario and at a control site near Lake Erie from March to July of 1999. The Lake Erie site (Stockton, NY) had PCB concentrations similar to rural Integrated Atmospheric Deposition Network (IADN) sampling sites across the Great Lakes, exhibited limited seasonal variation, and approximates regional background. Samples taken along Lake Ontario's southeastern shore (Rice Creek and Sterling, NY) had elevated PCB concentrations averaging approximately 1 ng/m3 and were more chlorinated than air collected at IADN sites and at Stockton. Air samples from Potsdam (approximately 75 km inland) had similar concentrations but were less chlorinated. Clausius-Clapeyron plots revealed a strong correlation between PCB fugacity and temperature near Lake Ontario; however, the extent of chlorination of the air samples rules out volatilization from the lake as a major source. It is hypothesized that volatilization from local surfaces, enriched in higher chlorinated congeners by meteorological or geographic factors, drives both the concentration and composition of airborne PCBs along Lake Ontario's southeastern shore.
1152993
11530779
11530855	Two Cytoplasmic Male Sterile lines were crossed with fourteen restorer lines of rice widely grown in the western regions of Maharashtra, India, to produce 28 F1 hybrids which were evaluated for eight agronomically important traits, contributing to yield potential, in replicated field trials. The hybrid performance was recorded along with heterosis and heterobeltiosis. All the rice lines under investigation were subjected to marker-based variability analysis. An attempt was made to correlate genetic distance based on specific markers for each trait individually, as well as average genetic distance based on all specific markers, with hybrid performance and heterosis, by regression analysis. Specific markers could cluster the parental lines in different groups and showed significant correlation with hybrid performance. The data also supports the proposition that epistasis is the basis of heterosis. The analysis, however, revealed a lack of significant predictive values for field application.
11532169	A new reverse genetics method has been developed to identify and isolate deletion mutants for targeted plant genes. Deletion mutant libraries are generated using fast neutron bombardment. DNA samples extracted from the deletion libraries are used to screen for deletion mutants by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using specific primers flanking the targeted genes. By adjusting PCR conditions to preferentially amplify the deletion alleles, deletion mutants were identified in pools of DNA samples, each pool containing DNA from 2592 mutant lines. Deletion mutants were obtained for 84% of targeted loci from an Arabidopsis population of 51 840 lines. Using a similar approach, a deletion mutant for a rice gene was identified. Thus we demonstrate that it is possible to apply this method to plant species other than Arabidopsis. As fast neutron mutagenesis is highly efficient, it is practical to develop deletion mutant populations with more complete coverage of the genome than obtained with methods based on insertional mutagenesis. Because fast neutron mutagenesis is applicable to all plant genetic systems, this method has the potential to enable reverse genetics for a wide range of plant species.
11532170	Sorghum is an important target of plant genomics. This cereal has unusual tolerance to adverse environments, a small genome (750 Mbp) relative to most other grasses, a diverse germplasm, and utility for comparative genomics with rice, maize and other grasses. In this study, a modified cDNA selection protocol was developed to aid the discovery and mapping of genes across an integrated genetic and physical map of the sorghum genome. BAC DNA from the sorghum genome map was isolated and covalently bound in arrayed tubes for efficient liquid handling. Amplifiable cDNA sequence tags were isolated by hybridization to individual sorghum BACs, cloned and sequenced. Analysis of a fully sequenced sorghum BAC indicated that about 80% of known or predicted genes were detected in the sequence tags, including multiple tags from different regions of individual genes. Data from cDNA selection using the fully sequenced BAC indicate that the occurrence of mislocated cDNA tags is very low. Analysis of 35 BACs (5.25 Mb) from sorghum linkage group B revealed (and therefore mapped) two sorghum genes and 58 sorghum ESTs. Additionally, 31 cDNA tags that had significant homologies to genes from other species were also isolated. The modified cDNA selection procedure described here will be useful for genome-wide gene discovery and EST mapping in sorghum, and for comparative genomics of sorghum, rice, maize and other grasses.
11532211	A computational system for analysis of the repetitive structure of genomic sequences is described. The method uses suffix trees to organize and search the input sequences; this data structure has been used previously for efficient computation of exact and degenerate repeats. The resulting software tool collects all repeat classes and outputs summary statistics as well as a file containing multiple sequences (multi fasta), that can be used as the target of searches. Its use is demonstrated here on several complete microbial genomes, the entire Arabidopsis thaliana genome, and a large collection of rice bacterial artificial chromosome end sequences. We propose a new clustering method for analysis of the repeat data captured in suffix trees. This method has been incorporated into a system that can find repeats in individual genome sequences or sets of sequences, and that can organize those repeats into classes. It quickly and accurately creates repeat databases from small and large genomes. The associated software (RepeatFinder), should prove helpful in the analysis of repeat structure for both complete and partial genome sequences.
11533907	The present contribution aims at illustrating the methodological problems that may arise from investigating the indirect social costs of alcohol consumption. In order to estimate the alcohol-related productivity losses through excessive morbidity, regression analysis was performed, using data from the 2(nd) Swiss Health Survey (1997). For the purpose of sensitivity analysis two approaches were used (a) Rice and b) Harwood), and all models were calculated with and without smearing-adjustment as well as with and without adjustment for confounding variables. The present study shows that small changes in method may result in major variations in the estimated total costs. In monetary terms, the indirect costs for alcohol consumption in Switzerland through excess-morbidity were estimated at between 0.119 billion Francs (model Harwood, smearing-adjusted) and 2.175 billions Francs (model Rice, adjusted for confounding variables). Since many methodological problems in estimating the indirect costs of alcohol consumption have not been adequately resolved yet, results of those studies have to be interpreted with caution.
11533991	The objective of this article is to assess changes in diet composition, defined in terms of macronutrient intake and types of foods consumed, in pregnancy in poor urban women in Colombia. The subjects were 20 pregnant and 20 matched nonpregnant, nonlactating (NPNL) women 19 to 35 years of age. The pregnant women were studied in three measurement rounds at 14.0 +/- 3.6, 27 +/- 2.2, and 35 +/- 1.7 weeks gestation, and the NPNL women in three measurement rounds approximately 3 months apart. Dietary intake was obtained from estimated food records and macronutrient composition from published sources. Types of foods consumed were aggregated into 16 groups: alcohol; breads; candy; coffee, chocolate; juices; fruit; legumes; meat, fish, offal; dairy; vegetable dishes; other; rice, pasta; tubers, plantains; salads; soft drinks; and soups. Macronutrient intakes showed nonsignificant increases in pregnancy. There were no significant differences between pregnant and NPNL women, except for carbohydrate intake in late pregnancy (P = 0.03). Carbohydrate, fat, and protein provided 74%, 17%, and 12% of dietary energy, respectively, in pregnant women at baseline, and did not change significantly. Except for a decrease in fruits, the types of foods consumed did not change significantly in pregnancy. There were no between-group differences in types of foods consumed except for the greater number of fruits consumed by pregnant women at baseline (P = 0.004). We conclude that in this population there were no changes in diet composition in pregnancy, except for an increase in fruit consumption in Round 1. Am. J. Hum. Biol. 11:753-762, 1999. Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
11534015	This article reports results of a field test of work capacity on 30 male farmers ranging in age from 15-54. It involved a self-paced walk from the valley floor, up the mountain wall, and return, with heart rate monitoring. The route was 2.21 km long with a vertical rise of about 200 m. At its steepest, the grade was about 34 degrees, requiring long runs of steps cut into the mountain face. The purpose of this research was to determine whether biological and behavioral traits of individual men help to explain household economic productivity to which they contribute. The traits included anthropometry and a new measure of self-paced, voluntary work capacity (heart rate x time). Income per productive adult increased as did the relative fitness index (heart rate increase above resting x min taken to finish the course). However, the number of rice bundles earned per family, expected to increase with more fit workers, increased with the number of household adults and sitting height (adjusted R(2) = 0.392), but not with self-paced fitness markers. Am. J. Hum. Biol. 12:192-200, 2000. Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
11534820	The large-scale primary structure of the centromeric region of rice chromosome 5 was analyzed, the first example in a cereal species. The yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) and bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) contigs aligned on the centromere of rice chromosome 5 (CEN5) covered a distance of more than 670 kb. Strong suppression of genetic recombination, one of the features of a functional centromere, occurred along the contig region. The most remarkable feature of CEN5 is the composition of the multiple repetitive elements. Oryza-specific RCS2 short tandem repeats were clustered along less than 100 kb at one end of the contig. At least 15 copies of the conserved domain of the 1.9 kb RCE1 centromeric repeats, which are similar to the long terminal repeats (LTRs) of gypsy-type retrotransposon RIRE7, were dispersed mainly in 320 kb stretches next to RCS2 tandem clusters. Many copies of the LTR-like sequences of RIRE3 and RIRE8, another gypsy-type retrotransposon, were also found throughout the contig. On the other hand, the gagpol region was less conserved in the contig. These results indicate that the rice centromere is composed of multiple repetitive sequences with the RCS2 tandem cluster probably being situated as the core of a functional centromere of some hundreds of kilobases to megabases in length.
11536792
11536867	Gravitropism of oat (Avena sativa L.) and wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) coleoptiles was investigated in relation to the displacement angle or to the initially set stimulation angle (SA). We measured curvature rates at the early phase of curvature, before it was affected by the drop in SA resulting from the curvature response itself. The plot of the rates against the sines of initial SAs revealed similar curves for oats and wheat, which approached saturation as the sine increased to unity. The two species and previously analyzed rice [Iino et al. (1996) Plant Cell Environ. 19: 1160] appeared to have similar gravisensitivities. Initial SAs below and over 90 degrees yielded comparable rates when the sine values were the same, indicating that the extent of gravitropism is determined by the gravity component perpendicular to the organ's long axis. Long-term curvature kinetics at different SAs indicated that the net curvature rate dropped sharply before the tip reached the vertical position and then the tip approached the vertical slowly, with clear oscillatory movements in the case of wheat. During this late curvature phase, the coleoptile straightened gradually, although none of its parts had yet reached the vertical. When rotated on horizontal clinostats or displaced upwards to reduce SA in the late curvature phase, coleoptiles bent in the opposite direction. These results demonstrated that autotropism counteracts gravitropism to straighten coleoptiles.
11537753	Calli were induced either from excised rice embryos or from whole seeds in the presence of 1 to 5 mg l-1 NAA. After 12 days of culture, calli were induced only from excised rice embryos. We found that excised embryos accumulated NAA up to 6 times higher concentration than did whole seeds. In the presence of 1 to 5 mg l-1 NAA and 2 to 10 mg l-1 kinetin, chlorophyllous calli were induced from excised rice embryos. Chlorophyll contents in the callus tissue increased with increasing kinetin concentration while percent callus induction decreased. The total chlorophyll content was linearly correlated with the ratio of kinetin to NAA in the medium.
11538814	The initial test of the Biosphere 2 agricultural system was to provide a nutritionally adequate diet for eight crew members during a two year closure experiment, 1991-1993. The overall results of that trial are presented in this paper. The 2000 m2 cropping area provided about 80 percent of overall nutritional needs during the two years. Adaptation of the crew to the diet which averaged 2200 calories, 73 g. of protein and 32 g. of fat per person over the course of the two years. The diet was primarily vegetarian, with only small amounts of milk, meat and eggs from the system's domestic animals. The crew experienced 10-20 percent weight loss, most of which occurred in the first six months of the closure reflecting adaptation to the diet and lower caloric intake during that period. Since Biosphere 2 is a tightly sealed system, non-toxic methods of pest and disease control were employed and inedible plant material, domestic animal wastes and human waste-water were processed and nutrients returned to the soil. Crop pests and diseases, especially broad mites and rootknot nematode, reduced yields, and forced the use of alternative crops. Outstanding crops included rice, sweet potato, beets, banana, and papaya. The African pygmy goats were the most productive of the domestic animals. Overall, the agriculture and food processing required some 45% of the crew time.
11538817	Environment has significant effects on the nutrient content of field-grown crop plants. Little is known, however, about compositional changes caused by controlled environments in which plants receive only artificial radiation and soilless, hydroponic culture. This knowledge is essential for developing a safe, nutritious diet in a Controlled Ecological Life-Support System (CELSS). Three crops that are candidates for inclusion in a CELSS (rice, wheat, and white potato) were grown both in the field and in controlled environments where the hydroponic nutrient solution, photosynthetic photon flux (PPF), and CO2 level were manipulated to achieve rapid growth rates. Plants were harvested at maturity, separated into discrete parts, and dried prior to analysis. Plant materials were analyzed for proximate composition (protein, fat, ash, and carbohydrate), total nitrogen (N), nitrate, minerals, and amino-acid composition. The effect of environment on nutrient content varied by crop and plant part. Total N and nonprotein N (NPN) contents of plant biomass generally increased under controlled-environment conditions compared to field conditions, especially for leafy plant parts and roots. Nitrate levels were increased in hydroponically-grown vegetative tissues, but nitrate was excluded from grains and tubers. Mineral content changes in plant tissue included increased phosphorus and decreased levels of certain micronutrient elements under controlled-environment conditions. These findings suggest that cultivar selection, genetic manipulation, and environmental control could be important to obtain highly nutritious biomass in a CELSS.
11538970	A large amount of inedible plant material composed primarily of the carbohydrate materials cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin is generated as a result of plant growth in a Controlled Ecological Life-Support System (CELSS). Cellulose is a linear homopolymer of glucose, which when properly processed will yield glucose, a valuable sugar because it can be added directly to human diets. Hemicellulose is a heteropolymer of hexoses and pentoses that can be treated to give a sugar mixture that is potentially a valuable fermentable carbon source. Such fermentations yield desirable supplements to the edible products from hydroponically-grown plants such as rapeseed, soybean, cowpea, or rice. Lignin is a three-dimensionally branched aromatic polymer, composed of phenyl propane units, which is susceptible to bioconversion through the growth of the white rot fungus, Pluerotus ostreatus. Processing conditions, that include both a hot water pretreatment and fungal growth and that lead to the facile conversion of plant polysaccharides to glucose, are presented.
11539033	[3H]Gibberellin A20 (GA20) of high specific radioactivity (49.9 gigabecquerel per millimole) was applied equilaterally in a ring of microdrops to the internodal pulvinus of shoots of 3-week-old gravistimulated and vertical normal maize (Zea mays L.), and to a pleiogravitropic (prostrate) maize mutant, lazy (la). All plants converted the [3H]GA20 to [3H]GA1- and [3H]GA29-like metabolites as well as to several metabolites with the partitioning and chromatographic behavior of glucosyl conjugates of [3H]GA1, [3H]GA29, and [3H]GA8. The tentative identification of these putative [3H]GA glucosyl conjugates was further supported by the release of the free [3H]GA moiety after cleavage with cellulase. Within 12 hours of the [3H]GA20 feed, there was a significantly higher proportion of total radioactivity in lower than in upper halves of internode and leaf sheath pulvini in gravistimulated normal maize. Further, there was a significantly higher proportion of putative free GA metabolites of [3H]GA20, especially [3H]GA1, in the lower halves of normal maize relative to upper halves. The differential localization of the metabolites between upper and lower halves was not apparent in the pleiogravitropic mutant, la. Endogenous GA-like substances were also examined in gravistimulated maize shoots. Forty-eight hours after gravistimulation of 3-week-old maize seedlings, endogenous free GA-like substances in upper and lower leaf sheath and internode pulvini halves were extracted, chromatographed, and bioassayed using the "Tanginbozu" dwarf rice microdrop assay. Lower halves contained consistently higher total levels of GA-like activity. The qualitative elution profile of GA-like substances differed consistently, upper halves containing principally a GA20-like substance and lower halves containing principally a GA20-like substance and lower halves containing mainly GA1-like and GA19-like substances. Gibberellins A1 (10 nanograms per gram) and A20 (5 nanograms per gram) were identified from these lower leaf sheath pulvini by capillary gas chromatography-selected ion monitoring. Results from all of these experiments are consistent with a role for GAs in the differential shoot growth that follows gravitropism, although the results do not eliminate the possibility that the redistribution of GAs results from the gravitropic response.
11539324	Gravitropism of maize and rice coleoptiles was investigated with respect to its dependence on the angle of displacement or the initial stimulation angle (ISA). Close examination of curvature kinetics and the response to a drop in stimulation angle (SA) indicated that the gravtropic response during an early but substantial part of the curvature development is directly related to the ISA, there being no effect of the reduction of SA resulting from the curvature response itself. On the basis of this finding, the relationship between the steady SA and the curvature rate was determined. In maize, the curvature rate increased linearly with the sines of SAs up to an SA of 90 degrees. Rice coleoptiles, however, showed a saturation curve in the same range of SAs. The saturation profile was nearly identical between coleoptiles grown in air and those submerged in water, although the latter elongated much faster. Rice coleoptiles appeared to be far more sensitive to gravity than maize coleoptiles. It is concluded that the sensitivity to gravity, assessed through dependence on ISA, is a property inherent to a given gravitropic organ. Long-term measurements of curvature indicated that the coleoptiles bend back past the vertical. This overshooting was marked in submerged rice coleoptiles.
11539362	Silicon has been considered to be important for normal growth and development of the rice plant (Oryza sativa L.). To investigate the physiological function of deposited silica in rice leaves, the hypothesis that silica bodies in the leaf epidermal system might act as a 'window' to facilitate the transmission of light to photosynthetic mesophyll tissue was tested. The silica content of leaves increased with supplied silicon and was closely correlated with the number of silica bodies per unit leaf area in the epidermal system. There was a significant difference in silica deposition and formation of silica bodies between Si-treated and non-treated leaves; silicon was polymerized inside the silica cells and bulliform cells of the epidermis, in Si-treated leaves. Although the 'windows' were only formed in leaves with applied silicon, optical properties of leaf transmittance, reflectance and absorptance spectra in Si-treated and non-treated leaves were almost equal. Furthermore, light energy use efficiency and quantum yield of Si-treated leaves were less than in leaves not containing silica bodies. Thus, silica bodies, at least based on the data, do not function as windows in rice leaves.
11539443	The gauche-trans isomerization reaction of 1,2-dichloroethane at the liquid-vapor interface of water is studied using molecular-dynamics computer simulations. The solvent bulk and surface effects on the torsional potential of mean force and on barrier recrossing dynamics are computed. The isomerization reaction involves a large change in the electric dipole moment, and as a result the trans/gauche ratio is considerably affected by the transition from the bulk solvent to the surface. Reactive flux correlation function calculations of the reaction rate reveal that deviation from the transition-state theory due to barrier recrossing is greater at the surface than in the bulk water. This suggests that the system exhibits non-Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus behavior due to the weak solvent-solute coupling at the water liquid-vapor interface.
11539650	Caryopses and isolated embryos from Rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Tobacco seeds (Nicotiana tabacum L. variety Xanthi) were studied in the Biobloc III container aboard the Soviet orbital space station SALYUT 7. The recovery from radiation damage under conditions of space flight was observed for rice caryopsis and embryos gamma irradiated (Co 60, 50 grays) prior to launch. There was a large decrease in the percentage of germinating seeds from the Tobacco strain tested when the seeds were exposed to heavy ions. Among the germinating plantlets there were few morphological anomalies. Furthermore, there was a significant greater amount of genetic change in those samples held in grids as compared to those in bags.
11539861	Using an isogenic line of rice having lazy gene (la), we studied the correlation between the agravitropic response at the young seedling stage and the lazy habit (prostrate growth of tillers) at the more advanced stage of growth. In this study, it was found that both agravitropism and lazy habit were controlled by the single recessive la gene. That is, F2 segregants of Kamenoo x lazy-Kamenoo, which had an agravitropic response at their young seedling stage, showed a lazy habit of growth in the more advanced stage of vegetative growth. On the other hand, seedlings that showed normal gravitropic curvature at their early stage of growth had an upright growth in the mature stage.
11539903	Dry seeds of rice and green pepper were carried in the basket of a high altitude balloon to 30-40 km for 8 h. The treated seeds were planted on the ground and characters of these seeds and their progenies, such as development, fruiting, disease resistance were observed. The results showed that the SP2 generation of the treated rice showed strong mutation. A Japonica male fertility restorer rice line was found out. It could be hybridized with sterile line of Indica rice, and their progeny had strong hybrid vigor, high setting percentage and good plumpness of grain. Disease resistance, high-yield, big-fruit and high vitamin C content strains were selected from the progenies of treated green pepper seeds. The above results indicated that the special conditions in high altitude could produce a variety of mutations and most of them are hereditable. Therefore, high altitude balloon flight can be used as a new method of mutation breeding.
11539942	In long duration space experiments Rice caryopses and embryos, which are able to remain alive 10 years (or more) and tolerate extreme physical conditions (temperature, few water content) during irradiation and post-irradiation storage, were used (8, 40, 201 and 457 days on board of Salyut 7, 2107 days on LDEF). In certain experiments (Salyut 7), samples were irradiated either before or after the flight. Effects of the flight and radiosensitivity were observed in Rice seedlings cultivated in in vitro conditions. Statistical results indicate an increase in radiosensitivity when irradiations occur before the flight. Microanalyses were made in different parts of one caryopsis and of one embryo, and the results compared with those of control samples. With caryopses and embryos of the same Rice varieties, but from LDEF, we made the same kinds of experiments to compare results.
11539953	Three french laboratories have participated in the Free Flyer Biostack experiment. Artemia cysts, tobacco seeds and rice caryopsis and embryos were used. Biological objects in monolayers were dead. In opposite, a large fraction of samples used in bulk survived. A stimulatory effect occurred in the first steps of development in Artemia cysts. In fact, the larval survival was unchanged or slightly reduced. In tobacco a drastic decrease in germination and survival rate was observed. Space flight did not induce genetic changes. In rice, results depend on the variety which was investigated; the growth rate stimulation in flight samples is discussed with respect to controls.
11539972	Genetic and developmental effects of heavy ions in maize and rice were investigated. Heavy particles with various charges and energies were accelerated at the BEVALAC. The frequency of occurrence of white-yellow stripes on leaves of plants developed from irradiated maize seeds increased linearly with dose, and high-LET heavy charged particles, e.g., neon, argon, and iron, were 2-12 times as effective as gamma rays in inducing this type of mutation. The effectiveness of high-LET heavy ion in (1) inhibiting rice seedling growth, (2) reducing plant fertility, (3) inducing chromosome aberration and micronuclei in root tip cells and pollen mother cells of the first generation plants developed from exposed seeds, and (4) inducing mutation in the second generation, were greater than that of low-LET gamma rays. All effects observed were dose-dependent; however, there appeared to be an optimal range of doses for inducing certain types of mutation, for example, for argon ions (400 MeV/u) at 90-100 Gy, several valuable mutant lines with favorable characters, such as semidwarf, early maturity and high yield ability, were obtained. Experimental results suggest that the potential application of heavy ions in crop improvement is promising. RFLP analysis of two semidwarf mutants induced by argon particles revealed that large DNA alterations might be involved in these mutants.
11539989	Rice caryopsis of Cigalon variety with short grain of the LDEF mission can develop and grow as well as those of the laboratory control. Rice caryopsis of Delta variety with long grain did not develop while a small number of excised embryos can develop and grow as well as the control group. A preliminary study of the Electron Spin Resonance (ESR) spectra of Rice embryos and seeds recorded several month after the flight on flight samples and on control ones has been carried out. All these samples had the same storage time. During storage the radical concentration which usually decreases, now depends on irradiation doses and on whether or not they were delivered in presence of oxygen. The signal variations are smaller than those usually observed in the different parts of the starch. An estimation of a "gamma-equivalent-dose" can be reached.
11540188	In order to determine a required plant cultivation area which can sustain human life in a closed environment, the material circulating measurement system including a Closed-type Plant Cultivation Equipment (CPCE) in which the metabolic data of plants can be accurately measured has been constructed. According to results from cultivation experiments using rice, the harvest index was 29.9% for 110 days, and the required crop area to supply food, oxygen and water for one person was calculated to be about 111m2, 36m2 and 0.9m2, respectively.
11540191	The effects of elevated CO2 on plant growth are reviewed and the implications for crop yields in regenerative systems are discussed. There is considerable theoretical and experimental evidence indicating that the beneficial effects of CO2 are saturated at about 0.12% CO2 in air. However, CO2 can easily rise above 1% of the total gas in a closed system, and we have thus studied continuous exposure to CO2 levels as high as 2%. Elevating CO2 from 340 to 1200 micromoles mol-1 can increase the seed yield of wheat and rice by 30 to 40%; unfortunately, further CO2 elevation to 2500 micromoles mol-1 (0.25%) has consistently reduced yield by 25% compared to plants grown at 1200 micromoles mol-1; fortunately, there was only an additional 10% decrease in yield as the CO2 level was further elevated to 2% (20,000 micromoles mol-1). Yield increases in both rice and wheat were primarily the result of increased number of heads per m2, with minor effects on seed number per head and seed size. Yield increases were greatest in the highest photosynthetic photon flux. We used photosynthetic gas exchange to analyze CO2 effects on radiation interception, canopy quantum yield, and canopy carbon use efficiency. We were surprised to find that radiation interception during early growth was not improved by elevated CO2. As expected, CO2 increased quantum yield, but there was also a small increase in carbon use efficiency. Super-optimal CO2 levels did not reduce vegetative growth, but decreased seed set and thus yield. The reduced seed set is not visually apparent until final yield is measured. The physiological mechanism underlying CO2 toxicity is not yet known, but elevated CO2 levels (0.1 to 1% CO2) increase ethylene synthesis in some plants and ethylene is a potent inhibitor of seed set in wheat.
11540306	Edible yield must be maximized for each crop species selected for inclusion in the Controlled Ecological Life-Support System (CELSS) proposed by NASA to support long-term manned space missions. In a greenhouse study aimed at increasing biomass partitioning to rice (Oryza sativa L.) grain, plants of the high yielding semi-dwarf rice cultivar Ai-Nan-Tsao were started in pots under 8-h photoperiods at a density of 212 plants m-2. After different periods of time under 8-h photoperiods, pots were switched to continuous light for the remainder of the cropping cycle. Continuous light did not delay time to first panicle emergence (60 d) or time to harvest (83 d). There was a positive correlation between the length of continuous light treatments and nongrain biomass. Grain yield (1.6 +/- 0.2 g plant-1) did not increase in continuous light. Yield-efficiency rate (grain weight per length of cropping cycle, canopy volume, and weight of nongrain shoot biomass) was used to compare treatments. Small Ai-Nan-Tsao rice canopies grown under 8-h photoperiods were more efficient producers of grain than canopies grown under continuous light for a portion of the rice cropping cycle.
11540722	Primary roots of six plant species were placed horizontally either in humid air or under water, and their growth and gravitropic responses were examined. In air, all the roots showed a normal gravitropic curvature. Under water without aeration, roots of rice (Oryza sativa L.), oat (Avena sativa L.), azuki bean (Vigna angularis Ohwi et Ohashi), and cress (Lepidium sativum L.) curved downward at almost same rate as in air, whereas the curvature of roots of maize (Zea mays L.) and pea (Pisum sativum L.) was strongly suppressed. Submergence did not cause a decrease in growth rate of these roots. When roots of maize and pea were placed horizontally under water without aeration and then rotated in three dimensions on a clinostat in air, they showed a significant curvature, suggesting that the step suppressed by submergence is not graviperception but the subsequent signal transmission or differential growth process. Constant bubbling of air through the water partly restored the gravitropic curvature of maize roots and completely restored that of pea roots. The curvature of pea roots was also partly restored by the addition of an inhibitor of ethylene biosynthesis, aminooxyacetic acid. In air, ethylene suppressed the gravitropic curvature of roots of maize and pea. Furthermore, the level of ethylene in the intercellular space of the roots was increased by submergence. These results suggest that the accumulation of ethylene in the tissue is at least partly involved in suppression of transmission of the gravity signal or of differential growth in maize and pea roots under conditions of submergence.
11541059	The roots of rice seedlings, growing in artificial pond water, exhibit robust gravitropic curvature when placed perpendicular to the vector of gravity. To determine whether the statolith theory (in which intracellular sedimenting particles are responsible for gravity sensing) or the gravitational pressure theory (in which the entire protoplast acts as the gravity sensor) best accounts for gravity sensing in rice roots, we changed the physical properties of the external medium with impermeant solutes and examined the effect on gravitropism. As the density of the external medium is increased, the rate of gravitropic curvature decreases. The decrease in the rate of gravicurvature cannot be attributed to an inhibition of growth, since rice roots grown in 100 Osm/m3 (0.248 MPa) solutions of different densities all support the same root growth rate but inhibit gravicurvature increasingly with increasing density. By contrast, the sedimentation rate of amyloplasts in the columella cells is unaffected by the external density. These results are consistent with the gravitational pressure theory of gravity sensing, but cannot be explained by the statolith theory.
11541060	It is generally thought that sedimenting plastids are responsible for gravity sensing in higher plants. We directly tested the model generated by the current statolith hypothesis that the gravity sensing that leads to gravitropism results from an interaction between the plastids and actin microfilaments. We find that the primary roots of rice, corn, and cress undergo normal gravitropism and growth even when exposed to cytochalasin D, a disruptor of actin microfilaments. These results indicate that an interaction between amyloplasts and the actin cytoskeleton is not critical for gravity sensing in higher plants and weaken the current statolith hypothesis.
11541096	Harvest indices, which are measures of the ratio of edible to total plant weight, are redefined to include edible sugars derived from enzymatic hydrolysis of the cellulose content of inedible plant components. Compositional analysis and carbohydrate contents of rapeseed, rice, soybeans, cowpea, wheat, sweet potato, white potato, and lettuce were analyzed to develop such generalized harvest indices. Cellulose conversion is shown to extend considerably the food available from plants otherwise grown for their oil and protein content in a bioregenerative life support system.
11541262	Rice seeds were carried into space by the recoverable satellite. After recovery the seeds were sowed on the earth so as to observe the character performance and genetic variation of their later generations. The preliminary results showed that the main characters of the SP1 generation didn't show significant difference from the control. Among the individual plants of the SP2 generation strong broad-spectrum segregation appeared in the 9 main agronomic characters. Mutation frequency is 4.66%. The individual plants of the SP3 generation were obviously correlated with the SP4 generation in the average character values of the 5 main characters. Stable plant strains were obtained in the SP4 generation. The SP5 and SP6 generations were put into control and polt tests. As a conclusion, it may be considered that certain variations of rice seeds induced by the space conditions are heritable to the offsprings, therefore, it can be used as a new method for mutagenic seed breeding.
11541585	To obtain the basic data of gas exchange of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare), rates of ethylene release, photosynthesis and transpiration of the rice plant were measured by using a closed-type chamber. Each rate increased until the heading stage and thereafter decreased. Ethylene release rate (E) gradually increased with day after seeding and rates of photosynthesis (P) and transpiration (T) did exponentially. At the heading stage, E, P and T were maximum and had values of about 2.0 mmol plant-1 h-1, 3.0 mmol plant-1 h-1 and 0.60 mol plant-1 h-1, respectively. E in the light period was 1.5-3 times as much as that in the dark period, whereas T in the light period was 5-6 times as much as that in the dark period. E of rice per plant was lower than those of lettuce and Brassica genera which were reported previously. Especially, the rate of rice was about one-tenth that of lettuce. However, when ethylene release rates were estimated on a growth area basis, the rate of rice was about half that of lettuce, and was more than those of Brassica genera.
11541647	At the 40th IAF Congress in Malaga, a nutrition system for a lunar base CELSS was presented. A lunar base with a total of eight crew members was envisaged. In this paper, four species of plants--rice, soybean, lettuce and strawberry--were introduced to the system. These plants were sufficient to satisfy fundamental nutritional needs of the crew members. The supply of nutrition from plants and the human nutritional requirements could almost be balanced. Our study revealed that the necessary plant cultivation area per crew member would be nearly 40 m3 in the lunar base. The sources of nutrition considered in the study were energy, sugar, fat, amino acids, inorganic salt and vitamins; however, calcium, vitamin B2, vitamin A and sodium were found to be lacking. Therefore, a subsystem to supply these elements is of considerable value. In this paper, we report on a study for breeding snails and utilizing meat as food. Nutrients supplied from snails are shown to compensate for the above mentioned lacking elements. We evaluate the snail breeder and the associated food supply system as a subsystem of closed ecological life support system.
11541649	Caryopses of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Sasanishiki) were germinated in air or under water. In submerged seedlings a twofold increase in coleoptile growth rate and an inhibition of root growth was observed. The amount of starch in the amyloplasts of submerged coleoptiles was substantially reduced compared to the air-grown control plants and plastids had a proplastidic character. During the rapid elongation of coleoptiles under water, the osmotic concentration of the press sap remained constant, whereas in air-grown coleoptiles a decrease was measured. Determination of curvature of gravistimulated air-grown and submerged shoots was carried out by placing the coleoptiles horizontally in air of 98% relative humidity. Air-grown coleoptiles reached a vertical orientation within 5 h after onset of gravistimulation. In coleoptiles germinated under water the first signs of consistent negative gravitropic bending occurred after 4-5 h and curvature was complete after 24 h. During the first 5 h of gravistimulation the water-grown coleoptiles grew at an average rate of 0.39 mm h-1, whereas in air-grown coleoptiles a rate of 0.27 mm h-1 was measured. Concomitant with the delayed onset of gravitropic bending of the water-grown coleoptiles, a change in plastid ultrastructure and an increase in starch content was observed. We conclude that the gravitropic responsiveness of the rice coleoptile depends on the presence of starch-filled amyloplasts.
11541849	Seedlings of rice, maize, cress, pea, and azuki bean were grown on a three-dimensional clinostat and changes in their vegetative growth processes were analyzed. A balanced relationship among the length or the weight of each organ was observed in these species even on the clinostat. Growth of pea second internodes is supported by the transport of sugars from the cotyledons, which was not influenced by the clinostat rotation. Thus, growth correlation and the translocation of sugars normally occurred even under simulated microgravity conditions. In contrast, morphogenesis was clearly changed by the clinostat rotation. The axiality along the gravity vector disappeared and so seedlings formed themselves into a sphere-like shape on the clinostat. The dorsiventrality was indistinct in growth of maize coleoptiles on the surface of the earth, but the clinostat rotation induced a clear dorsinventral bending. These changes in morphogenesis may influence the long-term growth phenomena and modify the life cycle of higher plants under a microgravity environment.
11541891	There is a growing concern about the sustainability of our humanosphere. Realizing that our consumption of natural resources is soon to exhaust available ones in this globe, we feel the need for more prudent ways to utilize them. In particular, the need would be greater in the ways for the use of the primary products as we are to continue to face the rapid increase in human population. On the contrary, however, we are rapidly losing the traditional customs of their many uses. For instance, rice straws were once a significant raw material for many manufactured products in Japan, while most of them are now simply burned in the paddy. Here I would like to review the current status of primary production on the Earth from the viewpoint of material cycling and to demonstrate that, unless we quickly turn around our ever-increasing demand for more material and more energy, the humanosphere would never enter a stable phase. At the year 2006 A.D., the energy demand of a possibly sustainable humanosphere surpasses the available energy through the global primary production.
11542245	Extrusion processing was proposed to provide texture and to expand the variety of cereal food products in an isolated Advanced Life Support (ALS) system. Rice, wheat, and soy are the baseline crops selected for growing during long-term manned space missions. A Brabender single-screw laboratory extruder (model 2003, L/D 20:1), equipped with round nozzles of various lengths, was used as a prototype of a small-size extruder. Several concepts were tested to extend the variety and improve the quality of the products, to decrease environmental loads, and to promote processing stability. These concepts include: the blending of wheat and soybean flour, the extrusion of a coarser rice flour, separation of wheat bran, and optimization of the extruder nozzle design. An optimal nozzle length has been established for the extrusion of rice flour. Bran separating was necessary to improve the quality of wheat extrudates.
11542292	Biosphere 2's finite natural resources: atmosphere, plants, water, and soil, and its unique increased rate of nutrient cycling, mandated a design for the agriculture that emphasized sustainability and high productivity. The results of the initial 2-year test of the agriculture system showed that it could provide a diet that was both nutritionally adequate and pleasing to the palate of the eight-member crew from September 1991 to September 1993. The agriculture design was developed from 1985 to 1991 at the Space Biospheres research greenhouses with consulting from the Institute of Ecotechnics (London) from its experiments in New Mexico, Australia, and France and the Environmental Research Laboratory (University of Arizona). During the 2-year mission this research was continued with the close collaboration of outside scientific consultants, particularly in the area of soil management and integrated pest management. The 2000-m2 cropping area provided approximately 81% of the overall nutritional needs of the crew. Initial results showed light to be the main limiting factor and the additional electric light was added after the first 2-year mission to increase the productivity for future experiments. The diet was primarily vegetarian supplemented with daily amounts of milk, and weekly meals of meat and eggs from the system's domestic goats, pigs, and chickens. Nontoxic methods of pest and disease control were used. The main pest problems were broad mite and root knot nematode. Inedible plant material, domestic animal wastes, and human waste water were successfully processed for nutrient return to the soil. Eighty-six varieties of crops were grown in Biosphere 2. Major staple crops included rice, sweet potato, beets, banana, and papaya. The African pygmy goats were the most productive of the domestic animals producing on average 1.14 kg of milk per day. The diet averaged 2200 calories, 73 g of protein, and 32 g of fat per person per day over the 2 years. The crew had a 10-20% weight loss, mostly occurring in the first 6 months of closure, after which weights stabilized with some increase in the second year. Agriculture field management took 25% of crew time, animal care required an additional 9% and food preparation accounted for 12% of crew labor.
11542385	The day-neutral, semidwarf rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar Ai-Nan-Tsao was grown in a greenhouse under summer conditions using high-pressure sodium lamps to extend the natural photoperiod. After allowing 2 weeks for germination, stand establishment, and thinning to a consistent planting density of 212 plants/m2, stands were maintained under continuous lighting for 35 or 49 days before shifting to 8- or 12-h photoperiods until harvest 76 days after planting. Non-shifted control treatments consisting of 8-, 12-, or 24-h photoperiods also were maintained throughout production. Tiller number increased as duration of exposure to continuous light increased before shifting to shorter photoperiods. However, shoot harvest index and yield efficiency rate were lower for all plants receiving continuous light than for those under the 8- or 12-h photoperiods. Stands receiving 12-h photoperiods throughout production had the highest grain yield per plant and equaled the 8-h-photoperiod control plants for the lowest tiller number per plant. As long as stands were exposed to continuous light, tiller formation continued. Shifting to shorter photoperiods late in the cropping cycle resulted in newly formed tillers that were either sterile or unable to mature grain before harvest. Late-forming tillers also suppressed yield of grain in early-forming tillers, presumably by competing for photosynthate or for remobilized assimilate during senescence. Stands receiving 12-h photoperiods throughout production not only produced the highest grain yield at harvest but had the highest shoot harvest index, which is important for resource-recovery strategies in advanced life-support systems proposed for space.
11542662	The rice mutant Yin-Yang has been selected during a screen for resistance to cytoskeletal drugs and is characterized by alterations in epidermal cell length and a precocious onset of gravitropism. The elongation response of coleoptile segments to auxin does not reveal changes of auxin sensitivity in Yin-Yang. However, in contrast to the wild type, cell elongation in Yin-Yang is highly sensitive to the actin-polymerisation blocker cytochalasin D. This increased sensitivity to cytochalasin D requires optimal concentrations of auxin to become manifest. The auxin response of actin microfilaments in epidermal cells differs between wild type and mutant. In the wild type, the longitudinal microfilament bundles become loosened in response to auxin. In the mutant, these bundles disintegrate partially and are replaced by a network of short filaments surrounding the nucleus. Several aspects of the mutant phenotype can be mimicked in the wild type by treatment with cytochalasin D. The mutant phenotype is discussed in terms of signal-dependent changes of actin dynamics and the putative role of actin during cell elongation.
11542731	We have examined the localization of the cells containing sedimented amyloplasts (putative statocytes) and its relation to the graviresponding sites in the shoots of normal and lazy rice seedlings. All graviresponsive organs of the shoots of normal rice seedlings, the mesocotyl, the coleoptile and the leaf-sheath base, were found to possess the statocytes. This is the first indication that mesocotyl senses gravity by its own cells in inducing gravitropic bending in rice seedlings. In lazy-Kamenoo, although the shoots lost their gravitropic response with the advance of age, sedimentation of amyloplasts itself might not be attributable to the agravitropic growth of the shoots, because, including those of the leaf-sheath bases that had lost their response to gravity, sedimented amyloplasts appeared to be identical to those of normal Kamenoo and of younger seedlings of lazy-Kamenoo whose gravitropism is still apparent.
11542802	Since a biological filter with nitrifying bacteria was firstly applied to aquatic animal experiments in IML-2 mission, the reactor system has been further studied to combine both nitrifying and denitrifying reactions under aerobic environment allowing an efficient removal of inorganic nitrogen from animal wastes. The isolated denitrifying bacteria had an activity under aerobic condition with rice straw providing a metabolic carbon source for the reaction. The advantage of the aerobic biological filter having both nitrifying and denitrifying activities may allow to reduce the size of the life support system and also for its manageability. The paper reports characteristics of the biological filter systems used for the IML-2 mission and the improved combined filter system having both nitrifying and denitrifying activities, and discuss its application to space experiments.
11543176	Seedlings of rice (Oryza saliva L.) and Arabidopsis (A. thaliana L.) were cultivated for 68.5 hr in the RICE experiment on board during Space Shuttle STS 95 mission, and changes in their growth and morphology were analyzed. Microgravity in space stimulated elongation growth of both rice coleoptiles and Arabidopsis hypocotyls by making their cell walls extensible. In space, rice coleoptiles showed an inclination toward the caryopsis in the basal region and also a spontaneous curvature in the same direction in the elongating region. These inclinations and curvatures were more prominent in the Koshihikari cultivar compared to a dwarf cultivar, Tan-ginbozu. Rice roots elongated in various directions including into the air on orbit, but two thirds of the roots formed a constant angle with the axis of the caryopsis. In space, Arabidopsis hypocotyls also elongated in a variety of directions and about 10% of the hypocotyls grew into the agar medium. No clear curvatures were observed in the elongating region of Arabidopsis hypocotyls. Such a morphology of both types of seedlings was fundamentally similar to that observed on a 3 D clinostat. Thus, it was confirmed by the RICE experiment that rice and Arabidopsis seedlings perform an automorphogenesis under not only simulated but also true microgravity conditions.
11543192	We have compared shoot responses of agravitropic rice and barley plants to vertical inversion with those of normal ones. When rice plants were vertically inverted, the main stems of a japonica type of rice, cv. Kamenoo, showed negative gravitropism at nodes 2-15 of both elongated and non-elongated internodes. However, shoots of lazy line of rice, lazy-Kamenoo, bent gravitropically at nodes 11-15 only elongated internodes but not at nodes 2-10 of non-elongated ones. Thus, shoots of Kamenoo responded gravitropically at all stages of growth, whereas shoots of lazy-Kamenoo did not show gravitropic response before heading. In Kamenoo plants, lengths of both leaf-sheath and leaf-blade were shortened by vertical inversion, but those of the vertically inverted plants of lazy-Kamenoo were significantly longer than the plants in an upright position. When agravitropic and normal plants of barley were vertically inverted, the same results as in rice were obtained; elongation of both leaf-sheath and leaf-blade was inhibited in normal barley plants, Chikurin-Ibaragi No. 1, but significantly stimulated in agravitropic plants of serpentina barley. These results suggest that vertical inversion of rice and barley plants enhances the elongation growth of leaves in the absence of tropistic response.
11543424	During Space Shuttle STS-95 mission, we cultivated seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Koshihikari and cv. Tan-ginbozu) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana L. cv. Columbia and cv. etr1-1) for 68.5, 91.5, and 136 hr on board, and then analyzed changes in the nature of their cell walls, growth, and morphogenesis under microgravity conditions. In space, elongation growth of both rice coleoptiles and Arabidopsis hypocotyls was stimulated. Also, the increase in the cell wall extensibility, especially that in the irreversible extensibility, was observed for such materials. The analyses of the amounts, the structure, and the physicochemical properties of the cell wall constituents indicated that the decreases in levels and molecular masses of cell wall polysaccharides were induced under microgravity conditions, which appeared to contribute to the increase in the wall extensibility. The activity of certain wall enzymes responsible for the metabolic turnover of the wall polysaccharides was increased in space. By the space flight, we also confirmed the occurrence of automorphogenesis of both seedlings under microgravity conditions; rice coleoptiles showed an adaxial bending, whereas Arabidopsis hypocotyls elongated in random directions. Furthermore, it was shown that spontaneous curvatures of rice coleoptiles in space were brought about uneven modifications of cell wall properties between the convex and the concave sides.
11543556	The food system, being designed for the BIO-Plex (Bioregenerative Planetary Life Support Systems Test Complex), will be a plant-based diet that requires most of the food to be grown, processed, and prepared in the BIO-Plex. Conversion of crops to edible foods will require extensive food processing within the closed environment of this habitat. Because all consumables in the BIO-Plex will be recycled and reused, food safety is a primary concern. Multifunctional equipment necessary for food processing of the baseline crops (wheat, soybeans, rice, peanuts, dried beans, potatoes, sweet potatoes, lettuce, chard, tomatoes, green onions, carrots, and radishes) was identified. Recommendations for placement of the food processing equipment in the Interconnecting Transfer Tunnel (ITT) of the BIO-Plex were made to facilitate the processing flow diagrams, increase work efficiency, and prevent cross-contamination of pathogens and antinutrients. Sanitation equipment and procedures necessary during food processing in the ITT are described.
11543557	The Advanced Life Support (ALS) program at NASA-Johnson Space Center was initiated for use in long-duration space missions. With weight and volume restrictions and prolonged periods between resupply from Earth, as much as 90% of the energy requirements must come from food grown, processed, and prepared in space. ALS involves the use of hydroponically grown crops to supply and regenerate air and food for the crew. A 10-day cycle menu has been developed consisting of items prepared from the baseline crop list: potato, sweet potato, brown rice, wheat, peanut, soybean, lettuce, tomato, carrot, chard, radish, spinach, green onion, and dry beans (pinto and lentil). Of the recipes created for the menu, resupply items contributed only 4.54% by weight and 9.18% of the total calories. The menu has been analyzed to conform to the baseline crop list and nutrient recommendations for long-duration space missions.
11545414	Employing high-resolution two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE), we studied changes in the rice leaf protein patterns, in response to applied heavy and alkaline metals, important environmental pollutants in our surroundings. Drastic changes in 2-DE protein patterns after treatment with copper, cadmium, and mercury, over control were found, including changes in the morphology of the leaf segments. Changes in the major leaf photosynthetic protein, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO, both suppression and fragmentation), and induction of proteins are reported. A total of 33 proteins, which were highly reproducible in repeated experiments, were visually identified as changed over the control, and taken for N-terminal or internal amino acid sequencing. Among these, nine proteins were N-terminally blocked, and six proteins could not be sequenced. Most of the proteins showed homology to RuBisCO protein, and some to defense/stress-related proteins, like the pathogenesis related class 5 protein (OsPR5), the probenazole-inducible protein (referred to as the OsPR10), superoxide dismutase, and the oxygen evolving protein. Results presented here strongly indicate a highly specific action of some of these metals in disturbing the photosynthetic machinery, as evidenced by prominent reductions/fragmentation of the major photosynthetic protein, RuBisCO, and resulting in stress.
1154651
11548308	The Republic of Kazakhstan is situated in the northern hemisphere on the boundary of two continents--Europe and Asia--at a longitude of 45 degrees E--87 degrees E and a latitude of 40 degrees N--55 degrees N. The total area of the republic is 2,724,900 square kilometers. Kazakhstan shares a border with the Russian Federation to the north-west, north and east: the border between the two countries is almost 6500 km long. To the south, Kazakhstan shares a border with the Central Asian states of Turkmenistan (380 km), Uzbekistan (2300 km) and Kyrgystan (980 km). To the south-east, it shares a border with China (1460 km): to the west is the Caspian Sea (600 km). Thus, the total length of Kazakhstan's external borders is 12,000 km. Because of the geographical, natural and climatic features prevailing throughout most of the Republic, there is a potential danger that local transmission of malaria may begin again if the disease is imported from abroad. The areas most at risk are the Panfilov and Uigur raions of Almaty oblast, which share a border with malaria-endemic regions of China, and the Saryagash and Makhtaral' raions of South Kazakhstan oblast along the border with Uzbekistan. The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan places particular emphasis on malaria prevention and control, taking into account the historical data about the prevalence of malaria from the late 1920s to the early 1940s, amounting to hundreds of thousands of cases every year. Government Decree No. 840 entitled "Urgent Measures to Protect the Population from Blood-Sucking Insects and Ticks Dangerous to Humans", which lays down measures for the control of malarial mosquitoes in the areas most susceptible to malaria resurgence, was adopted in 1996. The Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan issued instructions in 1998 and 1999 which were designed to motivate all health facilities in the field of malaria prevention and control. At present, as part of the directives developed by the Republican Health Epidemiology Posts, work is being done on the planning of malaria control measures in Kazakhstan for the period 2001-2003. In 1994 a programme of epidemiological malaria surveillance was introduced, which has enabled us to improve our monitoring of the epidemiological situation of malaria. The number of cases of imported malaria has declined: in 1997, there were 102 cases, in 1998-87 and in 1999-52. There have been occasional local cases in some years, and in 1998 there were four local cases in the south and north-west of the country: two cases in Almaty oblast, one case in Zhambyl oblast and one in West Kazakhstan oblast (see Fig. 1). Most malaria infections are imported from Tajikistan and Azerbaijan, with occasional cases from Pakistan, India, Turkey and Afghanistan. Analysis of the occupational status of patients shows that around 45% are military personnel who have served on the Tajik-Afghan border. The others are refugees, merchants, unemployed people or students. The overall aetiological structure of malaria cases is dominated by P. vivax malaria. For example, in 1999, there were 48 cases of P. vivax malaria (90.5% of the total), one case of tropical malaria (1.9%), two cases of quartan malaria (3.8%) and two cases of P. vivax + P. malariae (3.8%). In order to prevent indigenous malaria occurring within the country, a system of malaria screening has been set up; screening is carried out every year on groups who have visited neighbouring or more distant malaria-endemic countries and for patients with a persistent fever who are suspected of suffering from malaria. The area of water throughout the country within communities or within a 3-5 km radius of them which is susceptible to colonization by the Anopheles mosquito amounts to over 5000 hectares, according to the certification system in force. In addition, approximately 70,000 hectares in three oblasts used for rice cultivation also provide a habitat for Anopheles. The main malaria vector, An. messeae, is found throughout the country: in a few areas An. hyrcanus and An. claviger are found and, in the south, An. pulcherrimus. Data from recent years show the presence of An. superpictus, An. plumbeus and An. algeriensis. In 1999, from data collected during systematic observations of the phenology and seasonal variations in the number of Anopheles at 114 observation posts, the average seasonal numerical indicators for the mosquito imago reached a maximum of between 21 and 46.5 adult mosquitoes per cattle shed, up to 2.7-3.3 adult mosquitoes per residential building and 30-67.3 larvae per square metre of surface water. According to the results of large scale trapping programmes (486 communities were screened in 1999), the maximum value of the numerical indicator was 16.8-74.1 adult mosquitoes per cattle shed and 4.1-3.8 adult mosquitoes per residential building. In 1999, compared with 1998, the number of malarial mosquitoes detected throughout the country declined encouragingly, or stayed at the same level, which is one of the factors responsible for the country's favourable epidemiological situation with regard to malaria. According to data going back many years, there has been a significant increase in the number of mosquitoes at some observation posts in Almaty, East Kazakhstan and Kyzlorda oblasts. There is a tendency everywhere for the numbers of imagos detected in residential buildings to increase, which presents a definite epidemiological risk that indigenous malaria will re-emerge if the disease is imported into Kazakhstan from countries which suffer from it. If we consider the species of mosquito present in the country and the temperature factor (the number of days in the year when the average daily temperature is over 16 degrees C), the country can be divided, on the basis of incomplete 1999 data, into zones at very high risk of re-emergence of malaria (Almaty, Zhambyl and South Kazakhstan oblasts), high risk (Karaganda oblasts and Almaty city), medium risk (Aktyubinsk and Akmolinsk oblasts), and low risk (Kostanay oblast). The malaria risk of the other oblasts has been calculated using data from earlier years (map attached) [Translator's Note: map missing]. Preventive malaria control measures in Kazakhstan are divided into three categories to suit three different groups of communities. One hundred and seventy-nine communities have been allocated to the first group, at high risk of malaria resurgence; 1377 communities to the second group, at medium risk; and the remainder to the third group, at little or no risk of malaria resurgence. The following factors were used to categorize communities according to the risk that malaria might become reestablished if the disease should be imported from elsewhere: species of malarial mosquito present; changes in mosquito numbers and in the area of water susceptible to population by Anopheles; temperature conditions and, consequently, the length of the malaria transmission season and the season of effective susceptibility of the mosquito to infection; population migration; quality of laboratory testing for the diagnosis of malaria. Measures aimed at the destruction of mosquitoes are intended to reduce the numbers of Anopheles in the communities most at risk of malaria resurgence, i.e. those in group 1 above and the actual foci of malaria infection. Because of the economic crisis and financial difficulties, fewer areas have been treated in recent years. In 1999, 1387 hectares of water and 450,000 square metres of buildings were treated (see Fig. 2). Measures to control biting flies in health establishments, recreation areas, etc. Certainly also help to protect people from malarial mosquitoes. In 1999, 12,501 hectares of water and land were treated from the ground or the air (see Fig. 3). In the present situation, the main reasons for the difficulties affecting the malaria control and prevention campaign are as follows. Staff numbers in the Republic's parasitology service have been unjustifiably reduced. For example, the number of entomologists and entomology assistants employed is 58% and 48%, respectively, of the number laid down in Ministry of Health directives. At the health epidemiology posts, the number of disinfectors has been reduced to a minimum, and practically all engineer/water engineer posts have been abolished. The country does not possess the necessary education base for initial training or continuing education of staff for the parasitology service. The lack of basic scientific information about the problems of malaria control and prevention and parasitology in general. There is no research to test or introduce the most effective, safe and low-cost malaria control products and insecticides. The methodological literature required to use certain modern insecticides is not available. Entomologists are not provided with specialist insect control equipment. Entomological surveys are left incomplete because of shortages of transport and fuel at the health epidemiology posts. Because of the economic crisis and the high cost of the radical water engineering measures necessary to combat malaria, these measures cannot be implemented on the scale required. The equipment and materials stocks of the parasitology laboratories are highly inadequate: there is a lack of modern laboratory equipment, as well as a lack of opportunities for high-level professional training for staff. The exchange of information between the CIS countries is unsatisfactory, and there is no common information space: nor is there any systematic data available from other foreign countries. In the period 2000-2003, Kazakhstan plans to carry out malaria control activities (mosquito destruction) over an area of 2000 hectares of water and 1.5 million square metres of buildings.
11548310	Kyzgyzstan is situated in an area which is potentially at risk for malaria. In 1995-1999, 58 cases of malaria were recorded, six of them were local cases. The factors that promote the spread of malaria in Kyrgyzstan are the widespread and constant migration of people from Tajikistan and close economic ties between Kyrgyzstan and a number of Asian countries with widespread malaria epidemics. Most cases of malaria in Kyrgyzstan were imported from Tajikistan (39 cases or 75% of all imported cases). Plasmodium vivax, P. falciparum and P. malariae were identified in 95.9, 1.7, and 2.1%, respectively. There is a widespread irrigation network in the country, along with a large number of reservoirs, ponds, lakes, springs, streams, gullies, and marshy floodplains. As of 1 January 2000, there are 2833 water areas that can support Anopheles mosquitoes, with a total area of 5008.5 ha. The total length of the sewerage and drainage system is 5,440 km. There is a great potential for the spread of malaria in the south of the republic, i.e. the Osh and Zhalalabad Regions, especially due to a large number of state rice (paddy) fields covering an area of over 3,500 ha. Small rice-growing plots close to private dwellings, which are cultivated without any mosquito control measures, currently provide further breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Almost 80% of the population of these areas is at risk for malaria. Almost all species of malaria mosquitoes have been identified in Kyrgyzstan. An. claviger and An. messeae have too, two other species have also spread through the country, these are An. martinius and An. superpictus which became the main vectors of malaria epidemics in the south in the 1930s-1950s. Large-scale development of the pre-imago stages of the mosquito (a larval, water-based stage) takes place 5-7 months within which 4-6 mosquito generations develop. At present, there is a shortage of staff in Kyrgyzstan, especially at a local level, who has thorough knowledge of malaria and experience with its control and who can define the highest priorities and the most appropriate and effective within the Global Malaria Control Strategy at the current stage. Laboratory services are in need of considerable support: stocks of essential supplies for laboratory tests are almost exhausted, there is a shortage of essential equipment, the staff is not well enough trained. There is an acute shortage of insecticides and larvicides for mosquito control. Entomologists have no sufficient insect control equipment to treat water areas (e.g. sprayers), there is no equipment for monitoring water areas or introducing larvicidal fishlaria (Gambusiae) either, and local monitoring is hampered by shortages of vehicles, fuel, and lubricants. Since malaria control is an urgent problem, Kyrgyzstan has developed a comprehensive and integrated malaria programme for 2000-2004 and a plan of actions to study malaria vector resistance to insecticides in the Republic of Kyrgyzstan in 2000.
11548313	Malaria was once one of the most common diseases in Uzbekistan. There were massive epidemics with high mortality rates, wherein 140,000 to 700,000 cases of malaria were recorded. Following large-scale malaria control measures, the disease was eradicated in Uzbekistan in 1961 and the epidemiological situation is still favorable. The natural and climatic conditions that prevail in the Republic of Uzbekistan mean that the country is very susceptible to malaria. There are large water areas varying in type and origin, which provide a habitat for a number of epidemiologically dangerous species of malaria-transmitting mosquitoes in a single area. These are Anopheles maculipennis, An. pulcherrimus and An. superpictus. The prevailing temperatures promote rapid growth of vector mosquitoes and parasites and the malaria transmission season is over 5 months long. Seven malaria-transmitting mosquito species have been recently recorded in the Republic. DDT resistance has been so far noted in Anopheles maculipennis, An. hyrcanus and An. bifurcatus. An. superpictus is sensitive to all insecticides used in clinical practice (organophosphorus and organochlorine compounds, HOS, carbamates, pyrethroids). The most dangerous areas for transmitting malaria by importation are the flood plains of the country's main rivers, such as Syrdarya, Amudarya, Chirchik, Surkhana, etc., and rice-growing areas (an area of about 150,000 ha was under rice cultivation in 1999). The Republic is still very subjected to large-scale importations of malaria particularly in the towns and areas along the border with Tajikistan. There has been recently an increase in the incidence of infections imported into the Republic: 27 cases in 1995, 51 in 1996, 52 in 1997, 74 in 1998, and 78 in 1999. Eight regions of Uzbekistan border Tajikistan, their population is over 5.6 million people. In addition, close family ties between the populations of the frontier towns and regions further increase the risk for malaria to be imported and passed on. Noteworthy is the Surkhandaryin region that accounted for 60% of the cases recorded in 1999. The number of towns and villages where malaria occurs for the first time increased (49 and 46 cases in 1999 and 1998, respectively). The number of cases imported into rural areas also increased (70 (83%) cases in 1999 versus 48 (65%) cases in 1998); due to the large populations of malaria mosquitoes, there is a real danger that the disease may spread. In 1999, most cases of malaria were imported from Tajikistan (65 cases or 76% of all cases). There was a case from each of the following countries: Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Kazakhstan and 5 cases from Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan. The recorded cases included slighly more men than women (54% vs 46%). There were 10 infected children under 14 years, which was 23.5% of all notified cases. Analyzing various populations showed that 67.1% of the patients visited their relatives in malaria-endemic countries (mostly Tajikistan) and 25.8% migrated from Tajikistan. All the detected cases were confirmed by laboratory tests. As in the past, most cases were tertian (P. vivax) malaria (n = 82 or 96.4% of all cases). Tropical (P. falciparum) malaria was confirmed in 3 (3.5%) cases. These cases had been imported from Tajikistan into the Surkhandaryin region. Seventy seven (91%) cases were detected in the epidemical season. Of them 58 (68.2%) cases were detected during a malaria transmission season. Seven cases who contacted the patients with imported malaria and were infected were recorded in 1999. They included 4 and 3 cases in the Surkhandaryin and Kashkadaryin Regions, respectively. In 1999, there was a decline in the number of malaria patients who needed health care and in the diagnosed malaria cases in therapeutical and prophylactic institutions. Throughout the country, 34 (40%) of the 85 detected cases presented within 3 days of malaria outbreak (68.9% in 1998). Malaria was immediate diagnosed in 43.5% of cases (64.9% in 1998). The remaining cases were diagnosed as having acute respiratory viral infections, tropical and parasitic diseases, viral hepatitis, or influenza. Early diagnosis of malaria was made in 60% of cases (77% in 1998). Three cases of imported tertian malaria were recorded in the Tashkent Region in the first quarter of 2000. They were imported from Tajikistan into rural areas and the patients had been infected during the 1999 season. Epidemiological surveillance of malaria in Uzbekistan is regularly carried out by the general network of health facilities and by the departments of parasitology of state epidemiological surveillance centers in collaboration with medical administrative departments, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, the L.M. Isayev Research Institute of Medical Parasitology, and other agencies. Active links are maintained with WHO under the Roll Back Malaria programme. Great emphasis is laid on medical staff training at all levels. During the 1999 epidemiological survey, 672,536 laboratory tests were performed on blood samples from suspected malaria patients and individuals who had visited malaria-endemic countries, 55% of them suffering from fever. A total area of 17 million m2 of dwelling and nondwelling buildings 20 ha of water areas were treated against mosquitoes and the larvivorous fish Gambusia was put into the water areas occupying 6,500 ha. In all cases of malaria, the focus of infection was epidemiologically surveyed and required epidemic preventive measures were implemented. All malaria patients received a full course of radical therapy and recovered completely. The epidemiological surveillance system for malaria is affected by staff shortages at the parasitology departments of state epidemiological surveillance centers and by shortages of microscopes, reagents, sterilizing equipment, insecticides, etc. There are still difficulties in obtaining supplies of primaquine although a small stock is locally available as due to WHO humanitarian assistance. The Epidemiological Malaria Surveillance Programme for the Republic of Uzbekistan for 2000-2004, intended to strengthen the epidemic control capacity of health care facilities, Ministry of Health, is under adoption. The following activities are scheduled for 2000: to plan malaria control activities, including the zoning of the country by the risk of malaria transmission in accordance with republic-leveled directives, instructions, and methodology and WHO recommendations: adjustments to these plans to be made as necessary; to fill vacant posts in the parasitology departments of state epidemiological surveillance centers; to procure stocks of antimalarial drugs, reagents, insecticides, sterilizing equipment, etc., to be paid for from epidemiological service resources; to include malaria issues into certifying tests for physicians, as appropriate for the posts to be occupied and their level of qualifications; to publish posters, brochures, and leaflets about malaria prevention before the malaria transmission season for health education; to hold seminars and meetings for health workers on the etiology of malaria, its clinical features, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.
11549016	A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique was developed for detecting the presence of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the bacterial leaf blight (BLB) pathogen in rice seed and for studying the transmission of this bacterium from seed to plant. Primers TXT and TXT4R from an insertion sequence (IS1113) of the pathogen were used to amplify a 964-bp DNA fragment. A combined biological and enzymatic amplification (BIO-PCR) technique was used to detect the pathogen in naturally infected seed. The level of detection of TXT and TXT4R primers was 55 fg DNA of X. o. pv. oryzae, which is roughly the equivalent of seven cells (and four cells in pure culture suspension) of X. o. pv. oryzae. Hybridization of IS1113 with the amplified DNA fragment in Southern blot analysis confirmed that the 964-bp DNA fragment was amplified from X. o. pv. oryzae. The presence of the IS1113 element in strains of X. o. pv. oryzae from 16 rice-growing countries was confirmed by DNA dot blot analysis. X. o. pv. oryzae was detected from the seed washes and DNA extracted from the seed washes of naturally infected seeds of cvs Jaya and TN1. When stored at 4 degrees C, the pathogen was recovered up to 4 months and 9 months from naturally infected seeds of cvs Jaya and TN1, respectively. The BLB bacterium was also detected in seedlings, mature plants and seeds collected from plants raised from naturally infected seeds.
11549766	In Arabidopsis, proanthocyanidins specifically accumulate in the endothelium during early seed development. At least three TRANSPARENT TESTA (TT) genes, TT2, TT8, and TTG1, are necessary for the normal expression of several flavonoid structural genes in immature seed, such as DIHYDROFLAVONOL-4-REDUCTASE and BANYULS (BAN). TT8 and TTG1 were characterized recently and found to code for a basic helix-loop-helix domain transcription factor and a WD-repeat-containing protein, respectively. Here the molecular cloning of the TT2 gene was achieved by T-DNA tagging. TT2 encoded an R2R3 MYB domain protein with high similarity to the rice OsMYB3 protein and the maize COLORLESS1 factor. A TT2-green fluorescent protein fusion protein was located mostly in the nucleus, in agreement with the regulatory function of the native TT2 protein. TT2 expression was restricted to the seed during early embryogenesis, consistent with BAN expression and the proanthocyanidin deposition profile. Finally, in gain-of-function experiments, TT2 was able to induce ectopic expression of BAN in young seedlings and roots in the presence of a functional TT8 protein. Therefore, our results strongly suggest that stringent spatial and temporal BAN expression, and thus proanthocyanidin accumulation, are determined at least partially by TT2.
1154992	Body growth using weight and length parameters have been examined following the introduction of the rice rat to laboratory conditions and a history of breeding covering some 15 generations. The pattern of growth shows a characteristic enphasic form which appears to be determined by the interplay of the external environment and the genetic endowment. The external environmental factors include the waxing and waning of the lactational performance of the mother and the intake of solid food, resulting in the first phase being mainly controlled by the maternal environment, the second phase being mainly controlled by a lessening maternal environment + external (solid food) environment + some genetics, the third phase being influenced by external environment + genetic endowment.
11550902	Simple sequence length polymorphism analysis was carried out to reveal microsatellite variation and to clarify the phylogenetic relationships among A-genome species of rice. Total DNA from 29 cultivars (23 Oryza sativa and 6 O. glaberrima) and 30 accessions of wild A-genome species (12 O. rufipogon, 5 O. glumaepatula, 2 O. longistaminata, 6 O. meridionalis, and 5 O. barthii) was used as a template for PCR to detect 24 nuclear and 10 chloroplast microsatellite loci. Microsatellite allelic diversity was examined based on amplified banding patterns. Microsatellites amplified clearly in all 59 accessions, with an average of 18.4 alleles per locus. The polymorphism information content (PIC) value ranged from 0.85 to 0.94, with an average of 0.89. At the species level, high average PIC values were observed in O. sativa (0.79) and O. rufipogon (0.80). For chloroplast microsatellites, the average number of alleles per locus and the average PIC value were 2.9 and 0.38, respectively. While the magnitude of diversity was much greater for nuclear microsatellites than for chloroplast microsatellites, they showed parallel patterns of differentiation for each taxonomic group. Using the ratio of common alleles (estimated as size of amplified fragments) as a similarity index, the average percentages of common microsatellite alleles were calculated between taxa. For both nuclear and chloroplast microsatellites, O. sativa showed the highest similarity values to O. rufipogon, and O. glaberrima was most similar to O. barthii. These data support previous evidence that these cultivars originated from the corresponding wild ancestral species.
11551550	Myrothecium verrucaria was found to be an effective pathogen against kudzu grown in the greenhouse and the field. M. verrucaria produced large amounts of macrocyclic trichothecenes when cultured on solid rice medium, including epiroridin E (16.8 mg/g crude extract), epiisororidin E (1 mg/g), roridin E (8.7 mg/g), roridin H (31.3 mg/g), trichoverrin A (0.6 mg/g), trichoverrin B (0.1 mg/g), verrucarin A (37.4 mg/g), and verrucarin J (2.2 mg/g). Most of these toxins were also isolated from M. verrucaria spores and mycelia grown on potato dextrose agar medium, including epiroridin E (32.3 mg/g), epiisororidin E (28.6 mg/g), roridin E (0 mg/g), roridin H (60 mg/g), trichoverrin A (1.3 mg/g), trichoverrin B (1.8 mg/g), verrucarin A (13.8 mg/g), and verrucarin J (131 mg/g). When M. verrucaria was cultured on liquid media, the numbers but not the amounts of toxins decreased. Only epiroridin E (28.3 mg/g), epiisororidin E (29.6 mg/g), verrucarin B (195 mg/g) and verrucarin J (52.6 mg/g) were measured when the fungus was cultured on cornsteep medium. On soyflour-cornmeal broth M. verrucaria produced several toxins, including epiroridin E (58.1 mg/g), epiisororidin E (5.8 mg/g), verrucarin B (29.9 mg/g) and verrucarin J (32 mg/g). In contrast, no macrocyclic trichothecenes were detected by HPLC analysis of plant tissues of kudzu, sicklepod, and soybean treated with aqueous suspensions of M. verrucaria spores formulated with a surfactant. Chloroform-methanol extracts of kudzu leaves and stems treated with M. verrucaria spores were less cytotoxic to four cultured mammalian cell lines than the corresponding extracts from control plants. Purified macrocyclic trichothecenes (verrucarin A and T-2 toxin) were very cytotoxic to the same cell lines (< or = 2 ng/ml). These results show that neither intact macrocyclic trichothecenes nor toxic metabolites could be detected in plant tissues after treatment with M. verrucaria spores. These results argue for both safety and efficacy for the use of M. verrucaria in biological control of kudzu and other noxious weeds, and support proceeding to animal feeding trials for further evaluation of safety.
11551555	Three chlamydocin analogues that show activity for reducing the height of rice seedlings without blotch and wilting were isolated from the culture filtrate of the soil fungus Peniophora sp. and were characterized by spectral data and chemical conversion. For two of these, it is their first isolation as natural products. The proposed role of the functional groups of the 2-amino-8-oxodecanoic acid moiety of these analogues is discussed in terms of growth retardant activity.
11551562	26-Norbrassinolide, identified as a metabolite of brassinolide in cultured cells of the liverwort, Marchantia polymorpha, as well as 26-norcastasterone and 26-nor-6-deoxocastasterone were synthesized. Synthesis of these new brassinosteroids was conducted by employing the orthoester Claisen rearrangement and asymmetric dihydroxylation as key reactions. The modified rice lamina inclination test indicated that these three 26-norbrassinosteroids were less active than their corresponding C28 brassinosteroids. Growth-promoting activities were also examined by using the brassinosteroid-deficient, dwarf mutant lkb of garden pea (Pisum sativum L.). In this assay, 26-norbrassinolide was as effective as brassinolide and 26-norcastasterone was more effective than castasterone although 26-nor-6-deoxocastasterone was much less effective than 6-deoxocastasterone. Therefore, removal of C-26 of brassinosteroids does not necessarily reduce the biological activity. The role of C-26 removal in Marchantia cells remains unclear.
11552329	The authors report on the nutritional status (weight for age, height for age, weight for height and arm circumference) of 1324 children, aged 7 to 14 years, in rural Guinea-Bissau, 1992. Three percent of the children (4% in males and 2% in females) had a Z score of weight for height? -2 and 8% (9% in boys and 7% in females) had a Z score of height for age < -2. The highest prevalence of stunting was observed amongst the Mancanha ethnic group and in those residing in the rice growing areas. Wasting was most prevalent amongst the local ethnic minorities and in the interior.
11552692	Rice Blast Disease, caused by the fungus Pyricularia oryzae, is one of the most important diseases of rice. Several enzymes in the melanin biosynthetic pathway have proven to be valuable targets for development of rice blast fungicides. In particular, inhibitors of trihydroxynaphthalene reductase (3HNR), which catalyzes the conversion of trihydroxynaphthalene to vermelone, have yielded commercially useful rice fungicides. The X-ray structure of 3HNR has been published recently, presenting an opportunity to use this information in the de novo design of novel 3HNR inhibitors that may exhibit useful rice blast activity. We used the LeapFrog program to develop a docking model for interaction of ligands with the active site of THNR. The final model gave a good correlation between calculated binding energy and log Ki and was used to design novel ligands and score compounds for synthesis. Using this as a tool, we synthesized inhibitors in the nanomolar range and also developed several inhibitors that did not conform to the properties of the THNR active site. Leapfrog was able to locate a previously unrecognized binding pocket that could accommodate these otherwise anomalous regions of structure.
11553759	Lodging-resistant rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars usually show slow grain filling when nitrogen is applied in large amounts. This study investigated the possibility that a hormonal change may mediate the effect of water deficit that enhances whole plant senescence and speeds up grain filling. Two rice cultivars showing high lodging resistance and slow grain filling were field grown and applied with either normal or high amount nitrogen (HN) at heading. Well-watered and water-stressed (WS) treatments were imposed 9 days post anthesis to maturity. Results showed that WS increased partitioning of fixed (14)CO(2) into grains, accelerated the grain filling rate but shortened the grain filling period, whereas the HN did the opposite way. Cytokinin (zeatin + zeatin riboside) and indole-3-acetic acid contents in the grains transiently increased at early filling stage and WS treatments hastened their declines at the late grain filling stage. Gibberellins (GAs; GA(1) + GA(4)) in the grains were also high at early grain filling but HN enhanced, whereas WS substantially reduced, its accumulation. Opposite to GAs, abscisic acid (ABA) in the grains was low at early grain filling but WS remarkably enhanced its accumulation. The peak values of ABA were significantly correlated with the maximum grain filling rates (r = 0.92**, P < 0.01) and the partitioning of fixed (14)C into grains (r = 0.95**, P < 0.01). Exogenously applied ABA on pot-grown HN rice showed similar results as those by WS. Results suggest that an altered hormonal balance in rice grains by water stress during grain filling, especially a decrease in GAs and an increase in ABA, enhances the remobilization of prestored carbon to the grains and accelerates the grain filling rate.
11554066	To clarify the incidence of food allergy in atopic dermatitis, non-selected 226 cases with atopic dermatitis visited in our hospital were evaluated by oral food challenge tests based on masked food allergy. 181 of 200 cases except 26 cases dropped out showed a positive reaction to at least one challenge test, after their skin manifestations had been relieved by environmental control and elimination diets. In conclusion, the incidence of food allergy in atopic dermatitis was 90.5%, and egg allergy, cow's milk allergy, soy bean allergy, wheat allergy, rice allergy were 83.5%, 51.5%, 33.5%, 20.0%, 2.5% respectively in 200 cases.
11554347	Rice seed storage glutelin could be separated into three acidic (alpha-) and three basic (beta-) subunit components by SDS-PAGE using 15%-25% gradient acrylamide gel. More than 13 acidic and 14 basic bands may be distinguished with an improved iso-electric focus electrophoresis system by adjusting Ampholine ratios. Combine these two sensitive electrophoresis systems resulting in two-dimensional electrophoresis giving high resolution of glutelin leading the yield of single polypeptide. The improved electrophoresis system is helpful in identifying rice glutelin variation and for further studies of glutelin biochemistry.
11554348	Genetic divergences of 57 entries from 6 ecotypes of rice were surveyed by PCR analysis with 48 pairs of SSR and by Southern analysis by 50 RFLP probes. It was indicated that SSR markers detected polymorphism efficiently in comparison to RFLP markers, considering the allele numbers per locus and average gene diversity. Among all of 1,596 pairs, 1,452 pairs of genetic distances based on SSR data (GDSSR) were higher than the genetic distance based on RFLP data (GDRFLP) by average of 0.2492. The average GDSSR of entries within indica subspecies was 0.5483, but GDRFLP was only 0.2776. And the GDSSR and GDRFLP of entries with japonica subspecies were 0.577, 0.2405 respectively. The average GDSSR between varieties of interspecies was 0.8074, and the average GDRFLP was 0.7310. It is suggested that the GDSSR between varieties of introspecies or interspecies are higher than that of GDRFLP. The analysis of correlation between GDSSR and GDRFLP of any entry with other 56 entries indicated that the correlation coefficient for typical Indica or Japonica varieties were higher, but lower for Indica-like or Japonica-like materials. It was also found that the relationships between genetic distance based on these two kinds of markers and the yield of hybrid performance were not significant, but most of the correlation coefficient between heterosis and GDRFLP or GDSSR arrived at highly significant level.
11554349	A genetic map including 120 RFLP markers covering 1418.2 cM has been constructed using a BC1 population derived from a cross between common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) from Dongxiang, Jiangxi Province, China, and an elite Indica variety Guichao 2. The linkage orders and genetic distances of markers in this map are consistent with the map constructed by Rice Genome Program of Japan except the markers of short arm of Chromosome 1. The QTLs analysis of anther length and ratio of stigma exsertion, two key traits of classification for cultivated rice and common wild rice indicated that there are two QTLs controlling anther length located at the region of C424-G39 of Chromosome 2, and C2807-C1263 of Chromosome 9 respectively. It was also found that there are two QTLs controlling ratio of stigma exsertion, and located at the region of C2289-R1553 of Chromosome 5 and G1149-R1963 of Chromosome 8 respectively. The detected QTLs affecting the key traits of classification for wild rice and cultivated rice will be useful for study of molecular evolution mechanism of cultivated rice.
11554350	The genetic mechanism underlying panicle number per plant (PN), spikelet number per panicle (SNP) and its related traits in rice was analysed using 292 F13 RILs from the cross of Lemont/Teqing and a complete linkage map with 272 molecular markers. The RILs showed tremendous transgressive segregation for all traits studied. The weak negative correlation between PN and SNP was observed. Fifty-one QTLs and 45 epistatic QTL pairs affecting these traits were identified, collectively explaining over 60% of the total variation of individual traits. Almost all SNP-QTLs were attributable to one or more of its contributing components. Branching number traits had greater contributions to SNP than length traits, in which the first had twice as many QTLs mapped in the same or near regions with SNP as the latter. Only two PN-QTLs were mapped in the near regions with those of related traits of SNP, suggesting a reasonable recombination between PN and SNP would be available by marker-assisted selection (MAS). Some major QTLs including QPn4 for panicle number, QPbn3a, QPbn3b and QPbl4 for panicle branching and length would be of great value in MAS. It was discussed that a new high-yielding panicle type was resulted from reasonably deploying for QTLs of panicle traits by MAS.
11554468	While there is an ever-increasing amount of information regarding cellulose synthase catalytic subunits (CesA) and their role in the formation of the cell wall, the remainder of the enzymes that synthesize structural cell wall polysaccharides are unknown. The completion of the Arabidopsis genome and the wealth of the sequence information from other plant genome projects provide a rich resource for determining the identity of these enzymes. Arabidopsis contains six families of genes related to cellulose synthase, the cellulose synthase-like (Csl) genes. Our laboratory is taking a multidisciplinary approach to determine the function of the Csl genes, incorporating genomic, genetic and biochemical data. Information from expressed sequence tag (EST) projects has revealed the presence of Csl genes in all plant species with a significant number of ESTs. Certain Csl families appear to be missing from some species. For example, no examples of CslG ESTs have been found in rice or maize. Microarray data and reporter constructs are being used to determine the expression pattern of the CesA and Csl genes in Arabidopsis. Mutations and insertion events have been identified in a majority of the genes in the Arabidopsis CesA superfamily and are being characterized by phenotypic and biochemical analysis. While we cannot yet link the function of any of the Csl genes to their respective products, the expression and localization of these genes is consistent with the expected expression pattern of polysaccharide synthases that contribute to the primary cell wall.
11554469	Cellulose synthase genes (CesAs) encode a broad range of processive glycosyltransferases that synthesize (1-->4)beta-D-glycosyl units. The proteins predicted to be encoded by these genes contain up to eight membrane-spanning domains and four 'U-motifs' with conserved aspartate residues and a QxxRW motif that are essential for substrate binding and catalysis. In higher plants, the domain structure includes two plant-specific regions, one that is relatively conserved and a second, so-called 'hypervariable region' (HVR). Analysis of the phylogenetic relationships among members of the CesA multi-gene families from two grass species, Oryza sativa and Zea mays, with Arabidopsis thaliana and other dicotyledonous species reveals that the CesA genes cluster into several distinct sub-classes. Whereas some sub-classes are populated by CesAs from all species, two sub-classes are populated solely by CesAs from grass species. The sub-class identity is primarily defined by the HVR, and the sequence in this region does not vary substantially among members of the same sub-class. Hence, we suggest that the region is more aptly termed a 'class-specific region' (CSR). Several motifs containing cysteine, basic, acidic and aromatic residues indicate that the CSR may function in substrate binding specificity and catalysis. Similar motifs are conserved in bacterial cellulose synthases, the Dictyostelium discoideum cellulose synthase, and other processive glycosyltransferases involved in the synthesis of non-cellulosic polymers with (1-->4)beta-linked backbones, including chitin, heparan, and hyaluronan. These analyses re-open the question whether all the CesA genes encode cellulose synthases or whether some of the sub-class members may encode other non-cellulosic (1-->4)beta-glycan synthases in plants. For example, the mixed-linkage (1-->3)(1-->4)beta-D-glucan synthase is found specifically in grasses and possesses many features more similar to those of cellulose synthase than to those of other beta-linked cross-linking glycans. In this respect, the enzymatic properties of the mixed-linkage beta-glucan synthases not only provide special insight into the mechanisms of (1-->4)beta-glycan synthesis but may also uncover the genes that encode the synthases themselves.
11555254	Wolbachia, a group of parasitic bacteria of arthropods, are believed to be horizontally transmitted among arthropod taxa. We present a new probable example of interspecies horizontal transmission of Wolbachia by way of an endoparasite based on the conformity of Wolbachia gene sequences. Field samples of two rice planthoppers, Laodelphax striatellus and Sogatella furcifera possessed identical Wolbachia. Among three major endoparasites of planthoppers, a strepsipteran, Elenchus japonicus, harboured the identical Wolbachia strain, suggesting strepsipteran transmission of Wolbachia from one planthopper to the other. No Wolbachia was detected in a mermithid nematode Agamermis unka, and dryinid wasps possessed different types of Wolbachia.
11558007	The authors report a confirmed case of hantavirus pulmonary syndrome in the rural area of the municipality of Anajatuba, state of Maranho. Two other suspected cases from the same region are also described. The confirmed case involved a previously healthy young woman who died with signs and symptoms of acute respiratory insufficiency 5 days after presenting fever, myalgia and a dry cough. The patient was a student who was helping her parents with work in the fields; it was a habit of the family to store rice inside the house. The suspected cases involved two first-degree relatives working as field hands who died of acute respiratory insufficiency 24 and 48 hours, respectively, after presenting fever, myalgia and a dry cough. Both stored rice and corn inside their home. People living in the region reported massive infestations with rats in the woods and fields.
11559145	The present study was performed to investigate calcium-binding characteristics of different brans under simulated gastrointestinal pH conditions and to explore the significance of dietary fiber, oxalate, and phytate for calcium binding. Different brans (rice, rye, soy, fine wheat, coarse wheat, and oat) and CaCl(2) solution containing (45)Ca were incubated at 37 degrees C at gastric pH (2.2) followed by buffering steps of 1 degree from pH 3.0 to pH 8.0. Total calcium binding and calcium-binding capacity of the pH 2.2 soluble bran fraction were determined. Additionally, oxalate and phytate contents of brans and solubility profiles of phytic acid were investigated. Calcium-binding capacities of brans showed a clear pH dependence. At gastric pH calcium binding was low in all brans, ranging from 0.022 to 0.040 mmol of calcium/g of bran. Soy bran, nearly phytate-free, showed higher binding values up to pH 4.0 and lower values between pH 5.0 and 8.0. In all other brans, binding values increased strongly with increasing pH in the quantitative order rice bran > coarse wheat bran > fine wheat bran > rye bran > oat bran. The solubility profiles indicate that in the cases of rye, wheat, and rice bran phytate accounts for 70-82% of their total calcium-binding capacities. The results suggest that dietary fiber makes no important contribution to calcium binding, except for soy and oat brans. Oxalate plays only a minor role in calcium binding by brans.
11561414	Larvicidal activity against the Colorado potato beetle Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say) was measured for a series of N-tert-butyl-dibenzoylhydrazines having various substituents on the benzoyl (A-ring) moiety nearer to the tert-butyl group, with the other benzoyl (B-ring) moiety being unsubstituted. The effects of these substituent on the larvicidal activity were analyzed using classical quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) procedures. The effects of substituents on the A-ring moiety on larvicidal activity were entirely different from those against the lepidopteran rice stem borer Chilo suppressalis (Walker) previously reported. Position-specific steric and hydrophobic effects, as well as certain substitution patterns, were likely to participate in modifying the larvicidal activity. The activity of para-substituted compounds was generally lower than that of un-, ortho- and meta-substituted compounds. Most multi-substituted compounds showed an activity equivalent to or lower than that of the unsubstituted compound. Among 46 compounds tested, the 2-sec-butoxy analogue was most potent against L decemlineata, although this compound had previously been shown to be only weakly active against C suppressalis.
11561716	Quantitative trait loci (QTL), associated with the ability of plant regeneration from seed-derived callus of rice, were mapped using a recombinant inbred (RI) population from Milyang 23/Gihobyeo. Each flanking marker, RZ474 and RZ575, tightly linked to two QTLs (qSGR-3-1 and qSGR-3-2) that are located on chromosome 3 was used in marker-assisted selection (MAS). These markers were tested on IR 36/MG RI036 (F3), Milyang 23/MG RI036 (F3), and forty-one rice cultivars. A restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) marker, RZ575, that is located on chromosome 3 could effectively differentiate lines with high and poor regeneration ability, based on marker genotypes. This marker might be applicable for screening rice germplasms with high regeneration ability. Its introgression into elite lines might also be valuable in breeding programs to develop highly responsive genotypes to tissue culture.
11561859	The rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel, is the most destructive insect pest of rice in the United States and is a particularly severe pest in Louisiana. The current management program for this insect in Louisiana relies heavily on insecticides, most notably the seed treatment fipronil (Icon). Diversification of the management program by incorporation of alternative strategies is needed to improve the effectiveness and long-term stability of the program. In the three experiments reported here, three components of a diversified management program for the rice water weevil in Louisiana--host plant resistance, treatment of seeds with Icon, aid the cultural practice of delayed flooding--were investigated. Comparison of the densities of weevil larvae on the roots of several commercial cultivars indicated that the long-grain cultivar 'Jefferson' was more resistant to infestation by the rice water weevil than the other cultivars. The medium-grain cultivars 'Bengal', 'Earl' and 'Mars' and the long-grain variety 'Cocodrie' were the most susceptible to infestation. Comparison of yield data from untreated plots and plots treated with Icon indicated that the long-grain cultivars Cocodrie, Lemont, and Jefferson were more tolerant of weevil injury than the other cultivars. A 2-wk delay in flooding was associated with yield benefits in plots not treated with Icon. Treatment of seeds with Icon controlled weevils in all three screening experiments. The implications of these results for the development of an integrated management program for the rice water weevil are discussed.
11566382	It has been established that cyanobacteria play a vital role in the maintenance of flooded rice field fertility. To evaluate the potential use of nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria as a natural biofertilizer for rice in Uruguay, the diversity, abundance and nitrogen fixing ability of these microorganisms were studied in the field and in the laboratory. The effect of urea fertilization on population density and diversity of heterocystous cyanobacteria was determined on a 3-year assay. The highest number of cyanobacteria, 1.6x10(4) CFU x m(-2), was found at the control 8 weeks after flooding. About 90% of the heterocystous cyanobacteria found in both treatments belong to the genera Nostoc and Anabaena. Maximal nitrogenase activity was reached after 12 weeks of flooding in both treatments, with an average of about 20 micromol C2H4 x m(-2) x h(-1). To improve the understanding of the environmental factors that can limit nitrogenase activity in rice fields, two of the most abundant cyanobacteria isolates were tested for tolerance to combined nitrogen and two herbicides. In both isolates 0.2 mM ammonium inhibited nitrogenase activity after 24 h of culture. The addition of field-recommended doses of quinclorac and propanil affected oxygen photoevolution but nitrogenase activity was only inhibited by propanil.
11566385	A study of the diversity of endophytic bacteria present in seeds of a deepwater rice variety revealed the presence of seven types of BOX-PCR fingerprints. In order to evaluate the plant growth promoting potential the presence of nitrogenase, indole acetic acid production and mineral phosphate solubilization were estimated in the representative BOX-PCR types. The seven representatives of BOX-PCR types produced indole acetic acid, reduced acetylene and showed specific immunological cross-reaction with anti-dinitrogenase reductase antibody. Only four types showed mineral phosphate solubilizing ability. Comparison of cellulase and pectinase activities showed differences among different BOX-PCR types. PCR fingerprinting data showed that one strain isolated from the surface sterilized seeds as well as the aerial parts of the seedlings of rice variety showed low cellulase and pectinase but relatively high ARA. On the basis of 16S rDNA nucleotide sequence and BIOLOG system of bacterial identification, this strain was identified as Pantoea agglomerans. For studying the endophytic colonization this strain was genetically tagged with the reporter gene, gusA. Histochemical analysis of the seedling grown in hydroponics showed that the tagged strain colonized the root surface, root hairs, root cap, points of lateral root emergence, root cortex and the stelar region. Treatment of the roots with 2,4-D produced short thickened lateral roots which showed better colonization by P. agglomerans.
11567479	PURPOSE. This study was conducted to develop food lists consisting of the top food sources for energy (calories), protein, carbohydrate, fat, cholesterol, and dietary fiber for children in the fifth grade on Guam. METHODS. The food intake of fifth-grade children on Guam, ages 9 through 13, was collected using a one-day food record and computer-analyzed for nutrient content. The 1,006 individual food items from the food records were condensed into 194 food aggregations. Food lists including the 50 major contributors of each nutrient were formulated. Each list represents at least 82% of the total intake per macronutrient. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS. Many of the major contributors of energy, total fat, cholesterol, and protein in the diet of children on Guam are meat dishes, fried chicken, canned corned beef, and whole milk. Rice is consumed frequently and is an important contributor of energy, protien, carbohydrate, and fiber. Sweet beverages provide much of the dietary energy and carbohydrate. Potato and tortilla chips, although low in fiber, are eaten frequently and become major contributors of fiber. CONCLUSIONS. The foods that contribute to macronutrient intake in these fifth graders include many that are high in fat, processed, have low nutrient density, and are unlike foods traditionally consumed on Guam. RELEVANCE. These lists identify foods currently being consumed by children on Guam. These lists can be used to develop culturally specific nutrition education and dietary assessment instruments for children on Guam in an effort to reduce chronic disease risk factors and encourage positive health behaviors in children. KEY WORDS. Macronutrients, Energy, Food, Diet, Children, Guam, Chamorro
1156856	In convulsive pigeons on a diet of polished rice, a significant decrease of thiamine and calcium in the central nervous system rather than in peripheral nervous system was observed. In subcellular fractions of telencephalon in these same pigeons, thiamine and calcium levels decreased in the myelin-membrane and synaptosomal fractions. When radioactive thiamine was injected into the pieon during a convulsion, radio-activity was most prominent in the telencephalon and in subcellular fractions, in the myelin-membrane and synaptosomal fractions of telencephalon immediately after recovery from the convulsion. When calsium was added to the polished rice, the pigeons never had such convulsions. Thiamine and calsium concentrations in myelin-membrane and synaptosomal fractions of telencephalon of calcium-rice fed pigeons were significantly higher than in convulsive pigeons. It is suggested that calsium plays a role in binding the protein and thiamine which is related to the sodium transport system of excitable membranes.
11569638	This paper deals with the distribution and activity intake of 210Po and 210Pb in food, diet, and potable water samples of the Goa region and the estimated committed effective dose due to ingestion of these radionuclides. The activity concentrations of 210Po and 210Pb were determined in about 30 food and diet samples from different places of Goa in order to know the distribution and intake of these radionuclides. The activity concentration of 210Po in fish and prawn samples were significantly higher than concentrations found in vegetable and rice samples. Higher concentrations of 210Po and 210Pb were observed in leafy vegetables than in non-leafy vegetables. Among the diet samples the activity concentrations of 210Po and 210Pb in non-vegetarian meal samples were relatively higher than in vegetarian meal and breakfast samples. The committed effective dose due to annual intake of 210Po was found to be 94.6 microSv, 49.1 microSv, 10.5 microSv, and 2.2 microSv and that of 210Pb found to be 81.6 microSv, 59.9 microSv, 14.6 microSv, and 2.0 microSv for the ingestion of non-vegetarian meal, vegetarian meal, breakfast, and potable water, respectively.
11569992	Varieties of red raw rice are widely believed to have a better nutritional quality. The physiological effects of consuming different varieties of rice may not be so. The glycaemic index has been developed as an indicator of the physiological effect of foods. It is the glycaemic response of a 50 g carbohydrate portion of food expressed as a percentage of that of a standard. The objective of this study was to determine the glycaemic indices of different varieties of rice grown in Sri Lanka. Digestible carbohydrate content of 11 varieties of rice flour and bread were determined. Fasting blood samples followed by half-hourly samples for two hours were drawn after giving portions of either cooked rice or bread containing 50 g carbohydrate each. Fibre mill in Gampaha district. Twenty-two fibre mill workers aged between 25 and 50 years. The area under the blood glucose curve (AUC) for varieties of rice for a subject was calculated. Average AUC of 3 values for bread were calculated. Glycaemic index of each variety of rice was determined from the above variables. Glycaemic indices of varieties of rice differ. The glycaemic indices of varieties of red raw rice varied between 56 and 73 and the variety Bg 350 had the lowest glycaemic index. There was no significant difference between mean glycaemic index of varieties of white raw and some varieties of red raw rice (p = 0.2). Parboiled varieties of red raw rice had a significantly lower glycaemic index than white raw rice (p = 0.04) and some of the red raw rice (p = 0.005). The glycaemic index cannot be predicted from the colour of the rice grain. Red parboiled varieties of rice and Bg 350 can be recommended for patients with diabetes.
11570278	The demonstration of a bacterial cause of some plant diseases has been claimed few years after it was commonly recognized that bacteria were able to cause diseases of human and animal. Nevertheless, some sharp controversies took place, between German and American specialists (1897-1901), before the existence of bacterial diseases of plants was accepted by all phytopathologists. Nowadays, about 350 bacteria are described, which infect plants: they are pathovars, or subspecies, belonging to 21 genera. Bacterial diseases of plants can be classified into three major categories according to the type of symptoms shown by the infected plant: necrosis and wilt, soft-rot, tumour. The interaction between bacteria and plant cells is usually established from the apoplast, although some bacteria are xylem or phloem limited. This interaction involves an original protein secretion system (which is also described in bacteria pathogenic for animals), hydrolytic enzymes (pectinases, cellulases), toxins and/or phytohormones. Bacteria of one group (Agrobacterium) modify the plant metabolism after gene transfer from a plasmid. On the economic and social point of view, these diseases may be limiting factors of some key-productions (rice, cassava). In addition, they play a role in reducing the quality of agricultural products (reduced growth, spots on leaves and fruits). Control of bacterial diseases is limited. It relies usually on a combination of prophylaxy, chemical applications, and use of resistant genotypes.
11571620	An improved extraction method for ethyl carbamate, a genotoxic and carcinogenic compound found in various fermented foods and beverages, was investigated for its determination in the two most typical Korean traditional rice wines, takju and yakju. When the rice wines were extracted twice with chloroform at 30 degrees C for 60 min, the recovery of ethyl carbamate was less than 16%. When they were saturated with NaCl before extraction, the recovery of ethyl carbamate increased to 24.4% in takju and 67.2% in yakju. Adjustment of pH to 9.0 after NaCl saturation in takju resulted in a dramatic increase of recovery to 81.2%, but not in yakju. When the contents of ethyl carbamate and its precursor, urea, in various Korean traditional rice wines were determined, there was no correlation between the two contents. This is due to the fact that storage time is more important than urea content in the formation of ethyl carbamate in rice wine. In addition, its storage at high temperature resulted in a dramatic increase in ethyl carbamate content according to the prolonged storage time, suggesting that storage time and temperature play a key role in the formation of ethyl carbamate in Korean traditional rice wine.
11572482	The major QTL for submergence tolerance was locate in the 5.9 cM interval between flanking RFLP markers. To narrow down this region, a physical map was constructed using YAC and BAC clones. A 400-kb YAC was identified in this region and later its end fragments were used to screen a rice BAC library. Through chromosome walking, 24 positive BAC clones formed two contigs around linked-RFLP markers, R1164 and RZ698. Using one YAC end, six BAC ends and three RFLP markers, a fine-scale map was constructed of the 6.8-cM interval of S10709-RZ698 on rice chromosome 9. The submergence tolerance and related trait were located in a small, well-defined region around BAC-end marker 180D1R and RFLP marker R1164. The physical-to-map distance ratio in this region is as small as 172.5 kb/cM, showing that this region is a hot spot for recombination in the rice genome.
11573795	The aim of the study is to improve dose uniformity in the body by the compensator-rice and to decrease the dose to the lung by the partial lung block. Rando phantom supine was set up to treat bilateral fields with a 15 MV linear accelerator at 415cm treatment distance. The experimental procedure included three parts. The first part was the bilateral irradiation without rice compensator, and the second part was with rice compensator. In the third part, rice compensator and partial lung block were both used. The results of thermoluminescent dosimeters measurements indicated that without rice compensator the dose was non-uniform. Contrarily, the average dose homogeneity with rice compensator was measured within +/- 5%, except for the thorax region. Partial lung block can reduce the dose which the lung received. This is a simple method to improve the dose homogeneity and to reduce the lung dose received. The compensator-rice is cheap, and acrylic boxes are easy to obtain. Therefore, this technique is suitable for more studies.
11575104	Parboiled rice industry is one of main food industries in the south of Brazil. The main parts of the processing are the humidification and gelatinization of the grain. This procedure increases the productivity and nutritive and cooking values of the product. Some of these industries in the region utilize upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors as a biological treatment for carbon removal. For nitrogen removal, the proposed system aims to eliminate an extra denitrification reactor, making this step in the top of the UASB, an anoxic zone of the reactor. Nitrification was performed in aerated mixed reactor of 3.6 L.A fraction of the NR was recycled in the top of UASB reactor above the sludge blanket. Recycled ratio varied from 0; 1:0.5; 1:1.0; to 1:1.5. The maximum removal efficiency of NTK was 80%. The results confirm the viability of the proposed system for denitrification.
11575577	The aim of the present study is to investigate the validity of a new method to estimate the food intake of individual subjects by a household-based dietary survey. The new method is based on the combination of household-based food weighing and approximating the proportions by which family members shared each dish or food in the household, which has been one of the components of the National Nutrition Survey, Japan, since 1995. We analyzed two sets of data from 64 volunteers (female students taking a dietitian course and their mothers) in 32 households by the approximated proportion method (method A) and the individual-based food weighing method (B) as a reference measurement. Energy and macronutrient intake by individual subjects estimated by method A was highly correlated to the corresponding values by method B (Pearson's correlation coefficients: r=0.90-0.92). Average energy intake was likely to be underestimated by method A compared with method B, being lower by 94 kcal (6.2% of the reference value in method B), at least in the young and middle-aged female adults that were the subjects of this study. When intake of boiled rice was separately analyzed, underestimation of energy intake by method A was 44 kcal, which contributed to approximately 50% of the total magnitude of the underestimation. The procedure manual for the National Nutrition Survey requests the participants to individually weigh the amount of boiled rice taken by family members in the household. However, this procedure is not observed in many actual settings. Therefore, following this procedure would be an effective measure to improve the accuracy of the dietary data.
11577396	Method-performance studies were conducted for the notified revised analytical method of fenbutatin oxide (FBTO) and cyhexatin (CHT). FBTO and CHT spiked into rice, soybeans, spinach, orange, tea powder and tea extract at the level of 0.5 microgram/g for FBTO and 0.1 microgram/g for CHT were analyzed in replicate in 6 laboratories. Means recoveries of FBTO were 85.2-96.5% and those of CHT were 83.5-89.2% except from soybeans (46.5%). Repeatability relative standard deviation values of FBTO and CHT in each crop were in the ranges of 2.3-9.4% and 3.2-6.3%, respectively. Reproducibility relative standard deviations were 3.9-12.6% for FBTO and 8.3-12.9% for CHT. Detection limits were 0.015-0.05 microgram/g for FBTO and 0.005-0.02 microgram/g for CHT.
11577727	The relationship between active oxygen radicals and peroxidase induction on disease resistance in rice blades was investigated. Nitric oxide was produced in the whole blade stimulated by blast fungus elicitor. The induction of peroxidase activity was detected in active oxygen radical-treated rice blades 1 hour after treatment and thereafter. These results suggest that active oxygen radicals produced by stimulation with the elicitor could trigger peroxidase induction.
11577894	Inorganic copper is used as a broad-spectrum fungicide and bacteriocide on a variety of agricultural crops. After application, the copper residue typically accumulates in the upper 15 cm of soil. Data from the California Pesticide Use Reports were used to estimate the augmentation of copper in the soil that resulted from pesticide applications for the six years from 1993 to 1998 on 12 crops that are grown without rotation. The estimated mean mg Cu kg(-1) soil added to the upper 15 cm during the six years was the following: walnut (Juglans regia L.), 28; peach [Prunus persica (L.) Batsch var. persica], 22; nectarine [Prunuspersica (L.) Batsch var. nucipersica (Suckow) C.K. Schneid], 19; cherry (Pseudolmedia oxyphyllaria Donn. Sm.), 18; rice (Orvza sativa L.), 16; apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.), 11; orange [Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck) and plum (Prunus domestica L. subsp. domestica), 9; lemon [Citrus limon (L.) Burm.f.] and almond [Prunus dulcis (Mill.) D.A. Webb], 6; pear (Pyrus communis L.), 4; and grape (Vitis vinifera L.), 3. In addition, for the first five of these crops, we estimated the area that was treated with each level of kg Cu ha(-1). For example, for walnut orchards, we estimated that 12 500 ha, or 17% of the planted area, was treated with a quantity of Cu that would increase the total concentration of Cu in the upper 15 cm of soil by at least 50 mg Cu kg(-1) soil. A comparison of the amount of Cu per unit planted area that was applied in the first and second half of the study indicated that the intensity of copper use is either relatively constant or increasing, depending on the crop. The findings are discussed in relation to the potential effect of continued long-term use of Cu pesticides on soil sustainability.
11578311	In anoxic paddy soil, rice straw is decomposed to CH(4) and CO(2) by a complex microbial community consisting of hydrolytic, fermenting, syntrophic and methanogenic microorganisms. Here, we investigated which of these microbial groups colonized the rice straw and which were localized in the soil. After incubation of rice straw in anoxic soil slurries for different periods, the straw pieces were removed from the soil, and both slurry and straw were studied separately. Although the potential activities of polysaccharolytic enzymes were higher in the soil slurry than in the straw incubations, the actual release of reducing sugars was higher in the straw incubations. The concentrations of fermentation products, mainly acetate and propionate, increased steadily in the straw incubations, whereas only a little CH(4) was formed. In the soil slurries, on the other hand, fermentation products were low, whereas CH(4) production was more pronounced. The production of CH(4) or of fermentation products in the separated straw and soil incubations accounted in sum for 54-82% of the CH(4) formed when straw was not removed from the soil. Syntrophic propionate degradation to acetate, CO(2) and H(2) was thermodynamically more favourable in the soil than in the straw fraction. These results show that hydrolysis and primary fermentation reactions were mainly localized on the straw pieces, whereas the syntrophic and methanogenic reactions were mainly localized in the soil. The percentage of bacterial relative to total microbial 16S rRNA content was higher on the straw than in the soil, whereas it was the opposite for the archaeal 16S rRNA content. It appears that rice straw is mainly colonized by hydrolytic and fermenting bacteria that release their fermentation products into the soil pore water where they are further degraded to CH(4). Hence, complete methanogenic degradation of straw in rice soil seems to involve compartmentalization.
1157911
11580337	We measure the displacement response of a frictional multicontact interface between identical polymer glasses to a biased shear force oscillation. We evidence the existence, for maximum forces close below the nominal static threshold, of a jamming creep regime governed by an aging-rejuvenation competition acting within the micrometer-sized contacting asperities. The time dependence of the creep process deviates from the standard Rice-Ruina [J. R. Rice and A. L. Ruina, J. Appl. Mech. 50, 343 (1983)] phenomenology at early times; this suggests the possibility of an aging-rejuvenation competition at much smaller scales, within the nanometer-thick adhesive junctions.
11581262	The high selectivity offered by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography on-line coupled to electrospray ionization mass spectrometry has been utilized to characterize the major and minor light-harvesting proteins of photosystem II (Lhcb). Isomeric forms of the proteins, revealed either on the basis of different hydrophobicity enabling their chromatographic separation or on the basis of different molecular masses identified within one single chromatographic peak, were readily identified in a number of monocot and dicot species. The presence of several Lhcb1 isoforms (preferably in dicots) can explain the tendency of dicot Lhcb1 to form trimeric aggregates. The Lhcb1 molecular masses ranged from 24,680 to 25,014 among different species, whereas within the same species, the isoforms differed by 14-280 mass units. All Lhcb1 proteins appear to be highly conserved among different species such that they belong to a single gene group that has several different gene family members. In all species examined, the number of isoforms corresponded more or less to the genes cloned previously. Two isoforms of Lhcb3 were found in petunia and tomato. For Lhcb6, the most divergent of all light-harvesting proteins, the greatest number of isoforms was found in petunia, tobacco, tomato, and rice. Lhcb2, Lhcb4, and Lhcb5 were present in only one form. The isoforms are assumed to play an important role in the adaptation of plants to environmental changes.
11582744	Improved histochemical staining for GUS activity, PCR and Western blotting were used to analyse the progeny population of Bt rice crossed with conventional rice varieties. A total of 392 plants expressing Bt toxin protein were found in 394 GUS positive plants. The result demonstrated that cry1Ab gene closely inherited and expressed with reporter gene gus. GUS assays indicated that cry1Ab gene of Bt rice inherits as a single dorminant gene. Southern hybridization confirmed cry1Ab gene can inherit stabily in the progenies of Bt rice. Mendelian segregation of reporter gene gus was also observed in F2, BC1 and BC1F2 progenies, which indicated that cry1Ab gene inherits as a single dorminant gene in the progenies of Bt rice crossed with conventional rice varieties.
11583435	In a preliminary study, the addition of antibiotics was shown to reduce bacterial concentrations in Entodinium exiguum cultures by more than 99% in 4 h, whereas the protozoal population was apparently unaffected. Using this procedure, the growth and amylolytic capability of Entodinium exiguum, in the presence or absence of live bacteria, was studied in vitro. Treatments for Trial 1 were protozoa plus antibiotics (PA), PA plus autoclaved bacteria (PAB), protozoa plus living bacteria (PLB), and only bacteria (BAC). Autoclaved or non-autoclaved cornstarch was used as an energy source. Treatment main effects were as follows: higher concentration of E. exiguum in PLB than in PA or PAB at 24 and 48 h (P < 0.01); PA and PAB were not different (P > 0.05); concentrations of E. exiguum higher in autoclaved cornstarch at 12 h (P < 0.05) but lower than in non-autoclaved cornstarch at 24 and 48 h (P < 0.01); and starch digestion in PLB was higher than in PA and PAB at all time periods, but only greater than BAC up to 24 h (P < 0.01). In Trial 2, only treatments PA, PLB, and BAC were tested. Rice starch and cornstarch were used as substrates. With rice starch, growth was higher in PLB than in PA at 24 and 48 h (P < 0.05). Starch digestion started earlier in PLB with rice starch (P < 0.05) but was complete for both substrates after 24 h. Up to 12 h (autoclaved cornstarch and rice starch) and 24 h (non-autoclaved cornstarch and cornstarch), the sum of digestion by bacteria and protozoa did not equal the extent of digestion in PLB, suggesting some kind of synergism. Total extent of digestion with protozoa was similar between the two sources; however, bacteria digested rice starch faster and to a greater extent than cornstarch. Approximate lag times with rice starch, autoclaved cornstarch, and non-autoclaved cornstarch were 6, 3, and 12 h for bacteria and < 6, 3, and 9 h for protozoa, respectively. Rate of digestion for non-autoclaved cornstarch was similar for bacteria and protozoa, whereas the rate of bacterial digestion was much faster with the other two substrates (autoclaved cornstarch and rice starch).
11584079	We are studying novel tocotrienols, which have a number of activities that might interfere with the formation of atherosclerotic plaques, including hypocholesterolemic, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antiproliferation effects. This study compared the effects of alpha-tocopherol, the tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF(25)) and didesmethyl tocotrienol (d-P(25)-T3) of rice bran on the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic lesions in C57BL/6 apolipoprotein (apo)E-deficient (-/-) mice. These mice are an excellent model because they become hyperlipidemic even when they consume a low fat diet and they develop complex atherosclerotic lesions similar to those of humans. These compounds were also tested in wild-type C57BL/6 apoE (+/+) and (+/-) mice fed low or high fat diets. When a high fat diet was supplemented with alpha-tocopherol, TRF(25) or d-P(25)-T3 and fed to mice (+/+) for 24 wk, atherosclerotic lesion size was reduced 23% (P = 0.33), 36% (P = 0.14) and 57% (P < 0.02), respectively, and in mice (+/-) fed for 18 wk, lesions were reduced by 19% (P = 0.15), 28% (P < 0.01) and 33% (P < 0.005), respectively, compared with mice fed a control diet. A low fat diet did not cause atherosclerotic lesions in these mice. The low fat diet supplemented with TRF(25) or d-P(25)-T3 fed to apoE-deficient (-/-) mice for 14 wk decreased atherosclerotic lesion size by 42% (P < 0.04) and 47% (P < 0.01), respectively, whereas alpha-tocopherol supplementation resulted in only an 11% (P = 0.62) reduction. These results demonstrate the superior efficacy of tocotrienols compared with alpha-tocopherol. Although tocotrienols decreased serum triglycerides, total and LDL cholesterol levels, the decreases in atherosclerotic lesions seem to be due to the other activities. Serum tocol concentrations in various groups are also described. This is the first report of a significant reduction in the atherosclerotic lesion size in all three genotypes of apoE mice fed a novel tocotrienol (d-P(25)-T3) of rice bran. Dietary tocotrienol supplements may provide a unique approach to promoting cardiovascular health.
11586427	A total of 256 sites in 11 habitats were surveyed for Biomphalaria in Melquiades rural area (State of Minas Gerais) in August and November 1999 and in March 2000. Of the 1,780 Biomphalaria collected, 1,721 (96.7%) were B. glabrata and 59 (3.3%) B. straminea. Snails were found in all habitats except in wells, with the largest mean numbers in tanks, seepage ponds and canals, and the smallest numbers in springs, rice fields and fishponds. People's knowledge of the occurrence of Biomphalaria at the collection sites and the presence of Biomphalaria ova were strongly correlated with the occurrence of snails, and distance between houses and collection sites, as well as water velocity were inversely correlated with Biomphalaria occurrence (p < 0.001). The strongest predictor o f Biomphalaria occurrence was the presence of tilapia fish in fishponds. Fourteen Biomphalaria (0.8% of all snails) found at 6 sites were infected with Schistosoma mansoni. Suggestions are made for the utilization of local people's knowledge in snail surveys and further studies are recommended on the possible use of tilapia for biological control of Biomphalaria in fishponds, as well as modeling of S. mansoni transmission and reinfection.
11587512	High-resolution fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) on interphase and pachytene nuclei, and extended DNA fibers enabled microscopic distinction of DNA sequences less than a few thousands of base pairs apart. We applied this technique to reveal the molecular organization of telomere ends in japonica rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica), which consist of the Arabidopsis type TTTAGGG heptameric repeats and the rice specific subtelomeric tandem repeat sequence A (TrsA). Southern hybridizations of DNA digested with Bal31 and EcoRI, and FISH on chromosomes and extended DNA fibers demonstrated that (1) all chromosome ends possess the telomere tandem repeat measuring 3-4 kb; (2) the subtelomeric TrsA occurs only at the ends of the long arms of chromosomes 6 and 12, and measure 6 and 10 kb, which corresponds to 231 and 682 copies for these sites, respectively; (3) the telomere and TrsA repeats are separated by at most a few thousands of intervening nucleotide sequences. The molecular organization for a general telomere organization in plant chromosomes is discussed.
11589565	We have developed a population of transgenic indica rice lines containing the autonomous Activator transposon (Ac) from maize. A transposon excision assay using as the reporter the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene driven by the ubiquitin promoter was used to monitor Ac excision in various tissues. Our results, based on Ac excision and re-insertion events in 289 independent rice transformants, provide an insight into transposon biology in this heterologous model cereal system. Twenty percent of the transformed calli displayed uniform GFP activity, indicating very early Ac excision, while later excision in another 40% of calli was revealed by mosaic GFP activity. Both phenotypes were confirmed by molecular analysis. Progeny analysis revealed active transposition, with some lines displaying transposition to unlinked positions. Amplification of the Ac copy number was observed in approximately 30% of the lines, thus tagging multiple sites. We developed a "transposon insertion display" procedure, involving the use of CpG methylation-sensitive enzymes and a macroarray-based approach with cDNA as a complex hybridization probe, to selectively detect transposon insertions in transcribed sequences. Sequencing of tagged sites identified by hybridization to leaf cDNA revealed that all the hybridizing tags were homologous to genes or ESTs present in databases. Extrapolation from these data suggests that 12% of all amplified tags display homology to genes or ESTs - five times more than would be expected on the basis of random transpositional insertion. This Tagged Transcriptome Display (TTD) technique, using a population of Ac insertion-tagged lines, therefore represents a convenient approach for the identification of tagged genes involved in specific processes, as revealed by their expression patterns.
11590042	Genome-scale sequencing projects have provided the essential information required for the construction of entire genome chips or microarrays for RNA expression studies. The Arabidopsis and rice genomes have been sequenced and whole-genome oligonucleotide arrays are being manufactured. These should soon become available to researchers. Expression studies using genomic-scale expression arrays are providing us with a vast quantity of information at a rapid pace. The rate-limiting step in this type of experiments is not the data generation step but rather the data analysis component of experiments. We report improvements that should facilitate the analysis of Affymetrix Genechip expression data.
11590741	This paper presents the study on agriculture adaptation to climate change by adopting the assumed land use change strategy to resist the water shortage and to build the capacity to adapt the expected climate change in the northern China. The cost-benefit analysis result shows that assumed land use change from high water consuming rice cultivation to other crops is very effective. Over 7 billions m3 of water can be saved. Potential conflicts between different social interest groups, different regions, demand and supply, and present and future interests have been analyzed for to form a policy to implement the adaptation strategy. Trade, usually taken as one of adaptation strategies, was suggested as a policy option for to support land use change, which not only meets the consumption demand, but also, in terms of resources, imports water resources.
11590749	The impacts of different O3 concentration on the biomass and yield of rice were studied by using OTC-1 open-top chambers. Experimental treatments included the activated charcoal-filtered air (CFA), 50 nl/L (CF50), 100 nl/L (CF100) and 200 nl/L (CF200) concentrations of O3. The O3 treatments significantly decreased the total biomass per plant. The elevated O3 exposure resulted in a more decrease in the root growth than in the shoot growth. Assessments of yield characteristics at the final harvest revealed an O3-induced decrease in the number of grains per plant, resulting from fewer ears per plant, fewer grains per ear and more unfilled grains per ear. The 1000 grain dry weight and the harvest index (HI) were not changed significantly under 50 nl/L or 100 nl/L O3 exposure, but reduced by 17.0% and 4.8% by 200 nl/L O3 treatment, respectively. Compared to the CFA treatment, CF50, CF100 and CF200 treatments caused a 8.2%, 26.1%, 49.1% decrease of the grain yield per plant, and a 14.2%, 31.7%, 51.7% decrease of the total biomass per plant, respectively. Linear regression showed that the 7 h-daily mean O3 concentration exposure for 3 months (July-September) and AOT40 (cumulative exposure accumulation over threshold 40 nl/L) were well correlated with the relative grain yield. A yield loss of 10% was estimated to be at 46.9 nl/L O3 for 7 h-daily mean O3 concentration exposure or at 12930 nl/(L.h) O3 for AOT40.
11591236	Sources of viscous soluble fibre, such as barley and oats, have often been included in the weaning diet of the pig to accelerate development of the large intestine. Inclusion of a non-fermentable, viscous compound, sodium carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), in a low-fibre weaning diet was tested to assess the influence of digesta viscosity on the gut in the absence of increased fermentation. Two CMC sources, of low and high viscosity, were added to cooked rice-based diet at 40 g/kg total diet. A third control rice diet did not contain any CMC. Diets were fed for 13 d following weaning at 3 weeks of age. Addition of CMC to the diet significantly increased the intestinal viscosity of digesta within the small (P<0.001) and large (P<0.05) intestine. No simple association was found between increases in intestinal viscosity and effects on intestinal morphology and whole-body growth. The average empty-body-weight gain and the small intestinal villus height increased with low-viscosity CMC, but decreased with the high-viscosity CMC group. The full large intestinal weight increased in all pigs fed CMC. Dietary CMC (both low- and high-viscosity) increased the percentage moisture of digesta and faeces, and was associated with increased faecal shedding of enterotoxigenic haemolytic Escherichia coli. Feed ingredients in weaning diets that excessively increase the viscosity of the intestinal digesta may be detrimental to pig health and production.
11591643	Long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons have been shown to make up much of the maize genome. Although these elements are known to be prevalent in plant genomes of a middle-to-large size, little information is available on the relative proportions composed by specific families of elements in a single genome. We sequenced a library of randomly sheared genomic DNA from maize to characterize this genome. BLAST analysis of these sequences demonstrated that the maize genome is composed of diverse sequences that represent numerous families of retrotransposons. The largest families contain the previously described elements Huck, Ji, and Opie. Approximately 5% of the sequences are predicted to encode proteins. The genomic abundance of 16 families of elements was estimated by hybridization to an array of 10,752 maize bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones. Comparisons of the number of elements present on individual BACs indicated that retrotransposons are in general randomly distributed across the maize genome. A second library was constructed that was selected to contain sequences hypomethylated in the maize genome. Sequence analysis of this library indicated that retroelements abundant in the genome are poorly represented in hypomethylated regions. Fifty-six retroelement sequences corresponding to the integrase and reverse transcriptase domains were isolated from approximately 407,000 maize expressed sequence tags (ESTs). Phylogenetic analysis of these and the genomic retroelement sequences indicated that elements most abundant in the genome are less abundant at the transcript level than are more rare retrotransposons. Additional phylogenies also demonstrated that rice and maize retrotransposon families are frequently more closely related to each other than to families within the same species. An analysis of the GC content of the maize genomic library and that of maize ESTs did not support recently published data that the gene space in maize is found within a narrow GC range, but does indicate that genic sequences have a higher GC content than intergenic sequences (52% vs. 47% GC).
11592713	Cytosolic CuZnSOD removes deleterious superoxides from plant cells. In order to understand its function better, we sought to express a monocot CuZnSOD gene in transgenic Arabidopsis. We constructed a transgene using the CaMV 35S promoter to express a rice cytosolic CuZnSOD gene in Arabidopsis and generated over 200 transformants. A 16 kD polypeptide, the same size as the native rice CuZnSOD polypeptide, was detected in the transgenic Arabidopsis. Interestingly, two forms of rice CuZnSOD, rSODI and rSODII, having the same dimeric size, were detected in the transgenic plants. rSODII protein was relatively abundant but had low specific activity. In contrast, rSODI protein was relatively rare and had high specific activity. Inter-conversion of rSODI and rSODII could be achieved by the addition and removal of copper ions into the purified recombinant SOD and to the leaf extract of transgenic plants. Our analysis indicates that rSODI most likely corresponds to native rice CuZnSOD that has incorporated the Cu and Zn ions required for full activity, whereas the less active rSODII form may not have properly incorporated the necessary copper ions.
11593302	This study examined if leucine, arginine or glycine supplementation in adult obese patients (body mass index of 33 +/- 4 kg/m(2)) consuming a Brazilian low energy and protein diet (4.2 MJ/day and 0.6 g protein/kg) affects protein and amino acid metabolism. After four weeks adaptation to this diet, each subject received supplements of these amino acids (equivalent to 0.2 g protein kg(-1) day(-1)) in random order. On the seventh day of each amino acid supplementation, a single-dose 15N-glycine study was carried out. There were no significant differences in protein flux, synthesis or breakdown. The protein flux (grams of nitrogen, gN/9 h) was 55 +/- 24 during the nonsupplemented diet intake and 39 +/- 10, 44 +/- 22 and 58 +/- 35 during the leucine-, glycine- and arginine-supplemented diet intake, respectively; protein synthesis (gN/9 h) was 57 +/- 24, 36 +/- 10, 41 +/- 22 and 56 +/- 36, respectively; protein breakdown (gN/9 h) was 51 +/- 24, 34 +/- 10, 32 +/- 28 and 53 +/- 35, respectively; kinetic balance (gN/9 h) was 3.2 +/- 1.8, 4.1 +/- 1.7, 3.4 +/- 2.9 and 3.9 +/- 1.6. There was no difference in amino acid profiles due to leucine, arginine or glycine supplementation. The present results suggest that 0.6 g/kg of dietary protein is enough to maintain protein turnover in obese women consuming a reduced energy diet and that leucine, arginine or glycine supplementation does not change kinetic balance or protein synthesis.
11594368	Gravitropism of plant organs such as roots, stems and coleoptiles can be separated into four distinct phases: 1. perception (gravity sensing), 2. transduction of a signal into the target region and 3. the response (differential growth). This last reaction is followed by a straightening of the curved organ (4.). The perception of the gravitropic stimulus upon horizontal positioning of the organ (1.) occurs via amyloplasts that sediment within the statocytes. This conclusion is supported by our finding that submerged rice coleoptiles that lack sedimentable amyloplasts show no graviresponse. The mode of signal transduction (2.) from the statocytes to the peripheral cell layers is still unknown. Differential growth (3.) consists of a cessation of cell expansion on the upper side and an enhancement of elongation on the lower side of the organ. Based on the facts that the sturdy outer epidermal wall (OEW) constitutes the growth-controlling structure of the coleoptile and that growth-related osmiophilic particles accumulate on the upper OEW, it is concluded that the differential incorporation of wall material (presumably glycoproteins) is causally involved. During gravitropic bending, electron-dense particles ('wall-loosening capacity') accumulate on the growth-inhibited upper OEW. It is proposed that the autotropic straightening response, which is in part due to an acceleration of cell elongation on the curved upper side, may be attributable to an incorporation of the accumulated particles ('release of wall-loosening capacity'). This novel mechanism of autotropic re-bending and its implications for the Cholodny-Went hypothesis are discussed.
11594462	Bacillus species producing a thermostable phytase was isolated from soil, boiled rice, and mezu (Korean traditinal koji). The activity of phytase increased markedly at the late stationary phase. An extracellular phytase from Bacillus sp. KHU-10 was purified to homogeneity by acetone precipitation and DEAE-Sepharose and phenyl-Sepharose column chromatographies. Its molecular weight was estimated to be 46 kDa on gel filtration and 44 kDa on SDS-polyacrylamide gel elctrophoresis. Its optimum pH and temperature for phytase activity were pH 6.5-8.5 and 40 degrees C without 10 mM CaCl2 and pH 6.0-9.5 and 60 degrees C with 10 mM CaCl2. About 50% of its original activity remained after incubation at 80 degrees C or 10 min in the presence of 10 mM CaCl2. The enzyme activity was fairly stable from pH 6.5 to 10.0. The enzyme had an isoelectric point of 6.8. As for substrate specificity, it was very specific for sodium phytate and showed no activity on other phosphate esters. The Km value for sodium phytate was 50 microM. Its activity was inhibited by EDTA and metal ions such as Ba2+, Cd2+, Co2+, Cr3+, Cu2+, Hg2+, and Mn2+ ions.
11595541	In animals and humans, steroid hormones (SHs) regulate gene transcription via the binding of nuclear receptors. In addition, rapid nongenomic effects of steroids occur and appear to be mediated by plasma-membrane receptors. Plants also use steroids as signaling molecules. These brassinosteroids (BRs) show structural similarity to the SHs of vertebrates and insects. Plant mutants defective in brassinosteroid biosynthesis or perception exhibit dwarfism and reduced fertility, and reveal the need for BRs during growth and development. BR signaling in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa) - dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous models, respectively - is mediated by the receptor kinases BRI1 and OsBRI1. The extracellular domain of BRI1 perceives BRs and the signal is mediated via an intracellular kinase domain that autophosphorylates Ser and Thr residues and apparently has the potential to phosphorylate other substrates. BRI1 transduces steroid signals across the plasma membrane and mediates genomic effects.
11596636	Plant seedlings exhibit automorphogenesis on clinostats. The occurrence of automorphogenesis was confirmed under microgravity in Space Shuttle STS-95 flight. Rice coleoptiles showed an inclination toward the caryopsis in the basal region and a spontaneous curvature in the same adaxial direction in the elongating region both on a three-dimensional (3-D) clinostat and in space. Both rice roots and Arabidopsis hypocotyls also showed a similar morphology in space and on the 3-D clinostat. In rice coleoptiles, the mechanisms inducing such an automorphic curvature were studied. The faster-expanding convex side of rice coleoptiles showed a higher extensibility of the cell wall than the opposite side. Also, in the convex side, the cell wall thickness was smaller, the turnover of the matrix polysaccharides was more active, and the microtubules oriented more transversely than the concave side, and these differences appear to be causes of the curvature. When rice coleoptiles grown on the 3-D clinostat were placed horizontally, the gravitropic curvature was delayed as compared with control coleoptiles. In clinostatted coleoptiles, the corresponding suppression of the amyloplast development was also observed. Similar results were obtained in Arabidopsis hypocotyls. Thus, the induction of automorphogenesis and a concomitant decrease in graviresponsiveness occurred in plant shoots grown under microgravity conditions.
11596733	A postprandial ammonia tolerance test (PPATT) was performed on normal dogs and dogs with signs that suggested they may have liver disease. All dogs underwent transcolonic scintigraphy, liver biopsy, or both and were assigned to extrahepatic disease, primary hepatocellular, and congenital portosystemic vascular anomalies (PSVA) groups. Each dog was fed a chicken and rice diet providing 25% of its estimated daily metabolizable energy requirement (MER) as an ammonia challenge. This is practical in patients with liver disease because ammonium chloride administration often causes vomiting or ammonia toxicity. Venous ammonia concentrations were measured before feeding and every 2 hours after feeding for 8 hours. No difference in mean ammonia concentrations between dogs with extrahepatic disease and control dogs was found. Therefore, the specificity of the PPATT was 100%. Dogs with hepatocellular disease showed no change in mean ammonia concentration at any time point, before or after feeding, but sensitivity was greatest when venous ammonia was measured 6 hours after feeding (sensitivity before feeding, 28%, and after feeding, 36%). Among dogs with congenital PSVA, mean ammonia concentrations were higher than the reference range at all time points before and after feeding, and peak mean ammonia concentration occurred 6 hours after feeding. In this group, the sensitivity of the PPATT was 81% before feeding and 91% 6 hours after feeding. This study demonstrates that the measurement of venous ammonia concentration is a useful test to detect congenital PSVA, and the sensitivity of the test may be improved by sampling 6 hours after feeding. The PPATT has poor sensitivity in detecting primary hepatocellular disease.
11596755	The midge Chironomus tepperi was used in laboratory experiments to assess the relative toxicity of formulated molinate, clomazone, and thiobencarb, three herbicides used in Australian rice crops. Static bioassays were initiated with first-instar larvae at herbicide concentrations between 0.0625 and 2 times the anticipated field concentrations (AFCs) expected from the registered application rates. Adult emergence success, development time, and wing length were used as indices of the effect of each herbicide. Clomazone had no effect on any parameters at concentrations up to 0.288 mg/L (p > 0.05). Molinate significantly increased development time at concentrations equivalent to the AFC (3.6 mg/L) and above (p < 0.05). Thiobencarb reduced emergence success of adult C. tepperi at 0.0625 times the AFC (0.1875 mg/L) as well as decreasing male adult size and increasing development time for males and females at 0.125 times the AFC (p < 0.05). Nontarget effects of the herbicides on aquatic invertebrate communities were assessed in shallow experimental ponds using commercial application rates. One week after treatment, only thiobencarb had a significant effect, suppressing populations of chironomids, calanoids, and cyclopoids (p < 0.05). Four weeks later, all populations had recovered, equaling or exceeding control densities.
11597241	Ten novel compounds, each consisting of two subunits and a linker, were designed with the aid of molecular modeling to resemble the natural steroidal phytohormone brassinolide. The mimetics were synthesized and subjected to the rice leaf lamina inclination bioassay to test for brassinosteroid activity. Most of the mimetics displayed very weak or no bioactivity, but two were strongly active when coapplied with the auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), which synergizes the activity of brassinosteroids. Thus, 1-(4,6 alpha,7 alpha-trihydroxy-5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthyl)-2-(6 alpha',7 alpha'-dihydroxy-5',6',7',8'-tetrahydronaphthyl)ethyne (4) and (E)-1,2-bis[trans-(4a alpha,8a beta)-4-oxo-6 alpha,7 alpha-dihydroxy-4a,5,6,7,8,8a-hexahydro-(3H)-naphthyl]ethylene (11) showed exceptional activity at doses as low as 0.01 ng and 0.001 ng/plant, respectively. These compounds are the first biologically active nonsteroidal brassinolide mimetics.
11598221	Biochemical analysis of amylose-extender (ae) mutant of rice (Oryza sativa) revealed that the mutation in the gene for starch-branching enzyme IIb (BEIIb) specifically altered the structure of amylopectin in the endosperm by reducing short chains with degree of polymerization of 17 or less, with the greatest decrease in chains with degree of polymerization of 8 to 12. The extent of such change was correlated with the gelatinization properties of the starch granules, as determined in terms of solubility in urea solution. The ae mutation caused a dramatic reduction in the activity of BEIIb. The activity of soluble starch synthase I (SSI) in the ae mutant was significantly lower than in the wild type, suggesting that the mutation had a pleiotropic effect on the SSI activity. In contrast, the activities of BEI, BEIIa, ADP-Glc pyrophosphorylase, isoamylase, isoamylase, pullulanase, and Suc synthase were not affected by the mutation. Therefore, it is stressed that the function of BEIIb cannot be complemented by BEIIa and BEI. These results strongly suggest that BEIIb plays a specific role in the transfer of short chains, which might then be extended by SS to form the A and B(1) chains of amylopectin cluster in rice endosperm.
11598238	Fourteen putative rice (Oryza sativa) beta-expansin genes, Os-EXPB1 through Os-EXPB14, were identified in the expressed sequence tag and genomic databases. The DNA and deduced amino acid sequences are highly conserved in all 14 beta-expansins. They have a series of conserved C (cysteine) residues in the N-terminal half of the protein, an HFD (histidine-phenylalanine-aspartate) motif in the central region, and a series of W (tryptophan) residues near the carboxyl terminus. Five beta-expansin genes are expressed in deepwater rice internodes, with especially high transcript levels in the growing region. Expression of four beta-expansin genes in the internode was induced by treatment with gibberellin and by wounding. The wound response resulted from excising stem sections or from piercing pinholes into the stem of intact plants. The level of wound-induced beta-expansin transcripts declined rapidly 5 h after cutting of stem sections. We conclude that the expression of beta-expansin genes is correlated with rapid elongation of deepwater rice internodes, it is induced by gibberellin and wounding, and wound-induced beta-expansin mRNA appears to turn over rapidly.
11598785	This study evaluated the potential effects of different concentrations of bleached/unbleached kraft mill effluent (B/UKME) on several reproductive endpoints in adult largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides). The kraft mill studied produces a 50/50 mix of bleached/unbleached market pulp with an estimated release of 36 million gal of effluent/day. Bleaching sequences were C90d10EopHDp and CEHD for softwood (pines) and hardwoods (mainly tupelo, gums, magnolia, and water oaks), respectively. Bass were exposed to different effluent concentrations (0 [controls, exposed to well water], 10, 20, 40, or 80%) for either 28 or 56 days. At the end of each exposure period, fish were euthanized, gonads collected for histological evaluation and determination of gonadosomatic index (GSI), and plasma was analyzed for 17beta-estradiol, 11-ketotestosterone, and vitellogenin (VTG). Largemouth bass exposed to B/UKME responded with changes at the biochemical level (decline in sex steroids in both sexes and VTG in females) that were usually translated into tissue/organ-level responses (declines in GSI in both sexes and in ovarian development in females). Although most of these responses occurred after exposing fish to 40% B/UKME concentrations or greater, some were observed after exposures to 20% B/UKME. These threshold concentrations fall within the 60% average yearly concentration of effluent that exists in the stream near the point of discharge (Rice Creek), but are above the <10% effluent concentration present in the St. Johns River. The chemical(s) responsible for such changes as well as their mode(s) of action remain unknown at this time.
11599382	To compare the influence of different methods with YRW (yellow rice wine) on the composition of Siwu decoction. TCL-SM was used to determine the ferulic acid, paeoniflorin and matters dissolved in ether in Siwu decoction. The Siwu decoction with YRW preparation has the highest contents, while the Siwu decoction containing Chinese Angelica root and Rehmammia root prepared with YRW has the lowest contents. The Siwu decoction prepared with YRW or added with YRW is more helpful for ferulic acid and paeoniflorin to be dissolved out than the Siwu decoction containing Chinese Angelica root and Rehmannia root prepared with YRW.
11599559	Sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome revealed a unique complexity of the plant heat stress transcription factor (Hsf) family. By structural characteristics and phylogenetic comparison, the 21 representatives are assigned to 3 classes and 14 groups. Particularly striking is the finding of a new class of Hsfs (AtHsfC1) closely related to Hsf1 from rice and to Hsfs identified from frequently found expressed sequence tags of tomato, potato, barley, and soybean. Evidently, this new type of Hsf is well expressed in different plant tissues. Besides the DNA binding and oligomerization domains (HR-A/B region), we identified other functional modules of Arabidopsis Hsfs by sequence comparison with the well-characterized tomato Hsfs. These are putative motifs for nuclear import and export and transcriptional activation (AHA motifs). There is intriguing flexibility of size and sequence in certain parts of the otherwise strongly conserved N-terminal half of these Hsfs. We have speculated about possible exon-intron borders in this region in the ancient precursor gene of plant Hsfs, similar to the exon-intron structure of the present mammalian Hsf-encoding genes.
11599982	Dithiocarbamates are a class of fungicides extensively used in many crops worldwide. The current residue definition of dithiocarbamates in food for compliance with maximum residue limits, at national and international levels, is total residues arising from the use of any or each dithiocarbamate fungicide, determined as CS(2). The analytical method most frequently used to analyze dithiocarbamate residues in food for monitoring purposes was proposed more than 30 years ago. In this method, total dithiocarbamates are decomposed to CS(2), which is purified and reacted with a cupric reagent. The yellow complex formed is quantified by spectrophotometry. In this paper, a new reaction system for the purification and complexation of CS(2) is proposed. The new system is less fragile than the traditional design, is easier to assemble, and allows for a higher sample throughput, in addition to being of low cost. Recovery of added mancozeb, thiram, or ziram (0.15-8.0 mg/kg) in rice, beans, apple, banana, orange, papaya, tomato, cucumber, and potato ranged from 82 to 120%, with relative standard deviations from 0 to 10% (n = 3 or 5). Analysis of apple, tomato, and papaya samples with field-incurred dithiocarbamate residues showed comparable results using both the traditional and the new reaction systems.
11600067	Beans are the core of the Latin American diet and contain iron and zinc. However, the bioavailability of these trace minerals from beans is low. The objective of this study was to determine if the bioavailability of iron and zinc could be improved with the use of fermentation and germination processing technologies. Black beans native to Costa Rica were grown hydroponically with either radioactive iron or zinc. The influence of fermentation and germination on iron and zinc bioavailability from intrinsically labeled infant weaning food products based on black beans and beans-rice was determined in rats. Mineral bioavailability was determined using whole-body (59)Fe retention for iron, and whole-body (65)Zn retention and incorporation of radiolabel into bone for zinc. Percent absorption of (59)Fe from fermented products ranged between 48.0 and 58.0. Percent absorption of (65)Zn ranged from 57.0 to 64.0. Fermentation did not increase iron bioavailability in rats fed fermented beans without rice. Fermentation of cooked beans significantly increased zinc retention. Germination significantly enhanced iron retention from cooked beans from 46 to 55% and from cooked beans-cooked rice from 34 to 48%. Germination significantly improved zinc absorption and retention from cooked beans without added rice.
11600068	Vegetable proteins are an integral part of infant weaning diets in Latin America. Protein quality in plant-based products, however, is constrained by amino acid composition and intrinsically present antinutritional factors. The goal of this study was to improve bean protein quality by utilizing fermentation and germination processing. The objectives were to determine if protein quality, as measured by Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) approved True Protein Digestibility (TPD) and Protein Digestibility-Corrected Amino Acid Scores (PDCAAS), of formulated bean-based weaning products could be improved upon fermentation and germination and if protein quality could be further improved when processed beans were combined with cooked rice. Results showed that the highest TPD and PDCAAS values were obtained for cooked germinated beans combined with rice. The TPD values for products ranged from 80 to 91%, and the PDCAAS values were 0.38-0.51. There was no significant increase (P < 0.05) of either TPD or PDCAAS values upon fermentation. Germination increased TPD of cooked bean products; this increase was not, however, accompanied by an increase in PDCAAS. When combined with rice, the PDCAAS values for all bean products improved significantly, thus supporting the concept of cereal-legume complementation. In conclusion, this study showed the range of PDCAAS in processed black bean and bean-rice infant weaning food products. The potential for incorporation of these products into the diets of weaning age Latin American children would, however, be confirmed only after validation with growth or metabolic balance studies in human infants.
11602742	Although hepatitis C virus E2 protein can bind to human cells by interacting with a putative viral receptor, CD81, the interaction alone is not sufficient to establish permissiveness for hepatitis C virus infection. Using an Epstein-Barr virus-based extrachromosomal replication system, we have screened through a human liver cDNA library and successfully identified a cDNA capable of supporting hepatitis C virus replication in an otherwise nonpermissive cell line. This cDNA encodes a protein exhibiting homology to a group of proteins derived from various evolutionarily distant species, including Oryza sativa submergence-induced protein 2A. The mRNAs encoding this factor are heterogeneous at the 5' ends and are ubiquitously expressed in multiple tissues, albeit in a very small amount. The longest mRNA contains an in-frame and upstream initiation codon and codes for a larger protein. This 5'-extended form of mRNA was detected in hepatocellular carcinoma, but not in normal liver tissue. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated that the hepatic factor was distributed evenly in cells, but occasionally formed aggregations in the peri- or intranuclear areas. In summary, we have identified a hepatic factor capable of supporting hepatitis C virus replication in an otherwise nonpermissive cell line. This factor belongs to a previously uncharacterized protein family. The physiological function of this protein awaits further study.
11603416	(1) Dehydration is the most immediate complication of acute diarrhoea. Infants still die by dehydration, or suffer severe repercussions. (2) Thirst is an early sign of dehydration in an infant. Other signs are delayed capillary filling, absence of tears, mucosal dryness and a "sickly" appearance. Fever or vomiting in the first 24 hours facilitate dehydration. Weight loss is the main clinical index of the degree of dehydration. (3) Oral rehydration with glucose-electrolyte solution is as effective as intravenous rehydration. It must start immediately dehydration occurs. Infants with signs of severe dehydration must be hospitalised. (4) Oral rehydration of a vomiting infant is feasible, by giving a teaspoonful of solution every one or two minutes. (5) A dehydrated infant rarely refuses oral rehydration solutions. (6) Beverages such as cola drinks are inappropriate for rehydration, as they contain too little sodium and are excessively hyperosmolar, which may worsen the diarrhoea. Rice gruel is better. (7) Antidiarrhoeal drugs do not prevent dehydration. (8) Feeding must be resumed as soon as dehydration has been corrected, as it shortens the course of diarrhoea. Continuing maternal breast-feeding reduces the severity of diarrhoea. Lactose-free "milk" has no demonstrated benefit. (9) Those in charge of an infant with diarrhoea must know how to prevent severe dehydration, which can occur very rapidly. Fluid intake must always be increased in an infant with diarrhoea. Sachets of powder for oral rehydration should be kept at home. Their prescription and dispensing should be accompanied by written instructions.
11604456	To understand the effect of water stress on the remobilization of prestored carbon reserves, the changes in the activities of starch hydrolytic enzymes and sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS) in the stems of rice (Oryza sativa L.) during grain filling were investigated. Two rice cultivars, showing high lodging-resistance and slow remobilization, were grown in the field and subjected to well-watered (WW, psi(soil)=0) and water-stressed (WS, psi(soil)=-0.05 MPa) treatments 9 d after anthesis (DAA) till maturity. Leaf water potentials of both cultivars markedly decreased during the day as a result of WS treatment, but completely recovered by early morning. WS treatment accelerated the reduction of starch in the stems, promoted the reallocation of prefixed (14)C from the stems to grains, shortened the grain filling period, and increased the grain filling rate. More soluble sugars including sucrose were accumulated in the stems under WS than under WW treatments. Both alpha- and beta-amylase activities were enhanced by the WS, with the former enhanced more than the latter, and were significantly correlated with the concentrations of soluble sugars in the stems. The other two possible starch-breaking enzymes, alpha-glucosidase and starch phosphorylase, showed no significant differences in the activities between the WW and WS treatments. Water stress also increased the SPS activity that is responsible for sucrose production. Both V(limit) and V(max), the activities of the enzyme at limiting and saturating substrate concentrations, were enhanced and the activation state (V(limit)/V(max)) was also increased as a result of the more significant enhancement of V(limit). The enhanced SPS activity was closely correlated with an increase of sucrose accumulation in the stems. The results suggest that the fast hydrolysis of starch and increased carbon remobilization were attributed to the enhanced alpha-amylase activity and the high activation state of SPS when the rice was subjected to water stress.
11605322
11605965	Antimicrobial peptides play a role in the immune systems of animals and plants by limiting pathogen infection and growth. The puroindolines, endosperm-specific proteins involved in wheat seed hardness, are small proteins reported to have in vitro antimicrobial properties. Rice, the most widely used cereal crop worldwide, normally does not contain puroindolines. Transgenic rice plants that constitutively express the puroindoline genes pinA and/or pinB throughout the plants were produced. PIN extracts of leaves from the transgenic plants reduced in vitro growth of Magnaporthe grisea and Rhizoctonia solani, two major fungal pathogens of rice, by 35 to 50%. Transgenic rice expressing pinA and/or pinB showed significantly increased tolerance to M. grisea (rice blast), with a 29 to 54% reduction in symptoms, and R. solani (sheath blight), with an 11 to 22% reduction in symptoms. Puroindolines are effective in vivo in antifungal proteins and could be valuable new tools in the control of a wide range of fungal pathogens of crop plants.
11606550	The resistance of rice to its bacterial blight pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) has both qualitative and quantitative components that were investigated using three near-isogenic line sets for four resistance (R) genes (Xa4, xa5, xa13, and Xa21) and 12 Xoo races. Our results indicate that these two resistance components of rice plants were associated with the properties of the R genes. The qualitative component of the R genes was reflected by their large effects against corresponding avirulent Xoo races. The quantitative component of the R genes was their residual effects against corresponding virulent races and their epistatic effects, which together could lead to high-level resistance in a race-specific manner. Our results revealed important differences between the different types of R genes. Two R genes, Xa4 and Xa21, showed complete dominance against the avirulent Xoo races and had large residual effects against virulent ones. They acted independently and cumulatively, suggesting they are involved in different pathways of the rice defensive system. The third R gene, xa5, showed partial dominance or additivity to the avirulent Xoo races and had relatively small but significant residual effects against the virulent races. In contrast, xa13 was completely recessive, had no residual effects against the virulent races, and showed more pronounced race specificity. There was a strong interaction leading to increased resistance between xa13 and xa5 and between either of them and Xa4 or Xa21, suggesting their regulatory roles in the rice defensive pathway(s). Our results indicated that high-level and durable resistance to Xoo should be more efficiently achieved by pyramiding different types of R genes.
11606560	Genetic study of the reproductive barriers between related species plays an essential role in understanding the process of speciation. We developed a new method for mapping all possible factors causing deviations from expected Mendelian segregation ratios in F(2) progeny, which substantially contribute to reproductive isolation. A multiresponse nonlinear regression analysis of the allele frequencies of the markers covering an entire genome in the F(2) population was performed to estimate the map position and intensity of the reproductive barriers on each chromosome. In F(2) plants from a cross between a Japonica variety of rice, Nipponbare, and an Indica variety, Kasalath, the deviations of allele frequencies were well explained by 33 reproductive barriers. Of these, 15 reproductive barriers affected the allele transmission rate through the gametophyte and in 9 of these 15 cases, an Indica allele was transmitted at a higher frequency than a Japonica allele. The other 18 reproductive barriers altered the viability of the zygote via its genotype. Two zygotic reproductive barriers showed overdominance and 5 showed underdominance. The most pronounced reproductive barrier, mapped at 62.3 +/- 0.4 cM on chromosome 3, transmitted the Indica allele by 94% through the male gametophyte. The accuracy of the barrier position in the regression analysis was confirmed by progeny analysis. The regression analysis proved to be a powerful tool for detecting and characterizing every reproductive barrier, irrespective of whether it acted on the male or female gametophyte or the zygote.
11607192	We have examined the biological activity of rice type I phytochrome (PI) in transgenic tobacco seedlings. The progeny of four independent transformants that expressed the rice PI gene segregated 3:1 for shorter hypocotyl length under dim white light (0.04 W/m2). By contrast, this phenotype was not observed either in the dark or under white light at higher intensity (6.0 W/m2). This suggests that the phenotype is dependent not only on light but also on light intensity. The increased light sensitivity cosegregated with the kanamycin-resistance marker as well as with the rice PI polypeptides, indicating that this phenotype is directly related to the expression of the transgene. The transgenic plants showing short hypocotyls exhibited a reduced growth rate throughout the elongation period, and the resulting shorter hypocotyl length was attributable to shorter epidermal cell length but not to reduced cell number. Furthermore, successive pulse irradiations with red light elicited short hypocotyls similar to those obtained under dim white light, and the effect was reversed by immediate far-red light treatment, providing a direct indication that the phenotype is caused by biologically active rice PI. Therefore, the far-red-absorbing form of the introduced rice PI appears to regulate the hypocotyl length of the transgenic tobacco plants through endogenous signal-transduction pathways. This assay system will be a powerful tool for testing the biological activity of introduced phytochrome molecules.
11607199	Transgenic plants have been regenerated from small cell groups of rice using a simpler, faster, and more efficient method than used previously (e.g., protoplast transformation and regeneration methods). Small cell groups of 50-100 cells were prepared from established suspension cultures of rice cell lines. Transformation of small cell groups with intact cell walls was carried out with a plasmid harboring the beta-glucuronidase gene and was mediated by polyethylene glycol. Assay of beta-glucuronidase activity indicated that the frequency of transformation was about 7%. beta-Glucuronidase activity was detected in the roots and leaves of plants regenerated from transformed calli. One or two copies of the beta-glucuronidase gene per cell were determined to be integrated into the rice chromosomal DNA isolated from transformed calli. This method of transformation and regeneration is widely applicable to both dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous plants, especially those varieties that are resistant to regeneration from protoplasts.
11607299	The fungal rice pathogen Magnaporthe grisea contains repetitive DNA sequences called MGR. We have used a DNA probe, MGR586, derived from these sequences and crosses between rice-pathogenic and non-rice-pathogenic laboratory strains of M. grisea to rapidly map genes in this organism. The rice-pathogenic strain contained 57 EcoRI restriction fragments that hybridize to the MGR586 probe; the other five non-rice-pathogenic parent strains contained a single MGR586 sequence. Genetic analysis of MGR segregation detected eight linkage groups and allowed the mapping of three pigmentation genes (Alb1, Rsy1, and Buf1), the mating type locus (Mat1), the nucleolar organizer (Rdn1), the Smol gene, and two restriction fragment length polymorphisms linked to Smol. Our results indicate that the MGR586 loci are randomly distributed about the M. grisea genome and permit the construction of a well-marked linkage map useful for future studies on genome organization and genetic analysis in M. grisea.
11607540	Small GTP-binding proteins play a critical role in the regulation of a range of cellular processes--including growth, differentiation, and intracellular transportation. Previously, we isolated a gene, rgp1, encoding a small GTP-binding protein, by differential screening of a rice cDNA library with probe DNAs from rice tissues treated with or without 5-azacytidine, a powerful inhibitor of DNA methylation. To determine the physiological role of rgp1, the coding region was introduced into tobacco plants. Transformants, with rgp1 in either sense or antisense orientations, showed distinct phenotypic changes with reduced apical dominance, dwarfism, and abnormal flower development. These abnormal phenotypes appeared to be associated with the higher levels of endogenous cytokinins that were 6-fold those of wild-type plants. In addition, the transgenic plants produced salicylic acid and salicylic acid-beta-glucoside in an unusual response to wounding, thus conferring increased resistance to tobacco mosaic virus infection. In normal plants, the wound- and pathogen-induced signal-transduction pathways are considered to function independently. However, the wound induction of salicylic acid in the transgenic plants suggests that expression of rgp1 somehow interfered with the normal signaling pathways and resulted in cross-signaling between these distinct transduction systems. The results imply that the defense signal-transduction system consists of a complicated and finely tuned network of several regulatory factors, including cytokinins, salicylic acid, and small GTP-binding proteins.
11613518	The history of modern pharmaceutical science and technology, from the second half of the 19th century to the end of World War II, is divided into nine sections for the purpose of discussion. 1. The European medical and pharmaceutical science and technology at the end of the 19th century is reviewed. Pharmacology, bacteriology and biochemistry were built in this period. 2. The Meiji Government accepted Western medicine and medical law and regulations in 1883. Consequently, the Japanese physician changed from Eastern (Kanpooi) to Western (Seiyooi). 3. Modern scientific and engineering education had been accepted in America, England, Germany, and France etc. Foreign scientists and engineers (Oyatoi-gai-kokujin) were educated by practice and theory. The Faculty of Engineering was established in the universities in Japan. This fact is one of the differences in the history of universities in Europe and America. 4. Pharmaceutical education in the Meiji period (1873-1911). Twenty-nine schools of pharmacy were built in this period. However, 20 schools of pharmacy had been closed. Pharmacy and pharmaceutical industry was not established in the Meiji era. 5. The profession of pharmacist in 1873-1944. The policy of medicine was changed by the Meiji Government in 1889, when Western physicians were allowed to prepare medicines for patients, and this practice continues today. Political and technological power of Japanese pharmacists was weak, so their role was not estimated. 6. Consequences of world War I, and the establishment of the pharmaceutical industry. The Sino-Japanese War (1894-95) and Russo-Japanese War (1904-05) were won fortunately. The first pharmaceutical company was established in 1885. At this times, many pharmaceutical manufacturing companies, which were converted from whole sale merchants, were built. Then started the manufacturing of commercial drugs. 7. Hygienic chemistry and some problems of public hygiene. The causes of diseses unique to Japan, such as beriberi (Katuke), were searched for in medical and agricultural laboratories. Dr. Suzuki discovered olizanine from rice bran, which was effective for deficiency of vitamin B1 disease. However, pharmaceutical scientists did not participate in this research. Hygienic and forensic chemistry were included in pharmaceutical departments. 8. Pharmaceutical scientific studies in Europe and Japan in the first half of the 20th century. The discovery of a drug for the treatment of syphilis by Ehrlich-Hata (1889), then chemotherapeutics were started. Adrenalin, the first isolated hormone, by Takamine (1900), after this time many hormones were discovered. The first Japanese pharmacists who studied abroad studied in Germany and came back to Japan. Then, they built the pharmaceutical sciences. Studies on natural products by chemistry and organic chemistry were started. 9. Pharmaceutical scientific and technology during 15 Years of War (1931-45). Since 1930, theoretical organic chemistry was developed in England and America. The discovery of chemotherapeutics and antibiotics (sulfonamides and penicillin) and studies on some vitamins and hormones proceeded during the 15 years of war (1931-45) at Tokyo and Kyoto Universities, and some institutes in China and Manchuria. Studies on anti-maralia, sulfonamides and penicillins were carried out.
11616089
11616729
11617003
11617054
11618835	Jahangir, after his accession on the 24th October, 1605 A.D. passed twelve orders, as we learn from his Memoirs (Tuzuk-e-Jahangiri). According to fifth order manufacturing and sale of Rice-Spirit and any kind of intoxicating drug were forbidded. The tenth order was for the foundation of free hospitals and appointment of physicians in all the great cities of the empire. We learn from Edward Terry who was in India from 1615-18 A.D. that the common diseases of the time included the venereal disease, which was possibly syphilis. In the twelfth year of his reign Jahangir passed orders prohibiting smoking tobacco. In Tuzuk we find that in the third year of his reign a doe was brought to Jahangir, it was milked. Here Jahangir says that the milk of a she-antelope was believed to be a remedy for asthma. In the eighth year of his reign he tried to test the milk of a tigress which was brought to his court. He, however, failed to get the milk of the tigress. Here he says that, it was heard from philosophers that the milk of a tigress was highly useful for brightening eyes. Jahangir's belief in spiritual help in curing diseases is reflected in the fact that in the ninth year of his reign when he fell ill, he took a vow that after recovery he would make holes in his ears to declare that he owed his very existence to Khawaja Muinu-ddin and so he was Khawaja's ear-bored slave. After recovery he did accordingly and wore a pearl in each of his ears. Shaykh Hasan or Hassu whose father and grand father were surgeions of Akbar's times was a surgeon and a childhood friend of Jahangir. Jahangir after his accession made him governor of Gujarat and gave him the title of Mukarrab Khan. Another physician Hakim Ali whome Akbar had once sent as ambassador to Bijapur and was made a commander of 700 on his return, was made commander of 2,000 by Jahangir.
11633158
11633240
11633241
11639040
11639839	This study, prepared with documentary sources from archives, focuses on one of the most serious health problems in Spain in the age of Enlightenment; that is, the pernicious endemics of malaria in the humid Mediterranean zones. Based on material from the General Archives of Simancas, the author studies the health polemic between the partisans and detractors of rice cultivation in the swampy bogs of the Turia and Jcar river areas. To these considerations on Valencia's agricultural expansion in the 18th century is added a documented study on malaria in the ancient kingdom of Valencia, a theme which underlies this historiographic contribution.
11641041	To evaluate the significance of cadmium (Cd) concentrations in blood (B-Cd) and hair (H-Cd) as an indicator of dose, a cross-sectional study was performed on 40 residents in a Cd-polluted area, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan, in 1996. In the study area, soil replacement of Cd-polluted rice fields ended in 1981. B-Cd and H-Cd were significantly higher in the study population than in the control subjects. B-Cd was positively correlated with urinary Cd (U-Cd) (Spearman r=0.50, P=0.06 for males and r=0.72, P=0.0001 for females), while H-Cd was weakly or moderately correlated with U-Cd. After adjustment for gender using logistic regression analysis, log(B-Cd) and log(U-Cd), but not log(H-Cd), were significantly associated with the prevalence of increased urinary beta2-microglobulin (P for trend <0.05). These findings suggest that B-Cd is a good indicator of cumulative dose many years after the reduction of environmental exposure to Cd. H-Cd may be weakly or moderately correlated with body burden.
11641069	Expansins were first identified as cell-wall-loosening proteins that, at least in part, mediate pH-dependent extension of the plant cell wall and growth of the cell. More recently, it has been realized that expansins belong to two protein families, the alpha-and beta-expansins, and that they appear to be involved in regulating, besides cell expansion, a variety of plant processes, including morphogenesis, softening of fruits, and growth of the pollen tube of grasses through the stigma and the style. The Arabidopsis genome contains 26 alpha-expansin genes and the rice genome at least 26. There are more beta-expansin genes in monocots than in dicots, at least 14 in rice and five in Arabidopsis. Expansin genes are differentially regulated by environmental and hormonal signals, and hormonal regulatory elements have been found in their promoter regions. An analysis of exon/intron structure led to the hypothesis that alpha-and beta-expansins evolved from a common ancestral gene.
11641453	Caspases are believed to play a key role in the delayed neuronal cell death observed in the rat brain after hypoxic-ischemic (HI) insult. Caspase inhibitors have been developed as antiapoptotic agents. Hippocampal damage after HI insult is strongly related to tissue temperature, and systemic hypothermia has been introduced clinically for brain protection. In this study, we examined the effects of a caspase inhibitor and systemic hypothermia on neuronal protection in the developing rat brain. Postnatal d 7 rat pups were subjected to the Rice model of hypoxia for 1 h. Systemic hypothermia was induced with a water bath at 29 degrees C. Before HI insult, a pan-caspase inhibitor, boc-aspartyl-(OMe)-fluoromethyl-ketone (BAF), was injected into the cerebral ventricle. The ipsilateral hippocampus was subjected to caspase assays and histologic assessment. The HI group at 37 degrees C (HI-37 degrees C) showed a peak of caspase-3 activity 16 h after insult. This activity was significantly reduced in the presence of BAF or hypothermia (HI-29 degrees C group, p < 0.05) or by the combination of HI-29 degrees C + BAF (p < 0.01 versus HI-37 degrees C). The number of neuronal cells in the ipsilateral hippocampal CA1 region in the HI-37 degrees C group was significantly decreased (62.9% versus control). The number of neuronal cells was maintained in the HI-37 degrees C + BAF group (82.7%), the HI-29 degrees C group (78.7%), and the combination group (95.2%) (p < 0.05 versus HI-37 degrees C). A combination of systemic hypothermia and BAF produced a strong protective effect against neuronal damage in the developing rat brain, along with a reduction in caspase-3 activity.
11642339	To see how different foods were selected depending on family-togetherness at breakfast and dinner, we investigated the meals of eight thousand primary and four thousand junior high school students by questionnaire. About 70% of primary school children but less than 50% of junior high school children ate breakfast with their family. The food, eaten by children who ate meals together with their family, took more time for cooking and was more traditional with rice as the staple. Food eaten by children who did not eat with their family lacked both preparation time and staple base. Family-togetherness affects the foods of primary school children more than those of junior high school students.
1166348	Fifteen colonies of Oncomelania hupensis were found near trails transecting the North Lore District, Napu Valley, Central Sulawesi. Habitats were in abandoned rice fields, uncultivated grazing areas for livestock, roadside ditches and, in one case, an actively worked rice field. Marsh grasses, Ischaemum barbatum and Laersia hexandra, were the most common plants in oncomelanid habitats. Other mollusks found in association with O. hupensis were Radix sp., Melanoides sp., Gyraulus sp., Idiopoma sp., Thiara sp., Opeas sp. and Indopyrgus sp. in that order of frequency. Schistosoma japonicum cercariae, as determined by mouse exposures, were shed from snails collected at four foci. In Sulawesi, O. hupensis and S. japonicum were found in high mountain valleys near, or above, 1,000 meters in elevation. Oncomelania hupensis, however, were not found in what appeared to be suitable habitats at lower elevations in the same drainage systems.
11665459	Urinary beta 2-microglobulin and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase have been recommended as sensitive indicators of renal dysfunction induced by cadmium. However, an increase in urinary calcium in early renal damage induced by cadmium has been reported both in humans and in animal experiments. To investigate the feasibility of using urinary calcium as a biomarker of renal dysfunction induced by cadmium, two areas were selected in this study, namely, a polluted area with a 3.71 mg/kg cadmium concentration in rice and a control area with a 0.07 mg/kg cadmium concentration. The total number of participants was 499, made up of 252 in the control group and 247 from the cadmium-polluted area. Urinary cadmium, urinary calcium, and zinc concentrations were measured by atomic absorption spectrometry, and beta 2-microglobulin and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase in urine were analyzed. The levels of urinary cadmium and urinary calcium in persons from the exposed area were significantly higher (P < 0.05) than those in the control area for both men and women, but there was no significant difference regarding urinary zinc between the two areas. A significant dose-response relationship between the prevalence of hypercalciuria and the excretion of urinary cadmium was observed, and a significantly increased prevalence of calciuria was found when excretion of urinary cadmium exceeded 2 micrograms/g creatinine. The findings were similar to those for excess urinary secretion of beta 2-microglobulin and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase. Because cadmium can affect Ca2+ uptake by tubular cells, with decreased renal Ca2+ reabsorption, calciuria may reflect tubular cell damage caused by cadmium. It was concluded that cadmium exposure can result in increased excretion of urinary calcium in a general population and that there is a significant dose-response relationship. Urinary calcium can therefore be used as a biomarker of renal dysfunction induced by cadmium.
11673635	We analyzed the function of a rice sucrose transporter, OsSUT1, by using antisense rice. There was no difference between antisense and wild-type plants in carbohydrate content and photosynthetic ability of the flag leaves in the vegetative growth stage, suggesting that OsSUT1 may not play an important role in carbon metabolism, at least in these materials.
1167378	The digestibility of various starches has been studied in normal infants of different ages. During balance periods of 3 days, while the infants were receiving known dietary quantities of the starch to be tested, the fecal content of lactic acid, glucose, dextrins, and starch was measured. After the first year of life, children were able to absorb almost completely 170 gm/m2 of body surface of cooked wheat starch given in the form of biscuit or macaroni. A lower absorption coefficient was found for potato starch given in the form of biscuit. Cooked wheat, tapioca, corn, rice, and potato starch in amounts of 45 and 85 gm/m2/day, respectively, for 1- and 3-mo-old infants, were almost completely absorbed. In 1-mo-old infants larger amounts (110 gm/m2/day) of cooked rice starch were well tolerated; it should therefore be possible to provide a large part of the carbohydrate requirements of infants from the first month of life with cooked starches.
11674612	The CuCN-catalyzed addition of 2-propenylmagnesium bromide to (threo-2R,3S,5alpha,22R,23R,24S)-23,24-epoxy-6,6-(ethylenedioxy)-2,3-(isopropylidenedioxy)-26,27-dinorcholestan-22-ol (11a) afforded the corresponding Delta(25)-22,23-diol 12. This was converted into 25-methoxybrassinolide (7) by protection as the 22,23-acetonide 13, oxymercuration in methanol, Baeyer-Villiger oxidation, and deprotection. Similarly, the addition of pyridinium poly(hydrogen fluoride) to 13 and deprotection afforded 25-fluorocastasterone (8), which was converted into 25-fluorobrassinolide (9) by Baeyer-Villiger oxidation. Treatment of threo-epoxide 11a with Me(2)NMgBr, followed by Baeyer-Villiger oxidation of the corresponding tetraacetate and saponification, provided 25-azabrassinolide (10). Epoxide 11a is therefore a versatile intermediate for the synthesis of side-chain analogues of brassinolide (1). 25-Methoxybrassinolide (7) displayed strong activity in the rice leaf lamina inclination bioassay, which was significantly enhanced by the simultaneous application of an auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Thus, the presence of a 25-methoxy substituent, like that of the previously reported 25-hydroxy group in the 24-epibrassinolide series, yields a molecule with potent biological activity. On the other hand, 8-10 showed no bioactivity with or without IAA. This suggests that either the 25-fluoro and 25-aza substituents interfere with binding to a putative brassinosteroid receptor or that they prevent the in vivo enzymatic oxidation at C-25 that is required for bioactivity.
11675493	Miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are widespread and abundant in both plant and animal genomes. Despite the discovery and characterization of many MITE families, their origin and transposition mechanism are still poorly understood, largely because MITEs are nonautonomous elements with no coding capacity. The starting point for this study was P instability factor (PIF), an active DNA transposable element family from maize that was first identified following multiple mutagenic insertions into exactly the same site in intron 2 of the maize anthocyanin regulatory gene R. In this study we report the isolation of a maize Tourist-like MITE family called miniature PIF (mPIF) that shares several features with PIF elements, including identical terminal inverted repeats, similar subterminal sequences, and an unusual but striking preference for an extended 9-bp target site. These shared features indicate that mPIF and PIF elements were amplified by the same or a closely related transposase. This transposase was identified through the isolation of several PIF elements and the identification of one element (called PIFa) that cosegregated with PIF activity. PIFa encodes a putative protein with homologs in Arabidopsis, rice, sorghum, nematodes, and a fungus. Our data suggest that PIFa and these PIF-like elements belong to a new eukaryotic DNA transposon superfamily that is distantly related to the bacterial IS5 group and are responsible for the origin and spread of Tourist-like MITEs.
11675592	Transcripts of land plant chloroplast genomes undergo C-to-U RNA editing. Systematic search disclosed 31 editing sites in tobacco, 27 in maize, and 21 in rice. Based on these identified sites, potential editing sites have been predicted in the transcripts from four angiosperm chloroplast genomes which have been completely sequenced. Most RNA editing events occur in internal codons, which result in amino-acid substitutions. The initiation codon AUG was found to be created from ACG by RNA editing in the transcripts from rpl2, psbL, and ndhD genes. Comparison of editing patterns raises a possibility that many editing sites were acquired in the evolution of angiosperms.
11676459	Controlled environments (CE) in which light, carbon dioxide, and nutrients are regulated are known to affect the chemical composition of plants. Controlled Ecological Life Support System (CELSS) environments are required for a Mars or lunar base where food resupply is both impractical and risky. Astronauts in a CELSS would need to grow and process edible biomass into foods. The complete nature of the changes in chemical composition of CE-grown plants is unknown but must be determined to ensure a safe and nutritionally adequate diet. In this article, we report the changes that occur in free and peptide-bound amino acids (AA) of select CELSS crops (rice, wheat, and soybean) grown in the field or in CE. The nonnitrate nonprotein nitrogen fraction was extracted and then analyzed for free and peptide AA. For grain or seeds, AA levels tended to increase from field to CE conditions; however, for vegetative material, AA levels remained the same or decreased from field to CE conditions. As such compositional changes are identified, researchers will be better able to design safe and nutritious diets for astronauts while minimizing needed energy and other resources.
11676472	Plant elongation factor EF-1 consists of four subunits (EF-1alphabetabeta'gamma). EF-1alpha. GTP catalyses the binding of aminoacyl-tRNA to the ribosome. EF-1beta and EF-1beta' catalyze the GDP/GTP exchange on EF-1alpha. GDP. However, the function of EF-1gamma, a subunit detected in eukaryotes, but not in prokaryotes remained unknown. This report demonstrates that rice EF-1betabeta'gamma and recombinant EF-1gamma possess glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity. The EF-1betabeta'gamma- or EF-1gamma-dependent GST activity is about one-fiftieth of the rice GST activity. The Km values of EF-1betabeta'gamma, EF-1gamma, and rice GST for glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are of about the same order. Although recombinant EF-1gamma is heat labile, active EF-1gamma was obtained by purifying it in the presence of 20% glycerol.
11677788	The composition of 12 commercial feeds for mynah birds was analysed, with special attention being paid to the iron content. To prevent iron overload, the iron content of such diets should be maximally 5 mg/MJ, which is equivalent to 100 mg iron/kg if the commercial diet is the sole food source. Only three of the 12 feeds met this requirement. In all feeds the iron content was minimally three times higher than the recently suggested iron requirement of 25 mg/kg. In general, the total iron intake is not reduced sufficiently by providing cooked rice or fruit together with commercial feeds.
